 
 
Hubbard
Imag. Voy.
•A\ -
1 53*2—
 
 
 
FRONTISPIECE,
 
ROBINSON CRUSOE
See Page 6.
THE
LIFE
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF
ROMIJVSGJV CRUSOE?
OF
gotft, partner;
Who lived Eight and Twenty Years all alone in anuimiJiabited
Island on the Coast of America, 7iear the Mouth of
the Great River Oroonoque;
HAVING BEEN
Cast on Shore by Shipwreck*
WHEREIN
ALL THE MEN PERISHED BUT HIMSELF:
With an Account how he was at last strangely delivered by
Pirates-
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
 
Adorned with Cuts.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR HOULSTON AND SON,
65, Paternoster-Row; and at Wellington,Salop.
1832.
PREFACE.
Fevw the story of any private man's adventures
JL in the world were worth making public, and
were acceptable when published, the Editor of this
account thinks this will be so.
The ivonders of this man's life exceed all that (he
thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one man
being scarcely capable of a greatei* variety.
The story is told with modesty, with serious-
ness, and icith a religious application of events to
the uses to which wise men always apply them,
viz. to the instruction of others by example, and to
justify and honour the wisdom of Providence in all
the variety of our circumstances, let them happen
how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just history
of fact; neither is there any appearance of fiction
in it: and though he is well aware there are wiany,
who, on account of the very singular preservations
the author met with, will give it the name of a ro-
mance; yet, in whichever of these lights it shall be
viewed, he imagines that the improvement of it, as
well to the diversion as to the instruction of the read-
, er, will be the same; and, as such, he thinks, with-
out further compliment to the world, he does them a
great service in the publication.
 
IWAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country,
my father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled
first at Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise,
and, leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York,
from whence he had married my mother, whose re-
lations were named Robinson, a very good family
in that country, and from whom I was called Ro-
binson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corruption
of words in England, we are now called, nay, we
call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so
my companions always called me.
1 had two elder brothers, one of which was a lieu-
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in
Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous Co-
lonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near
Dunkirk against the Spaniards: what became of
my second brother, I never knew, any more than
my father or mother knew of what was become of
me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early
with rambling thoughts: my father, who was very
ancient, had given me a competent share of learning,
as far as house-education and a country free-scliool
generally goes, and designed me for the law; but I
would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea,
and my inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mo-
A 3
6
THE LIFE OF
tber and other friends, that there seemed to be some-
thing fatal in that propensity of nature tending di-
rectly to the life of misery which was to befal me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was
my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this sub-
ject: he asked me what reasons, more than a mere
wandering inclination, I had for leaving his house
and my native country, where I might be well in-
troduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune
by application and industry, with a life of ease
and pleasure. He told me it was for men, either of
desperate fortunes, or such whose affluence ena-
bled them to attempt it, who went abroad upon
adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make them-
selves famous in undertakings of a nature out of
the common road: that these things were all either
too far above me, or too far below me; that mine
was the middle state, or the upper station of low
life, which he had found by long experience was
the best state in the world, the most suited to hu-
man happiness, not exposed to the miseries and
hardships, the toil and sufferings of the labouring
part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the
pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the great. He
told me, I might judge of the happiness of this
state, by this one thing, that this was the state of
life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of
being born to great things, and wished they had
been placed in the middle of the two extremes, be-
tween the mean and the great; that the wise man
gave his testimony to this as the just standard of
7
true felicity, when he prayed to have neither pover-
ty nor riches.
He then pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor
to precipitate myself into miseries which the station
of life I was born in seemed to have provided a-
gainst; and that if I was not easy and happy in the
world, it must be my own fanlt that must hinder it,
that he should have nothing to answer for, having
thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt.
But that if I would stay and settle at home, he
would do every thing in his power for me. He con-
cluded with teiliug me, I had my elder brother for
an example, to whom he had used the same persua-
sions to keep from going into the Low Country wars,
but could not prevail, his young desires prompting
him to run into the army, where he was killed; and
though he would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to say, that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me, and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his advice when there might be none to assist in my
recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
proved truly prophetic, that the tears ran down his
face very plentifully, and especially when he men-
tioned my brother who was killed; and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none
to assist me, he was so moved, that he broke off
the discourse, and told me, his heart was so full, he
could say no more.
1 was sincerely affected with this advice, as in-
deed who could be otherwise 1 and I resolved not
to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at
8
THE LIFE OF
home according to my father's desire. But, alas!
a few days wore it all oft"; and I took my mother,
at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter
than ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were
so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
should never settle to any thing with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had
better give me his consent than force me to go with-
out it; that I was now eighteen years old, which
was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk
to an attorney; and that if she would speak to my
father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came
home again and did not like it, I would go no more,
and I would promise by a double diligence to re-
cover that time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak
to my father upon any such subject; that for her
part she would not have so much hand in my de-
struction; and I should never have it to say, that
my mother was willing when my father was not.
It was almost a year after this, being one day at
Hull, where I went casually, and without any de-
sign of making an elopement, I met one of my com-
panions who was going by sea to London, in his
father's ship, and pressing me to go with them, tell-
ing me, it should cost me nothing for my passage,
I consulted neither father nor mother, nor so much
as sent them word, but leaving them to hear of it
as they might, and in an ill hour, God knows, on
the first of September, 1651, I went on board a
ship bound for London. Never any young adven-
turer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or con-
tinued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner
out of the Humber, but there arose a violent storm>
9
and as I had never been at sea before, I was most
inexpressibly sick in body and terrified in mind: I
thought the judgments of God deservedly followed
me for my disobedience to my parents. It was then
only I called to mind the good advice of my father,
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of
life; and if it pleased God to set me on dry land
once more, I would, like a true repenting prodigal,
go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to
it: however, I was very grave for all that day, be-
ing still a little sea-sick; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and
a charming fine evening followed; the sun went
down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning:
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the
most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no
more sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking with won-
der upon the sea that was rough and terrible the
day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant
in so little time after. And now, lest my good re-
solutions should continue, my companion, who had
indeed enticed me away, comes to me, "Well, Bob/'
says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, " how do
you do after it? I warrant you were frighted,
wa'n't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of
wind?" "A capful d'you call it?" said 1, "'twas
a terrible storm," "A storm, you fool!" replies
he, "do you call that a storm? why it was nothing
at all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and
10
THE LIFE OF
we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that;
but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let
us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that;
d'ye see what charming weather 'tis now'?" To
make short this sad part of my story, we went the
way of all sailors, the punch was made, and I was
made drunk with it, and in that one night's wicked-
ness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions
for the future. I found indeed some intervals of
reflection, and serious thoughts did, as it were, en-
deavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
them off, and roused myself from them as from a
distemper, and applying myself to drinking and
company, I had in live or six days got as complete
a victory over conscience as any young fellow, that
resolved not to be troubled with it, could desire.
But I was to have another trial for it still; and Pro-
vidence seemed resolved to leave me entirely without
excuse. For if I would not take this for a deliver-!
ance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us would con-
fess both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into
Yarmouth Roads; the wind being contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to anchor,
and lay eight clays, during which time a great many
ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as
the common harbour where the ships might wait
for a wind for the river Thames.
The wind, after we had lain four or five days,
blew very hard; but the Roads being reckoned as
good as a harbour, our men were unconcerned,
and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but
11
spent the time in rest and mirth. On the eighth
day in the morning, the wind increased, and we had
all hands to work to strike our top-masts, and
make every thing snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea
went very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle
in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had come home; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet anchor: so that we
rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables veer-
ed out to the best end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the
faces even of the seamen themselves. The master,
though vigilant in the business of preserving the
ship, yet, as he went in and out of his cabin by me,
I could hear him say softly to himself several times,
"Lord be merciful, we shall be all lost, we shall
be all undone!" and the like. At this I was dread-
fully frightened. I got up out of my cabin, and
looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw:
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. When I could look
about, I could see nothing but distress round us:
two ships, that rid near us, we found had cut their
masts by the board, being deeply loaden; and our
men cried out, that a ship which rid about a mile
a-head of us was foundered. Two more ships be-
ing driven from their anchors, were run out of the
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not
a mast standing.
Towards evening the mate and the boatswain beg-
ged the master of our ship to let them cut away the
fore-mast, to which he was very unwilling: but the
boatswain protesting to hira, that if he did not, the
12
THE LIFE OF
ship would founder, he consented; and when they
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were
obliged to cut it away also, and make a clear
deck.
The storm continued with such fury, that the
seamen themselves acknowledged they had never
known a worse. We had a good ship, but she
was deep loaden, and wallowed in the sea, so that
the seamen every now and then cried out she would
founder. It was my advantage, in one respect,
that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I enquired. Still the storm increased, and I
saw what is not often seen, the master, the boat-
swain, and some others more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, expecting every moment that the
ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of
the night, and under ail the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down on purpose to
see, cried out we had sprung a leak; another said
there was four feet water in the hold. Then all
hands were called to the pump.* At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and
I fell backwards upon the side of my bed, where 1
sat in the cabin. However, the men roused me,
and told me, that I that was able to do nothing be-
fore was as well able to pump as another; at which
I stirred up, and went to the pump and worked
very heartily. While this was doing, the master
seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea,
gave orders to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I,
who knew nothing of what that meant, was so sur-
prised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so
surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was
a time when every body had his own life to think
of, nobody minded me, or what was become of
me; but another man stept up to the pump, and,
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, think-
ing I had been dead; and it was a great while be-
fore I came to myself.
We continued firing guns till a light ship, who
had rid it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out
to our assistance. It was with the utmost hazard
the boat came near, but it was impossible for us to
get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side, till at last, the men rowing very heartily, and
venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which
they, after great labour and hazard, got hold of,
and we hauled them close under our stern, and got
all into their boat.
We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship when we saw her sink, and
then I understood for the first time what was meant
by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen
told me she was sinking; for they rather put me
into the boat than that I might be said to go in;
my heart was as it were dead within me, partly
with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet la-
bouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see, when our boat mounted the waves,
a great many people running along the shore to as-
sist us when we should come near; but we made
but slow way towards the shore, nor were we able
to reach it, till, being past the light-house at Win-
B
14
THE LIFE OF
terton, the shore falls off to the westward towards
Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the vio-
lence of the wind. Here we got in, and (though
not without much difficulty) got all safe on shore,
and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where,
as unfortunate men, we were used with great hu-
manity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular mer-
chants and owners of ships, and had money given
us sufficient to carry us either to London, or back
to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I should have been hap-
py, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Savi-
our's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me;
for hearing the ship I went away in, was cast away
in Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he
had any assurance that I was not drowned.
My companion, who had helped to harden me
before, who was the master's son, was now less for-
ward than I: the first time he spoke to me after we
were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
days, for we were separated in the town to different
quarters, it appeared his tone was altered; and look-
ing very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked
me how I did, and telling his father who I was, and
that I had come this voyage only for a trial, in or-
der to go further abroad; his father, turning to me
with a very grave and concerned lone, "Young
man," says he, "you ought never to go to sea aiiy
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token that you are not to be a seafaring man."
"Why, Sir," said I, "will you go to sea no more?"
"That is another case," said he; <tf it is my calling,
and therefore my duty, but as you made this voy-
15
age for a trial, you* see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect, if you persist:
perhaps this has all befallen us on your account,
like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues
he, "what are you? and on what account did you
go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my sto-
ry; at the end of which he burst out with a strange
kind of passion. "What had I done/7 says he,
"that such an unhappy wretch should come into
my ship; I would not set my foot in the same ship
with thee again for a thousand pounds I" He af-
terwards talked very gravely to me, exhorted me to
go back to my father, telling me 1 might see a visible
hand of Heaven against me. <c And, young man/'
said he, "depend upon it, if you do not go back,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's
words are fulfilled upon you."
We parted soon after: for I made him little an-
swer, and saw him no more; which way he went,
I know not. As for me, having some money in my
pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there,
as well as on the road, had many struggles with
myself, what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home or go to sea.
As to my going home, shame opposed the best
motions that offered to my thoughts; and it imme-
diately occurred to me how I should be laughed at
among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to
see, not only my father and mother, but every body
else. From whence 1 have since often observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper
of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason
which ought to guide them in such cases: they are
not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
THE LIFE OF
not ashamed of the action for which they ought
justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be es-
teemed wise men.
That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the
wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune,
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to
the entreaties and even the command of my father;
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to
my view: and I went on board a vessel bound to
the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call
it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with me.
I first got acquainted with the master of a ship who
had been on the coast of Guinea; and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go
again: and taking a fancy to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at that time, hear-
ing me say I had a mind to see the world, he told
me, if 1 would go the voyage with him, I should be
at no expence; I should be his messmate and his
companion; and it" I could carry any thing with me,
I should have all the advantage of it that the trade
would admit; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and'
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him,
and carried a small adventure with me, which, by
17
the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain,
I increased very considerably; for I carried about
401. in such toys and trifles as the captain directed
me to buy. This 401. I had mustered together by
the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor-
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father,
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as
that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of
the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take
an observation, and, in short, to understand some
things that were needful to be understood by a
sailor: for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took delight to learn. And this voyage made me
both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home
five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adven-
ture, which yielded me in London, at my return,
almost 3001. and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes: I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
calenture by the excessive heat of the climate;
our principal trading being upon the coast, from
the latitude of 15 degrees North even to the line
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got tl^e
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
13
THE LIFE OF
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
carry quite 1001. of my new gained wealth, so that
I had 200L left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage. Our ship mak-
ing her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those islands and the African shore, was sur-
prised early in the morning by a Turkish rover of
Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she
could make. We crowded also as much canvas as
our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get
clear: but finding the pirate gain upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake,
just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stem,
as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear
on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him,
which made him sheer off again, after returning our
fire, pouring in also his small shot from near 200
men which he had on board. However, we had not
a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-
selves; but laying us on board the next time upon
our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the decks and rigging. We plied them with small
shot, halfpikes, powder-chests, and such like, and
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our ^story, our ship
being disabled, and three of our men killed, and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield; and
were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belong-
ing to the Moors.
19
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended; nor was I carried up the coun-
try, to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover, as
his proper prize, and made his slave, being young
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this sur-
prising change of my circumstances, from a mer-
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed: and now I looked back upon my father's
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miser-
able and have none to relieve me, which I thought
now was so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had
overtaken me, and I was undone without redemp-
tion. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery
I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel
of this story.
As my new master had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me
with him to sea again, believing that it would some
time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portuguese man of war, and that then I should
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon
taken away: for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
drudgery of slaves about his house; and when he
came home again from his cruize, he ordered me
to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship. Here I
meditated nothiug but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it; but found no way that
had the least probability in it.
After about two years, an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thoughts of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head.
My master lying at home longer than usual, with-
20
THE LIFE OF
out fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for
want of money; he used constantly, once or twice
a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair,
to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road
a fishing; and as he always took me and a young
Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him
very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catch-
ing fish, insomuch, that sometimes he would send
me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth
the Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish
of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing with
him on a cairn morning, a fog rose so thick, that
though we were not half a league from the shore
we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not whi-
ther, or which way, we laboured all day, and all the
next night; and when the morning came, we found
we had pulled off to sea, instead of pulling in for
the shore, and that we were at least two leagues
from the land: however we got well in again, with
a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the
wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning;
and we were all very "hungry.
But our master, warned by this disaster, resolved
to take more care of himself for the future; and
having by him the long-boat of our English ship,
he resolved not to go a fishing any more without
a compass and some provision: so he ordered the
carpenter of his ship, who was also an English slave,
to build a little state room or cabin in the middle
of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer and haul home the main-
sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we call
a shoulder-of-mutton sail; and the boom gibbcd
21
over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and
low, and had in it a room for him to lie, with a
slave or two, and a table to eat off, with small lock-
ers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he
thought fit to drink; particularly his bread, rice,
and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him,
he never went out without me. It happened that
he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for
pleasure, or for fish, with two or three Moors of
some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
provided extraordinarily: and had therefore sent
on board the boat over night, a larger store of pro-
visions than usual; and had ordered me to get
ready three fuzees with powder and shot, which
were on board his ship; for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to ac-
commodate his guests; when my master came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put off go-
ing, and ordered me, with the man and boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some
fish, for that his friends were to sup at his house;
and commanded that as soon as 1 had got some
fish, I should bring it home: all which I prepared
to do.
At this moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts; for now I found I was
likely to have a little ship at my command: and
my master being gone, I prepared to furnish my-
self, not for fishing-business, but for a voyage;
though 1 knew not, neither did I so much as con-
22
THE LIFE OF
sider, whither I should steer; for any where to get
out of that place was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our sub-
sistence on board; for I told him we must not pre-
sume to eat of our master's bread. He said, that
was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk, or
biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh wa-
ter, into the boat. I knew where my master's case
of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize; and I con-
veyed them into the boat, while the Moor was on
shore, as if they had been there before, for our
master: I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet,
a saw, and a hammer; all which were of great use
to us afterwards, especially the wax to make can-
dies. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into: his name was Ismael, whom
they call Moloy; so I called to him, "Moloy," said
I, "our master's guns are on board the boat: can
you not get a little powder and shot? perhaps we
may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlieus)
for ourselves; for I know he keeps the gunners
stores in the ship." "Yes," says he, "I'll bring
some." Accordingly, he brought a great leather
pouch, which held about a pound and half of pow-
der, or rather more; and another with shot, that
had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat: at the same time I had found
some powder of my master's in the great cabin,
with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty; pouring what was
in it into another: and thus furnished with every
23
thing needful, we sailed out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is at the entrance of the port,
knew who we were, and took no notice of us; and
we were not above a mile out of the port before we
hauled in our sail, and sat us down to fish. The
wind blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary
to my desire; for had it blown southerly I had
been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at
least reached the bay of Cadiz; but my resolu-
tions were, blow which way it would, I would go
from that horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to fate.
After we had fished some time, and caught no-
thing, (for when I had fish on my hook, I would not
pull them up, that he might not see them;) I said
to the Moor, "This will not do, our master will
not be thus served; we must stand further oiF."
He, thinking no harm, agreed; and being at the
head of the boat, set the sails; and, as I had the
helm, I ran the boat out near a league further, and
then brought her to, as if I would fish; when, giv-
ing the boy the helm, I stept forward to where the
Moor was; and, making as if I stooped for some-
thing behind him, I took him by surprise, and toss-
ed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose im-
mediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to
me, begging to be taken in, and told me he would
go all over the world with me. He swam so strong
after the boat that he would have reached me very
quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I
stept into the cabin, and-fetching one of the fowl-
ing-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I
had clone him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I
would do him none: "but," said I, "you swim
well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
24
THE LIFE OF
calm, make the best of your way to the shore, and
# I will do you no harm; but if you come near the
boat I'll shoot you through the head; for I am re-
solved to have my liberty/' So he turned himself
about and swam for the shore; and I make no
doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an
excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this
Moor with me, and have drowned the boy; but
there was no venturing to trust him. When he was
gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to
me, I'll make you a great man; but if you will not
stroke your face to be true to me, (that is, swear by
Mahomet and his fathers beard,) 1 must throw you
into the sea too." The boy smiled, in my face, and
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him;
and swore to be faithful, and go all over the world
with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat ra-
ther stretching to windward, that they might think
me gone towards the straits-mouth, (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been
supposed to do; for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward; to the truly Bar-
barian coast, where whole nations of Negroes were
sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy
us; where we could not go on shore, but we
should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind?)
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly South and
by East, bending my course a little towards the
East, that I might keep in with the shore: and
25
having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth qui-
et sea, I made such sail, that I believe by the next
day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first
made the land, I could not be less than one hun-
dred and fifty miles South of Sallee; quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the
Moors, and the dreadful apprehensions I had of
falling into their hands, that I would not stop, or
go on shore, or come to an anchor, (the wind con-
tinuing fair,) till I had sailed in that manner five
days; and then the wind shifting to the southward,
I concluded, that if any vessel was in chase of
me, they would now give over: so I ventured to
make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the
mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or where;
neither what latitude, what country, what nation,
nor what river: I neither saw, nor desired to see,
any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh
water. We came into this creek in the evening,
resolving to swim on shore as soou as it was dark,
and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such a dreadful noise of
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures,
we knew not of what kind, that the poor boy was
ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go
on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, " then I
won't; but it may be, we may see men by day,
who will be as bad to us as those lions." "Then
we may give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, "make'them run away;" such English
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever, 1 was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram out of our masters case of bottles
c
THE LIFE OF
to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was
good, and I took it: we dropped our little anchor;
and lay still all night, for we did not sleep; and in
two or three hours we saw great creatures, we
knew not what to call them, of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore, and run into the water,
wallowing and washing for the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such hideous howlings
and yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so
was I too: but we were much more frighted when
we heard one of these mighty creatures come
swimming towards our boat; we could not see
him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be
a monstrous, huge, and furious beast. Xury said
it was a lion, and it might be for ought I know.
Poor Xury cried out to me to weigh the anchor
and row away. "No," says I, " Xury, we can slip
our cable with a buoy to it, and go to sea: they
cannot follow us far," I had no sooner said so,
but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) with-
in two oars length, which something surprised me:
however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door,
and taking up my gun, tired at him; upon which
he immediately turned about, and swam towards
the-shore again.
But it was not possible to describe the horrid
noise, and hideous cries and howlings, that were
raised as well upon the edge of the shore, as high-
er within the country, upon the noise or report of
the gun, a thing 1 have reason to believe those crea-
tures had never heard before. This convinced
me that there was no going on shore for us in the
night upon that coast; and how to venture on
shore in the day was another question too; for, to
27
have fallen into the hands of any of the savages,
had been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of
lions and tigers; at least we were equally appre-
hensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on
shore somewhere or other for water, for we had not
a pint left in the boat; when or where to get it
was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go
on shore with one of the jars, he would find if
there was any water, and bring some to me. I
asked him, why he would go; why I should not
go, and he stay in the boat. The boy answered
with so much affection, that he made me love him
ever after: says he, " If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go way." <( Well, Xury," said I, " we will
both go, and if the wild mans come, we will kill
theni; they shall eat neither of us." So I gave
Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out
of our master's case of bottles, which I mentioned
before, and we hauled the boat in as near to the
shore as we thought proper, and waded on shore,
carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for
water.
1 did not care to go out of sight of the boat,
fearing the coming of canoes with savages down
the river: but the boy, seeing a low place, about
a mile up the country, rambled to it, and by and
by I saw him come running towards me. I thought
he was pursued by some savage, or frighted by
some wild beast, and I ran towards him to help
him; but when 1 came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a
creature he had shot, like a hare, but different in
colour, and longer legs; however, we were glad of
it; and it was very good meat; but the great joy
THE LIFE OF
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had
found good water, and seen no wild mans*
But we found afterwards, that we need not take
such pains for water; for a little higher up the
creek where we were, we found the water fresh
when the tide was out, which flows but a little way
up: so we filled our jars, and feasted on the hare
we had killed, and prepared to go on our way,
having seen no footsteps of any human creature in
that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take
an observation, to know what latitude we were in,
1 could not expect easily to find any of the islands.
My hope was, that if I stood along this coast, till 1
came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels that would relieve and
take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where
I now was, must be that country which, lying be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild
beasts: the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone
further South, for fear of the Moors; and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, on account of its
barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it, because
of the prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbour there;
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only,
where they go like an army, two or three thousand
men at a time.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh wa-
ter, after we had left this place; and once in par-
29
ticular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of land, which was pret-
ty high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay
still to go further in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to
me, and tells me, that we had best go further off
the shore; "for," says he, "look yonder lies a
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a
dreadful monster indeed; for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the
shade of the hill, that appeared to hang a little over
him. "Xury," said I, "you shall go on shore and
kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, "Me
kill! he eat me one mouth 1" one mouthful he
meant. I said no more to the boy, but bade
him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket bore, and loaded it with a good
charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it
down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets,
and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim
i could with the first piece to have shot him in the
head; but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slug hit his leg about the knee,
and broke the bone. He started up, growling at
first; but finding his leg broke, fell down again,
and then got upon three legs, and gave the most
hideous roar that I ever heard. I was a little sur-
prised that I had not hit him on the head; however,
I took up the second piece immediately, and, though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him in
the headj and had the pleasure to see him drop;
and making but little noise, he lay struggling tor
life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me
c 3
30
THE LIFE OF
let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I. So the
boy jumped into the water, and taking the little
gun in one hand, swam to the shore with the other
hand; and coming close to the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the
head again, which quite dispatched him.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no
food; and I was very sorry to lose three charges of
powder and shot upon a creature that was good for
nothing to us. However, Xury said, he would
have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xu-
ry?" said I; "Me cut off his h^ad;" said he.
However, Xury could not cut off his head; but he
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was
a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might, one way or other, be of some
value to us; and I resolved to take off his skin, if
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him:
but Xury was much the better workman at it, for
I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us up
(both) the whole day; but at last we got off his
hide, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the
sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it
afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward
continually for ten or twelve days, Jiving very spa-
ringly on our provisions, which began to abate very
much; and going no oftener in to the shore than
we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in
this was, to make the river Gambia or Senegal, in
hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I
did not, I knew not what course I should take, for
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single
31
point, either that I must meet with some ship, or
must perish.
I now began to see that the laud was inhabited;
and in two or three places as we sailed by, we saw
people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
could also perceive they were quite black, and
stark naked.
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said
to me, "No go, no go!" However, I hauled in
nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and I
found they ran along the shore by me a good way.
I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance, and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim; so I kept my
distance, but talked with them by signs as well as
I could, and particularly made signs for something
to eat. They beckoned to me "to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this I
lowered the top of my sail, and lay by; and two
of them ran up into the country, and in less than
half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dried flesh, and some corn, such as is the
produce of their country; but we neither knew
what the one or the other was; however, we were
willing to accept it. But how to come at it was.
our next dispute; for I was not for venturing on
shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us:
but they took a safe way for us all; for they brought
it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board,
and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends: but an opportu-
32
THE LIFE OF
uity offered that very instant, to oblige them won-
derfully; for while we were lying by the shore,
came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other
(as we took it) with great fury, from the mountains
towards the sea. Whether it was the male pursu-
ing the female, or whether they were in sport or in
rage, we could not tell, any more than we could
tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe
it was the latter: because, in the first place, those
ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night;
and, in the second place, we found the people were
terribly frighted, especially the women. The man
that had the lance or dart did not fiy from them,
but the rest did. However, as the two creatures
ran directly into the water, they did not seem to
offer to fall upon the Negroes, but plunged them-
selves into the sea, and swam about as if they had
come for their diversion. At last one of them be-
gan to come nearer our boat than at first I expect-
ed: but I lay ready for him; for I had loaded my
gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly
within my reach, 1 fired, and shot him directly in
the head: he sunk immediately down into the wa-
ter, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down
as if he was struggling for life. He immediately
made to the shore; but between the wound, which
was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It,is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures 'at the noise and the fire of my
gun; some of them were ready even to die for fear,
and fell down, as if dead, with terror. But when
they saw the creature dead and sunk into the wa-
ter, and that I made signs to them to come to the
shore, they took heart, and came, and began to
search for the creature. I found him by his blood
staining the water, and by the help of a rope which
I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul,
they dragged him on shore, and found that it was
a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an
admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration to think what it was I kill-
ed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of
fire, and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and
ran up directly to the mountains from whence they
came. I found the Negroes were for eating the
flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have them
take it as a favour from me, which when I made
signs to them that they might take him, they were
very thankful, immediately falling to work at him;
and with a sharpened piece of wood they took off
his skin much more readily than we could have
done with a knife. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, making as if I would give
it them, but made signs for the skin, which they
gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal
more of their provisions, which, though I did not
understand, yet I accepted. Tmade signs to them
for some water, and held out one of my jars, then
turning it bottom upward, to shew that it was
empty, and that 1 wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and
there came two women, and brought a great vessel
made of earth, and burnt as I suppose in the sun;
this they set down for me, as before, and I sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all
three. The women were as stark naked as the
men.
34
THE LIFE OF
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such
as it was, and watei*; and leaving my friendly Ne-
groes, I made forward for about eleven days more,
without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the
land run out a great length into tfesea at about
the distance of four or five leagues before me; and
the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to
make this point. At length, doubling the point at
about two leagues from the land, I saw land plain-
ly on the other side to seaward. Then 1 conclud-
ed that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the
islands called from thence Cape de Verd islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what best to do; for if I should be
taken with a fresh gale of wind I might neither
reach one rior other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, atid sat me down, Xury having the
helm; when on a sudden the boy cried out, "Mas-
ter! Master! a ship with a sail!" and the foolish
boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his masters ships sent to pursue
us, when 1 knew we were gotten far enough out of
their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and im-
mediately saw not only the ship, but what she was,
(viz.) that it was a Portuguese ship; and, as 1
thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea for Ne-
groes. But when I observed the course she steer-
ed, I was soon convinced they were bound some
other way, and did not design to come any nearer
to the shore: upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if
possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they
35
would be gone by, before I could make any signal
to them: but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their prospective-glasses, and that it
was some European boat, which, as they supposed,
must belong to some ship that was lost; so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encou-
raged by this; and as I had my masters ancient
on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal
of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw;
for they told me they saw the smoke, though they
did not hear the gun: upon these siguals they very
kindly brought to, and lay by for me, and in about
three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and
in Spanish, and in French, but I understood none
of them; but at last, a Scot's sailor, who was on
board, .called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, and had made my escape
out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee: then they
bid me come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, any one will be-
lieve, that I was thus delivered, as 1 esteemed it*
from such a miserable and almost hopeless condi-
tion as I was in. I immediately offered all I had
to the captain of the ship, as a return for my de-
liverance; but he generously told me, he would
take nothing from me, but that all I had should be
delivered safe to me when I came to the Brasils.
"For," says he,(i I have saved your life on no other
terms, than as I would be glad to be saved myself;
and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken
up in the same condition: besides," said he, when
I carry you to the Brasils, so great a way from
THE LIFE OF
your country, if I should take from you what little
you have, you will be starved there, and then I
only take away that life I have given. No, no,"
says he, "Seignor Inglise, (Mr. Englishman,) I
will carry you thither in charity; and those things
will help you to buy you subsistence there, and
your passage home again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle: for he ordered
the seamen, that none should offer to touch any
thing I had. Then he took every thing into his
own possession, and gave me back an exact inven-
tory of them, that I might have them, even so much
as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat it was a very good one; and that
he saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the
ship's use, and asked me what I would have for it.
I told him he had been so generous to me in every
thing, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him. Upon which
he told me he would give me a note of his hand to
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brasil; and
when it came there, if any one offered to give more,
he would make it up. He offered me also sixty
pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was
loath to take; not that I was not willing to let the
captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the
poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faith-
fully in procuring my own. However, when I let
him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years if he turn-
ed Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was
willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and
37
arrived in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All-
Saints bay, in twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with
myself I had now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I
can never enough remember: he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused every thing I
had in the ship to be punctually delivered me, and
what I was willing to sell, he bought; such as the
case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the
lump of bees-wax, for I had made candles of the
rest. In a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with
this stock I went on shore in the Brasils.
I had not been long here, but being recommend-
ed to the house of a good honest man like himself,
who had an ingenio, as they call it, that is a plan-
tation and a sugar-house, I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself with the manner of'
their planting and making of sugar: and seeing how
well the planters lived, and that they grew rich, I
resolved, if I could get licence to settle, there, I
would'turn planter among them; intending, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money,
which 1 had left in London, remitted to me. For
this purpose, I got a letter of naturalization, pur-
chasing as much land that was uncured, as my mo-
ney would reach; and formed a plan of my planta-
tion and settlement, such a one as might be suitable
to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese from Lisbon,
THE LIFE OF
but born of English parents, whose name was
Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was:
I call him neighbour, because his plantation lay
next to mine. We went on very sociable together:
my stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather
planted for food, than any thing else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order: so that the third
year we planted some tobacco, and made each of
us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes
in the year to come. But we both wanted help;
and now I found, more than before, I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder: I had no remedy but
to go on. I had got into an employment quite
remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the
life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good ad-
vice; nay, I was coming into the very middle sta-
tion, or upper degree of low life, which my father
advised me to before, and which if I resolved to go
on with, I might as well have stayed at home, and
never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had
done. I used often to say to myself,—" I could
have done this as well in England among my friends;
as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among
strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at sucb
a distance, as never to hear from any part of the
world that had the least knowledge of me."
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with but now and then this neighbour; no work to
be done but by the labour of my hands; and I
used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon
39
some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should
all men reflect, that when they compare their pre-
sent conditions with others that are worse, Heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be
convinced of their former felicity, by their experi-
ence. I say, how just has it been, that the truly
solitary life I reflected on in an island, of mere de-
solation, should be my lot, who had so often un-
justly compared it with the life which I then led, in
which had I continued, I had in all probability been
exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend,
the captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there in providing her
loading, and preparing for her voyage, near three
months: when telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: "Seignor Inglese," says he, for
so he always called me, "if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders
to the person who has your money in London, to
send your effects to Lisbon, to such person as I shall
direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, I will bring you the produce of them (God
willing) at my return; but since human affairs are
all subject to changes and disasters, I would have
you give orders but for one hundred pounds ster-
ling, which you say is half your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first: so that if it come
safe, you may order the rest the same way; and if
it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply."
This was wholesome advice, and looked so friend-
40
THE LIFE OF
ly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best
course I could take: so I accordingly prepared
letters to' the gentleman with whom I had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese cap-
tain as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures: my slavery, escape, and how
I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the
humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I
was now in, with all other necessary directions for
my supply. And when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English
merchants there, to send over, not the order only,
but a full account of my story to a merchant in
London, who represented it effectually to her;
whereupon, she not only delivered the money, but
out of her own pocket sent the Portuguese captain
a very handsome present for his humanity and
charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon,
and he brought them all safe to me to the Brasils;
among which, without my direction, (for I was too
young in my business to think of them,) he had tak-
en care to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and
utensils, necessary for my plantation, and which
were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
was made, for I was surprised with the joy of it:
and my good steward the captain had laid out the
fivepounds which my friend had sent him for a
present for himself, to purchase and bring me over
a servant under bond for six years' service; and
would not accept of any consideration except a
!
41
little tobacco, which I would have him accept, being
of my own produce.
Neither was this all: but my goods being all
English manufactures, such as cloths, stuffs, baize,
and things particularly valuable and desirable in
the country, I found means to sell them to a very
great advantage; so that I may say, I had more
than four times the value of my first cargo, and
was infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean
in the advancement of my plantation; for the first
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and an
European servant also; I mean, another besides
that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success
in my plantation: 1 raised fifty great rolls of to-
bacco, on my own ground, more than I had dis-
posed of for necessaries among my neighbours;
and these fifty rolls being each of above one hun-
dred pounds weight, were well cured, and laid by
against the -return of the fleet from Lisbon. And
now, increasing in business and wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond
my reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of the
best heads in business.
Having now lived almost four years in the Bra-
sils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well
upon my plantation, I had not only learned the
language, but had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as
among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which was
our port; and, in my discourse among them* I had
frequently given them an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, the maimer of trading with
I) 3
42
THE LIFE OF
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase
upon the coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys,
knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like,
not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth,
&c. but Negroes for the service of the Brasils, in
great numbers.
They always listened very attentively to my con-
versation on this subject, but especially to that part
which related to the buying of Negroes, which was
a trade at that time not far entered into, but, as far
as it was, had been carried on by the Assientos, (or
permission of the king of Spain and Portugal,) and
engrossed in the public stock; so that few Negroes
were bought, and those excessive dear.
Being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me
the next morning, and told me, they had been mu-
sing very much upon what I had conversed with
them about the last night; and they came to make
a secret proposal to me: and, after enjoining me
secrecy, they told me, that they had a mind to fit
out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plan-
tations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing
so much as servants; that as they could not pub-
licly sell the Negroes when they came, home, so
they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the
Negroes on shore privately, and divide them among
their own plantations; wishing that I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me,
that I should have my equal share of the Negroes,
without providing any part of the stock.
» This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed,
fiad it been made to any one that had not had a
43
settlement and plantation of his own to look after;
which was in a fair way of coming to be very con-
siderable, and with a good stock upon it: but for
me that was thus established, and had nothing to
do but go on as I had begun for three or four
years more, and to have sent for the other hundred
pounds from England, and who in that time, and
with that little addition, could scarce have failed
of being worth three or four thousand pounds ster-
ling, and that increasing too; for me to think of
such a voyage, was the most preposterous thing
that ever man in such circumstances could be
guilty of!
But 1, that was born to be my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upou me. In a word, I told them
I would go with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and
would dispose of it to such as 1 should direct, if I
miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-
tered into writings or covenants to do so; and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects, in case of my death; making the captain
of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my
effects as I had directed in my will: one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be ship-
peel to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve
my effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I
used half as much prudence to have looked into
my own interest, arid have made a judgment of
what I ought to have done, and not to have done,
I had certainly never gone away from so prosper-
44
THE LIFE OF
ous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views
of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voy-
age to sea, attended with all its common hazards;
to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect par-
ticular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy, rather than my reason: and
accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the
cargo finished, and all things done as by agreement
by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour again, 1st of September, 1659, being
the same day eight years that I went from my fa-
ther and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel
to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty
tons burden, carried six guns, and fourteen men,
besides the master, his boy, and myself: we had
on board no large cargo of goods, except of such
toys as were fit for our trade with the Negroes;
such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles;
especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissars,
hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standr
idg away to the northward upon our own coast*
with design to stretch over for the African coast,
when we came to about ten or twelve degrees of
North latitude. We had very good weather, on-
ly excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast,
till we came to the height of St. Augustino; from
whence, keeping further off at sea, we lost sight of
land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle
Fernando de Noronha, holding our course N. E. by
N. and leaving those isles on the East. In this
course we passed the line in about twelve days'
time; and were by our last observation in seven
degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude, when
a violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of
our knowledge. It began from the S. E. came
about to the N. W. and then settled into the N. E.
from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that
for twelve days together, we could do nothing but
drive; and scudding away before it, let it carry us
wherever fate and the fury of the winds directed:
and during these twelve days, I need not say, that
I expected every day to be swallowed up, nor in-
deed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men die of the calenture, and a
man and a boy washed overboard. About the
twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the mas-
ter made an observation as well as he could, and
found that he was in about eleven degrees North
latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of
longitude difference West from Cape St. Augustino;
so that he found that he was gotten upon the coast
of Guiana, or the North part of Brasil, beyond the
River Amazons, toward that of the River Oroonoque,
commonly called the Great River. And now he be-
gan to consult with me what course he should take;
for the ship was leaky, and very much disabled;
and he was for goiug directly back to the coast of
Brasil.
I was positively against that: and, looking over
the charts of the sea-coast of America with him,
we concluded there was no inhabited country for
us to have recourse to, till we came within the
circle of the Caribbee Islands; and therefore re-
solved to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by
keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay
or gulph of Mexico, we might easily perform, as
THE LIFE OF
we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we
could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of
Africa, without some assistance, both to our ship
and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and
steered away N. W. by W. in order to reach some
of our English islands, where I hoped for relief.
But our voyage was otherwise determined: for
being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen
minutes, a second storm came upon us, which
carried us away with the same impetuosity west-
ward, and drove us so out of the way of all human
commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to
the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured
by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men, early one morning, cried out,
"Land!" and we had no sooner run out of the
cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts
in the world we were, than the ship struck upon a
sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stop-
ped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that
we expected we should all have perished imme-
diately, and we were even driven into our close
quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and
spray of the sea.
It is not easy for one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the conster-
nation of men in such circumstances: we knew no-
thing where we were, or upon what land it was we
were driven, whether an island or the main, whe-
ther inhabited or not inhabited; and, as the rage
of the wind was still great, though rather less than
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the
ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces,
47
unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn
immediately about. Thus we sat looking one
upon another, and ^expecting death every moment,
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing
for another world; for there was little or nothing
more for us to do in this: that which was our pre-
sent comfort, and all the comfort we had, was,
that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not
break yet, and that the master said the wind began
to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a
little abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon
the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her
getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed,
and had nothing to do but to think of saving our
lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our
stern just before the storm; but she was first staved
by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the
next place she broke away, and either sunk, or was
driven off to sea: so there was no hope from her.
We had another boat on board; but how to get her
off into the sea, was a doubtful thing. However,
this was not a time to debate: for we fancied the
ship would break in pieces every minute; and some
told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold
of the boat, and, with the help of the rest of the
men, got her flung over the ship's side; when, get-
ting all into her, we let go, and committed ourselves,
being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the
wild sea; for though the storm was abated consi-
derably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the
shore, and might well be called, Den wild Zee, as
the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for
THE LIFE OF
we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, the
boat could not live, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if
we had, could we have done any thing with it; so
we worked at the oar towards the land, though
with heavy hearts, like men going to execution;
for we all knew, that when the boat came nearer
the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pie-^
ces by the breach of the sea. However, we com-
mitted our souls to God in the most earnest manner,
and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pul-
ling, as well as we could, towards land.
After we had rowed, or rather driven about a
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain-like, came rolling a-stern of us, and plain-
ly bade us expect the coup-de-grace. It took us
with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once;
and separating us as well from the boat, as from
one another, hardly gave us time to say, "O
God 1" for we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water: for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
having driven me, or rather carried me a vast way
on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but
half dead with the water I took in. I had so much
presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing
myself nearer the main land than I expected, I got
upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards
the land, as fast as I could, before another wave
should return, and take me up again: but I soon
found it was impossible to avoid it, for I saw the
49
sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water,
if I could, and so by swimming to preserve my
breathing, and, if possible, pilot myself towards
the shore.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me
at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body,
and carried me with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore; while I held my breath, and as-
sisted myself to swim forward with all my might.
I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when
I felt my head and hands shoot out above the sur-
face of the water; and though it was not two se-
conds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it
relieved me greatly, giving me breath and new
courage. I was again Covered with water, but not
so long but I held it out; and finding the water
had spent itself, and began to return, I struck for-
ward against the return of the waves, and felt
ground again with my feet. I stood still a few
moments to recover breath, when another wave,
having hurried me along as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and
that with such force, as left me senseless, and in-
deed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath,
as it were, quite out of my body; and had it re-
turned again immediately, I must have been stran-
gled in the water: but I recovered a little before
the return of the waves; and seeing I could not be
covered again with the water, J held fast by a piece
of the rock, till the wave went back. Now as the
waves were not so high as at first, being near land,
50
THE LIFE OF
I held my hold, till the wave abated; and then took
another run, which brought me so near the shore,
that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not swallow me up so as to carry me away; and the
next run I took, I got to the main land, where, to
my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the
shore, and sat down upon the grass, free from dan-
ger, and quite out of the reach of the water,
I was now landed, and safe 6n shore, and began
to look up and thank God that my life was saved,
in a case which, some minutes before, afforded
scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible
to express, what the ecstasies and transports of the
soul are when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the
very grave: and I do not wonder now at that cus-
tom, viz. that when a malefactor, who has the halter
about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turn-
ed off, and has a reprieve brought him; I say, I do
not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let
him blood that very moment they tell him of it,
that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from his heart, or overwhelm him.
"For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my
hands, and my whole being, as I may say, wrapped
up in the contemplation of my deliverance, making
a thousand gestures and motions which I cannot
describe, reflecting upon my companions that were
drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw
them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three
of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not
fellows.
 
Robinson Crusoe shipwrecked.
51
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off, and considered,
"LordI how was it possible I could get on
shore!"
After I had solaced my mind with the comfort-
able part of my condition, I began to look round
me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what
was next to be done; when I soon found my com-
forts abate, and that I had a dreadful deliverance:
for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any
thing either to eat or drink, to comfort me; nei-
ther did I see any prospect before me, but that of
perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild
Deasts. And that which was particularly afflicting
to me, was, that I had no weapon either to hurt or
kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creature that might desire
to kill me for theirs: I had nothing about me but
a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a
box; this was all my provision; and this threw me
into terrible agonies of mind, so that for a while I
ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what
would be my lot, if there were any ravenous beasts
in that country, seeing that at night they always
come abroad for, their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at
that time was, to get up into a thick busby tree,
like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and
where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the
next day what death I should die; for, as yet, I
saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong
from the shore to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did to my great joy: and
52
The life of
having drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth,
to prevent hunger, I went to the tree; and, getting
up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that,
if I should sleep, I might not fall. I cut me a
short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, and
so took up my lodgings; and having been exces-
sively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com-
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition, finding myself more refreshed with it,
than I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did
not rage and swell as before; but that which sur-
prised me most was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night, from the sand where she fay, by the'''
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as
far as the rock, which I first mentioned, where I
had been so bruised by being dashed against it:
this was within about a mile from the shore where
I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still,
I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might
save some necessary things for my use. •
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I looked about me again, and the first thing I
found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the
sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two
miles upon my right hand. I walked as far as I
could upon the shore to have got to her; but found
a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad, so I came
back, for the present, being more intent upon
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find sonie-
thing for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within
a quarter of a mile of the ship. And here I found
a fresh renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all
safe; that is to say, we had all got safe on shore,
and I had not been so miserable as to be left en-
tirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I
now was. This forced tears from my eyes again:
but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if
possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled off my
clothes, for the weather was extremely hot, and
took the water. But when I came to the ship, my
difficulty was still greater to know how to get on
board, for as she lay a-ground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second
time I spied a small piece of a rope, which I won-
dered I did not see at first, hang down by the
fore-chains, so low, as that with great difficulty
I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope, got
up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found
that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of
water in her hold, but that she lay on the side of
a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, and her
stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head
low almost to the water; by this means all her
quarter was free, and all that part was dry. You
may be sure my first work was to search and to
see what was spoiled and what was free: and
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were
dry, and untouched by the water; and being very
well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room
and filled my pockets with biscuit and .ate it as I
went about doing other things, for I had no time
to lose.
I also found some rum in the great cabin, of
E 3
54
THE LIFE OF
which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed
need enough of to spirit me for what was before
me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be
very necessary to me.
'It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had; and this extremity roused my ap-
plication. We had several spare yards, and two
or three large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast
or two in the ship: I resolved to fall to work with
these, and flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage of their weight, tying every one with
a rope, that they might not drive away. When
this was done, I went down the ship's side, and
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast toge-
ther at both ends as well as I could, in the form
of a raft; and laying two or three short pieces of
plank upon them cross-ways, I found I could walk
upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great weight, the pieces being too light: so
I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut
a spare top-mast into three lengths, and added
tbem to my raft, with a great deal of labour and
pains; but hoping to furnish myself with neces-
saries encouraged me to go beyond what I should
have been able to have done upon another occa-
sion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any
reasonable weight: my next care was what to load
it with, and how to preserve what I had laid upon
it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long
considering this. 1 first laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get; and having consi-
dered well what I most wanted, I first got three of
the seamen's chests, which I had broken open and
55
emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft.
The-first of these I filled with provisions, viz.
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and
a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we brought to
sea with us, but the fowls were killed; there had
been some barley and wheat together, but, to my
great disappointment, I found afterwards, that the
rats had eaten and spoiled it all. As for liquors,
I found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and
in all about five or six gallons of arrack; these I
stowed by themselves, there being no need to put
them in the chest, nor any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow,
though very calm, and I had the mortification to
see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left
on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open kneed, I
swam on board in. them and my stockings. This
put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, bi^t took no more than I wanted for
my present use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upou: as first, tools to work with on
shore; and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than
a ship-loading of gold would have been at that
time; so I got it down to my raft, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and
arms. Thete were two fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with
THE^LIFE OF
some powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and
two old rusty swords: with much search I found two
barrels of gunpowder dry and good, and a third
which had taken water; these two I got to my raft,
with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
well freighted, and began to think how I should get
to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rud-
der, and the least gust of wind would have overset
all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth calm sea;
the tide rising and setting in for the shore; and
what little wind there was blew me towards the
land. I found two or three broken oars belonging
to the boat, and besides the tools which were in
the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a ham-
mer; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile,
or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I
found it drive a little distant from the place where
I had landed before; by which I perceived that
f^re was some indraft of the water, and conse-
quently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
Ivliich I might make use of as a port to get to land
with my cargo.
It proved to be a creek; and in endeavouring to
keep in the middle of the stream, I had liked to
have suffered a second shipwreck, which, had it
been so, would, I verily think, have broken my
heart: for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft
ran a-ground at one end of it upon a shoal, and
not being a-ground al the other end, my cargo was
slipping off towards that end that was afloat. I
set my back against the chests, to keep them in
their places, but could not thrust off the raft with
all my strength; neither durst I stir from the pos-
ture I was in, but, holding up the chests with all
Robinson Crusoe returning upon his Raft from
the Wreck.
57
my might, I stood in that manner near half an
hour, in which time the tide flowing, my raft float-
ed again; and driving up higher I found myself
in the mouth of a little river, with land on both
sides.
I observed a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I
guided my raft, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping in time to see some
ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself
as near the coast as I could. Having got safe into
the cove at high water, though my raft drew about
a foot of water, I thrust her on upon a flat piece of
ground, and there moored by sticking my two bro-
ken oars into the ground; one on one side near
one end, and one on the other side near the other
end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and
left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek
a proper place for my habitation, and where to
stow my goods to secure them from whatever
might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not,
whether on the continent or on an island; whether
inhabited or not inhabited; whether in danger of
wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a
mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to over-top some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I took
out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pis-
tols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I
travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill,
where after I had with great labour and difficulty
got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great afflic-
tion: that I was in an island environed every way
with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks
which lay a great way off, and two small islands
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
West.
I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw
none: yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I
tell what was fit for food and what was not. At
my coming back, I shot at a great bird which I
saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood.
I believe it was the first gun that had been fired
there since the creation of the world: I had no
sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many
sorts, making a confused screaming and crying,
every one according to his usual note; but not one
of them of any kind that I knew: as for the crea-
ture I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons
or claws more than common; its flesh was carrion,
and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to
my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on
shore, which took me up the rest of the day: what
to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed
where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the
ground, not knowing but some wild beasts might
devour me, though I afterwards found there was
really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricadoed my-
self round with chests and boards that I had
brought on shore; and made a kind of a hut for
that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not
which way to supply myself, except that I had
59
seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to
hand; and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible: and as I knew that
the first storm that blew must necessarily break
her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart till I got every thing out of the ship that I
could. When the tide was down, I set off as be-
fore, only that I stripped before I went from my
hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt, a
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.
I got on board the ship, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so
hard; but yet I brought away several things very
useful to me: as, first, in the carpenter s store I
found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and
above all, that most useful thing called a grind-
stone. All these I secured, together with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two
or three iron crows, two barrels of musket-bullets,
seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with a
small quantity of powder, a large bag full of small
shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last
was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over
the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-top-sail, ham-
mock, and some bedding; and with these I loaded
GO
THE LIFE OF
my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore
to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my ab-
sence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore; but when I came
back, I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat
a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still; she sat very com-
posed, and unconcerned, and looked full in my
face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with
me. I presented my gun at her, but as she did
not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned
at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed her a bit of biscuit, though by the way I was
not very free of it, for my store was not great.
However, I spared her a bit, and she went to it,
smelled at it, and ate it, and looked (as if pleased)
for more: but I thanked her, and could spare no
more; so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, (though
I was fain to open the barrels of powder, and
bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy,
being large casks,) I went to work to make me a
little tent with the sail, and some poles which I cut
for that purpose: and into this tent I brought
every thing that I knew would spoil, either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and
casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from
any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set up an end without; and spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I
61
went to bed for the first time, and slept very
quietly all night. I was very weary and heavy;
for the night before I had slept little, and had la-
boured very hard all day, as well to fetch all those
things from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, 1 believe, for one man. But I
was not satisfied still: for while the ship sat up-
right in that posture, I thought I ought to get
every thing out of her that I could. So every day,
at low water, I went on board, and brought away
something or other; but particularly the third time
I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as
I could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine
I could get, with a piece of square canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the
barrel of wet gunpowder. I brought away all the
sails first and last, for they were useful to me as
canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was,
that after 1 had made five or six such voyages, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the
ship that was worth meddling with, I found a
great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets
of rum or spirits, a box of sugar, and a barrel of
fine flour: this was surprising to me, because I
had given over expecting any more provisions,
except what was spoiled by the water. I soon
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt it
up parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which
I cut out; and got it all safe on shore.
The next day 1 made another voyage: and now
having plundered the ship of what was portable,
and fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and
cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could
F
G2
THE LIFE OF
move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore,
with all the iron work I could get; and having cut
down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and
every thing I could to make a large raft, I loaded
it with all those heavy goods, and came away.
But my good fortune began to leave me: for this
raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after
I had entered the little cove, where I had landed
the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so
handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw
me and all my cargo into the water. As for my-
self, it was no great harm, for I was near the
shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it
lost, especially the iron, which would have been of
great use to me: however, when the tide was out,
I got most of the pieces of cable a-shore, and
some of the iron, though with infinite labour.
After this, I went every day on board, and brought
away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship; in which
time I had brought away all that one pair of hands
could well be supposed capable to bring; though
I verily believe, had the calm weather held, I
should have brought away the whole ship, piece
by piece. But preparing to go on board the
twelfth time, I found the wind began to rise:
however, at low water I went on board; and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually, as that nothing more could be found,
yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and a pair
of large scissars, with some ten or a vdozen of good
knives and forks; in another I found about thirty-
six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and
some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money.
<( O drug!v said I, aloud, " what art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to me, no not the taking
off the ground; one of these knives is worth all
this heap, I have no manner of use for thee, even
remain where thou art, and go to the bottom as a
creature whose life is not worth saving V How^
ever, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to
think of making another raft; but while I was
preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the
wind began ,to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it
blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently
occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft, with the wind off shore, and that it
was my business to be gone before the tide of
flood began, otherwise I might not be able to
reach the shore at all: accordingly, I let myself
down into the water, and swam across the chan-
nel, which lay between the ship and the sands,
and even that with difficulty enough, partly with
the weight of the things I had about me, and
partly the roughness of the water; for the wind
rose very hastily, and before it was high water it
blew a storm.
But I got home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning when
I looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen.
I was a little surprised; but recovered myself with
this satisfactory reflection: viz. that I had lost no
time, nor abated any diligence to get every thing
out of her that could be useful to me; and that
THE LIFE OF
indeed there was little left in her that I was able
to bring away, if I had had more time.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if any
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the
island; and I had many thoughts of the method
how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make,
whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or
erect a tent. I resolved upon both; the manner
and description of which it may not be improper
to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not fit for
my settlement, because it was upon a low moorish
ground near the sea, and would not be wholesome,
and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it; so I resolved to find a more healthy
and convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which
I found would be proper for me: first, health, and
fresh water; secondly, shelter from the heat of the
sun; thirdly, security from ravenous creatures,
whether men or beasts; fourthly, a view of the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage of my deliverance, for which
I was not willing to banish all expectation.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a
small plain on the side of a rising hill, whose form
towards this plain was steep as a house-side, so
that nothing could come down upon me from the
top; on the side of this rock there was a hollow
entrance, worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave, but there was not really any cave
or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain
65
was not above a hundred yards broad, and about
twice as long, and lay like a green before the
door, and at the end of it descended irregularly
every way down into the low grounds by the sea-
side.
It was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so that
T was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts,
which in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle
before the hollow place, which took in about
ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and
twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning
and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they
stood very firm like piles, the biggest end being
out of the ground about five feet and a half, and
sharpened on the top; the two rows did not stand
above six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them in rows one upon an-
other, within the circle between these two rows of
stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the
inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a
half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
get into it, or over it. This cost me a great deal
of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in
the wood, bring them to the place, and drive them
into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not
by a door, but by a short ladder to go ov^r the
top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over
after me: and so I was completely fenced in, and
F 3
THE LIFE OF
and fortified, as I thought, from all the world,
and, consequently, slept secure in the night.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour,
I carried all my riches, provision, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above:
•and I made me a large tent, to preserve me from
the rains, which in one part of the year are very
violent there; I made it double, one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent, above, and covered the
uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay in a hammock, which was indeed a
very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
I next began to work my way into the rock, and
\ bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my
fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised
the ground within about a foot and a half; and
thus I made a cave just behind my tent, which
served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before
all these things were brought to perfection. A
storm of rain fell at this time from a thick dark
cloud, accompanied with a sudden flash of light-
ning, and after that a great clap of thunder. I
was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I
was with a thought which darted into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself:—" O my powder!" My
very heart sunk within me, when I thought, that at
one blast all my powder might be destroyed; on
which, not only my defence, but the providing my
food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was not
anxious about my own danger; though, had the
powder took fire, I had never known who had
hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that,
after the storm was over, I laid aside all my works,
my building, and fortifying, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes to separate my powder, in
hopes, that, whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it
should not be possible to make one part fire an-
other. I finished this work in about a fortnight;
and I think my powder, which was in all about
140 pounds weight, was divided in not less than a
hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been
wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that, so
I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I
called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up and down
in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might
come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I
went out once, at least, every day with my gun, as
well to divert myself, as to see if I could kill any
thing fit for food; and as near as I could to ac-
quaint myself with what the island produced.
The first time I went out, I presently discovered
that there were goats in the island, which was a
great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended
with this misfortune to me, that they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was with
great difficulty I could come at them. But I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might
now and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for,
after I had found their haunts a little, I laid wait
in this manner for them: I observed if they saw
me in the vallies, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the vallies, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
THE LIFE OF
whence I concluded, that by the position of their
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above
them. So afterwards I took this method: I al-
ways climbed the rocks first to get above them,
and then had frequently a fair mark. The first
shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-
goat, which had a little kid by her, which she gave
suck to, which grieved me heartily: but when the
old one fell, the kid stood by her till I came and
took her up; and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my inclosure. Upon which
I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my
arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to
have bred it up tame: but it would not eat, so I
was forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These
two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I ate
sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as I possibly could.
I must now give some little account of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which it may
well be supposed were not a few. I had a dismal
prospect of my condition: for as I was not cast
away-upon that island, without being driven by a
violent storm quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage some hundreds of leagues out of
the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had
great reason to consider it as a determination of
Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this
desolate manner, I should end my life. The tears
would run plentifully down my face when I made
these reflections, and sometimes I would expostu-
late with myself, why Providence should thus
completely ruin his creatures, and render them so
 
Robinson Crusoe bringing Home the Goat
iv hi eh he had shot.
69
absolutely miserable, so without help abandoned,
so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me
to check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and
particularly one day walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason, as
it were, expostulated with me in this way:—
"Well, you are in a desolate condition it is true;
but pray, remember, where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat?
where are the ten? Why were not they saved, and
you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better
to be here or there?" and then I pointed to the
sea. All evils are to be considered with the good
that is in them, and with what worse attends
them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was
furnished for my subsistence, and what would
have been my case if it had not happened, which
was a hundred thousand to one, that the ship
floated from the place where she first struck, and
was driven so near to the shore that I had time to
get all these things out of her. What would have
been my case, if I had been to have lived in the
condition in which I at first came on shore, with-
out the necessaries of life, or any means to
procure them?" Particularly," said I aloud,
(though to myself,) "what should I have done
without a gun; without ammunition; without any
tools to make any thing, or to work with? with-
out clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of
covering?" and that now I had all these to a
sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to pro-
THE LIFE OF
vide myself in such a manner, as to live without
my gun when my ammunition was spent.
And now, being to enter into a melancholy rela-
tion of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order.
It was, by my account, the 30th of September
when I first set foot upon this horrid island; when
the sun, being to us in its autumnal equinox, was
almost just over my head; for I reckoned myself,
by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees
22 minutes North of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve
days, it came into my thoughts, that I should lose
my reckoning of time for want of books, and pen
and ink, and should even forget the sabbath days
from the working days: but to prevent this, I cut
it with my knife upon a large post, in capital let-
ters, and, making it into a great cross, 1 set it up
on the shore where I first landed; viz. "I came
on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this square post, I cut every
day a notch with my knife, and every seventh
notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month as long again as that long
one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among
the many things which I brought out of the ship
in the several voyages which I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I omitted setting down before:
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several
parcels in the captain's, mate s, gunner s, and car-
penter's keeping; three or four compasses; some
71
mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives,
charts, and books of navigation; all which I hud-
dled together, whether I might want them or not;
also I found three very good Bibles which came
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese
books also, and among them two or three popish
prayer-books, and several other books, all of
which I carefully secured. And I must not forget
that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say
something in its place: for I carried both the cats
with me; and as for the dog he jumped out of
the ship himself, and swam on shore to me the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo,
and was a trusty servant to me many years. 1
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any
company that he could make up to me: I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would
not do.
I now found I wanted many things, notwith-
standing all that I had amassed together: and
of these, that of ink was one; as also, spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins, and thread. As for linen, I soon
learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habi-
tation. The piles or stakes, which were as heavy
as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and preparing in the woods, and more by far in
bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two
days in cutting and bringing home one of those
posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground;
THE LIFE OF
for which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood
at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the
iron crows, which, however, though I found it, yet
it made driving these posts or piles very laborious
and tedious work.
But what need had I to be coucerned at the
tediousness of any thing I had to do? seeing I
had time enough to do it in: nor had I any other
employment if that had been over, at least that I
could foresee; except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did more or less, every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstances I was reduced to; and I
drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not so
much to leave them to any that were to come after
me, (for I was like to have but few heirs,) as to
deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them,
and afflicting my mind: and as my reason began
now to master my despondency, I began to com-
fort myself as well as I could, and to set the good
against the evil, that I might have something to
distinguish my case from worse; and I stated it
very impartially, like debtor and creditor, (the
comforts I enjoyed, against the miseries I suf-
fered,) thus—
EVIL.
I am cast upon a horri-
ble desolate island; void
of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
separated, as it were,
GOOD.
But 1 am alive, and
not drowned, as all my
ships company were.
But I am singled out
too from all the ship's
73
from all the world, to be
miserable.
I am divided from
mankind; a solitary one
banished from human
society.
I have no clothes to
cover me.
I am without any de-
fence, or means to resist
any violence of man or
beast.
crew to be spared from
death; and He that
miraculously saved me
from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
But I am not starved,
and perishing on a bar-
ren place, affording no
sustenance.
But I am in a hot cli-
mate; where, if I had
clothes, I could hardly
wear them*
But I am cast on an
island where I see no
wild beasts to hurt me,
as I saw on the coast of
Africa: and what if I
had been shipwrecked
there 1
I have no soul to speak
to or relieve me.
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so many
necessary things as will
either supply my wants,
or enable me to supply
myself, even as long as
I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted tes-
THE LIFE OF
timony, that there was scarce any condition in the
world so miserable, but there was something nega-
tive or something positive to be thankful for in it;
and let this stand as a direction from the experi-
ence of the most miserable of all conditions in this
world, that we may always find in it something to
comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the descrip-
tion of good and evil, on the credit side of the
account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, and given over looking out to sea,
to see if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over
these things, I began to apply myself to accom-
modate my way of living, and to make things as
easy to me as I could.
#L have already described my habitation, which
was a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded
with a strong pale of posts and cables, but I might
now rather call it a wall: for I raised a kind of
wall up against it of turfs, about two feet thick on
the outside; and after some time (I think it was a
year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to
the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs
of trees, and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I found at some times of the
year very violent.
I set myself to enlarge my cave and works fur-
ther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on
it: and so when I found I was pretty safe as to
beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right
hand into the rock; and then turning to the right
hand again, worked quite out, and made me a
door to come out, on the outside of my pale or
fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were a back-way to my tent and store-house, but
gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I most wanted, particularly a
chair and a table: for without these I was not able
to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I
could not write or eat, or several things with so
much pleasure, without a table.
So I went to work; but never having handled a
tool in my life, I was particularly awkward: and
yet in time, by labour, application, and contrivance,
I found at last that I wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if I had had tools. How-
ever, I made abundance of things, even without
tools, and some with no more than an adze an&a
hatchet, and that with infinite labour: for example,
if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew
it flat on either side with my axe, till I had brought
it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth
with my adze. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out of a whole tree; but this
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than
I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour
which it took me up to make a plank or board:
but my time or labour was little worth, and so it
was as well employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair in the
first place; and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards that I had brought on my raft from the
ship: but when I had wrought out some boards,
as above, I made large shelves of the breadth of a
foot and a half one over another, all along one side
of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
THE LIFE OF
work; and, in a word, to separate every thing at
large in their places, that I might come easily at
them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock
to hang my guns, and all things that would hang
up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things;
and I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it
was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in
such order, and especially to find my stock of all
necessaries so great.
I began now to keep my journal; of which I
shall here give you the copy (though in it will be
told all these particulars over again) as long as it
lasted, for. having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Ro-
binson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a
dreadful storm, in the Offing, came on shore on
this dismal, unfortunate island, which I call the
Island of Despair; all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting my-
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to:
viz. 1 had neither food, house, clothes, weapon,
nor place to fly to; and, in despair of any relief,
saw nothing but death before me; either that I
should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by
savages, or starved to death for want of food. At
the approach of night I slept in a tree for fear of
wild creatures, but slept soundly though it rained
all night.
October 1. In the morning, I saw, to my great
77
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the
island: this was some comfort, as I hoped, if the
wind abated, I might get on board, and get some
food and necessaries out of her for my relief;
which I did. I went upon the sand as near as I
could, and then swam on board. This day also it
continued raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. AH
these days entirely spent in many several voyages
to get all I could out of the ship, which I brought
on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much
rain also on these days; though with some inter-
vals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was the
rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I
had got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of
them when the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind; during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I had saved, that rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation;
greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack
in the night, either from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I fixed upon a proper place under
a rock, and marked out a semi-circle for my en-
campment; which I resolved to strengthen with a
work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles,
lined within with cable, and without with turf.
G 3
THE LIFE OF
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation,
though some part of the time it rained exceeding
hard.
The 31st in the morning, I went out into the
island with my gun to seek for some food, and
discover the country; when I killed a she-goat,
and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards
killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock,
and lay there for the first night, making it as large
as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my ham-
mock upon. The next day I set up all my chests
and boards, and the pieces of timber which made
my raft, and with them formed a fence round me,
a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good. In
the afternoon, I went to work to make me a table.
The next morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion: viz. every morning I walked
out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did
not rain; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on;
and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the
weather being excessive hot; and then in the
evening to work again. The. working part of this
day and of the next were wholly employed in
making my table; for I was yet but a very sorry
workman, though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe
it would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun
79
and my dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin, pretty
soft, but her flesh good for nothing: every crea-
ture I killed, I took off the skins and preserved
them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw
many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not under-
stand; but was surprised and almost frighted with
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at,
not well knowing what they were, got into the sea,
and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to
work with my table again, and finished it, though
not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned
to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair wea-
ther. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the
12th, (for the 11th was Sunday,) I took wholly up
to make me a chair, and with much ado brought
it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me:
and even in the making I pulled it in pieces several
times. Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sun-
days; for, omitting my mark for them on the post,
I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
me exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was
accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in
danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might
hold about a pound, or two pounds at most, of
powder; and putting the powder in, I stowed it in
places as secure and remote from one another as
THE LIFE OF
possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my further
convenience. Note. Three things I wanted ex-
ceedingly for this work: viz. a pick-axe, a shovel,
and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I desisted from
my work, and began to consider how to supply that
want, and make me some tools. As for a pick-
axe, I made use of .the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy: but the next thing
was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely ne-
cessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually
without it; but what kind of one to make I knew
not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, 1 found a tree of that wood, or like it,
which in the Brasils they call the iron tree, for its
exceeding hardness; of this, with great labour,
and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and
brought it home too with difficulty enough, for it
was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having,
no other way, made me a long while upon this
machine; for I worked it effectually by little and
little into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle
exactly shaped like ours in England, only that
the broad part having no iron shod upon it at the
bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it
served well enough for the use which I had occa-
sion to put it to: but never was a shovel, I believe,
made after that fashion, or so long a making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a
wheel-barrow. A basket I could not make by any
81
means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
out: and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion
of, neither did I know how to go about it; be-
sides, I had no possible way to make the iron
gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in; so I gave it over. And so, for carrying
away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made
a thing like a hod which the labourers cany mor-
tar in, when they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as making the
shovel: and yet this, and the shovel, and the at-
tempt which I made in vain to make a wheel-
barrow, took me up no less than four days,
exceptiug my morning walk with my gun, which I
seldom neglected; and very seldom failed to bring
home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood
still because of my making these tools, when they
were finished, I went on, and working every day,
as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen
clays entirely in widening and deepening my cave,
that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note, During all this time, I worked to make
this room or cave spacious enough to accommodate
me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a din-
ing-room, and a cellar; as for my lodging, I kept
to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet
season of the year it rained so hard that I could
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards
to cover all my place within my pale, with long-
poles in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves
•of trees like a thatch.
THE LIFE OF
December 10. I began now to think my care
or vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell
down from the top and one side, so much that in
short it frighted me, and not without reason too;
for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a
grave-digger. Upon this disaster I had a great
deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose
earth to carry out, and, which was of more im-
portance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it ac-
cordingly, and got two shoars or posts pitched
upright to the top, with two pieces of boards
across over each post. This I finished the next day:
and setting more posts up with boards, in about a
week more I had the roof secured; and the boards
standing in rows, served me for partitions to part
off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I
placed shelves, and knocked up nails on the
"posts to hang every thing up that could be hung-
up: and now I began to be in some order within
doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up
some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order my
victuals upon, but boards began to be very scarce
with me; also I made me another table.
Dec. 24 and 25. Much rain; no stirring out.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.
Dec* 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other so that I catched it, and led it home in a
string: Avhcn I had it home, 1 bound and splintered
83
up its leg, which was broke. N. B. I took such
care of it that it livedo and the leg grew well, and
as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long, it
grew lame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first
time that I entertained a thought of breeding up
some tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats, and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening for food. This time I spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad
early and late with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening, going further
into the vallies, which lay towards the centre of
the island, I found there was plenty of goats,
though exceeding shy and hard to come at: how-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and set him upon the goats: but I
was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
dog; and he knew his danger too well, for he
would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which,
being still jealous of my being attacked by some-
body, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal: it is
* sufficient to observe, that 1 was no less time
than from the third of January to the fourteenth
of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about twenty-
four yards in length; being a half circle from
THE LIFE OF
one place in the rock, to another place about
eight yards from it; the door of the cave being
in the centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
together; but I thought I should never be per-
fectly secure till this walL was finished. It is
scarce credible what inexpressible labour every
thing was done with; especially the bringing piles
out of the woods, and driving them into the
ground, for I made them much bigger than I
need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside
double fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it,
I persuaded myself that if any people were to
come on shore there, they would not perceive any
thing like a habitation: and it was very well I did
so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a remark-
able occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day when the rain permitted me,
and made frequent discoveries in these walks of
something or other to my advantage: particularly
I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-
pigeons in the holes of the rocks; and taking
some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up
tame, and did so; but when they grew older they
flew all away, which perhaps was at first for want
of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their nests, and got
their young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs,
I found myself in want of many things, which I
thought at first it was impossible for me to make:
8&
for instance, I could never make a cask to be
hooped; I had a small runlet or two, but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, though I spent many weeks about it; I
could neither put in the heads, nor join the staves
so true to one another, as to make them hold
water, so I gave that over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for can-
dle; so that as soon as ever it was dark, which
was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go
to bed. I remembered the lump of bees-wax with
which I made candies in my African adventure,
but I had none of that now. The only remedy I
had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick
of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this gave
me light, though not a clear steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it hap-
pened, that rummagiug my things, I found a little
bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled
with corn, for the feeding of poultry, not for this
voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon: but what little remainder of
corn had been in the bag, was all devoured by the
rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and
dust; and wanting the bag for some other use, (I
think it was to put powder in, when I divided it
for fear of the lightning, or some such use,) I
shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of
my fortification under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now
mentioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no
notice of any thing, and not so much as remem-
bering that I had thrown any thing there: when
H
THE LIFE OF
about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some
stalks of something green shooting out of the
earth, which I fancied might be some plant I had
not seen; but I was surprised, and perfectly asto-
nished, when, after a little longer time, I saw
about ten or twelve ears come out, which were
perfect green barley, of the same kind as our
European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion. I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
head, nor had entertained any sense of any thing
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance,
or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without
so much as enquiring into the end of Providence
in these things, or his order in governing events in
the world: but after I saw barley grow there, in a
climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I. knew not how it came there, it
startled me strangely, and I began to suggest, that
God had miraculously caused this grain to grow
without any help of seed sown, and that it was so
directed purely for my sustenance on that wild
miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that
such a prodigy of nature should happen on my
account; and this was the more strange to me,
because I saw near it, all along by the side of the
rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I
had seen it grow in Africa when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions
of Providence for my support; but not doubting
87
but that there was more in the place, I went all
over that part of the island, where I had been be-
fore, peering in every corner, and under every
rock, to see for more of it, but I could not find
any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, that I
had shook the bag of chicken's meat out in that
place, and then the wonder began to cease; and I
must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
Providence began to abate too, upon discovering,
that all this was nothing but what was common:
though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen a Providence, as if it had
been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order or ap-
point, ten or twelve grains of corn should remain
unspoiled, (when the rats had destroyed all the
rest,) as if it had been dropt from heaven; and
that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where it being in the shade of a high rock, it
sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it any where else at that time, it had been burnt
up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
June; and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow
them all again, hoping in time, to have a quantity
sufficient to supply me with bread: but it was not
till the fourth year that I could allow myself the
least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but
sparingly.
Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the
same care to make me bread or rather food; for I
found ways to cook it up without baking. But to
return to my journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four
months to get my wall done; and the fourteenth
of April I closed it up, contriving to go into it,
not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder, that
there might be no sign on the outside of my
habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up
with the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up
after me, and let it down on the inside. This
was a complete inclosure to me; for within I had
room enough, and nothing could come at me from
without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once,
and myself killed. The case was thus: as I was
busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in
the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted
with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed! for
all on a sudden I found the earth came tumbling
down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge
of the hill over my head, aod two of the posts I
had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful man-
ner'. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing
of what was really the cause, only thinking that the
top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had
done before: and for fear I should be buried in it,
1 ran forward to my ladder; and, not thinking
myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for
fear of the pieces of the hill which I expected
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stept
down upon the firm ground, but I plainly felt it
was a terrible earthquake: for the ground I stood
on shook three times in about eight minutes dis-
tance, with three such shocks, as would have
overturned the strongest building that could be
supposed to have stood upon the earth; and a
great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about
half a mile from me next the sea, fell down with
such a terrible noise, as I never heard in all my
life. I perceived also, the very sea was put into
violent motion by it; and I believe the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having
never felt the like, or conversed with any one that
had, that I was like one dead or stupified; and the
motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me as it were; and
rousing me from the stupified condition I was in,
filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing
then but the hill falling upon my tent, and all my
household goods, and burying all at once; and
this sunk my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no
more for some time, I began to take courage: and
yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall
again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat still
upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconso-
late, not knowing what to do. All this while I
had not the least serious religious thought, nothing
but the common, "Lord have mercy upon me!"
and when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air over-cast, and
grow cloudy, as if it would rain; and in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane:
the sea was all on a sudden covered over with
foam and froth, the shore was covered with the
breach of the wrater, the trees were torn up by the
roots, and a terrible storm it was. This held
about three hours, and then began to abate; and
h 3
THE LIFE OF
in two hours more it was calm, and began to rain
very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came
into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my cave again. With this thought my spirits
began to revive, and the rain also helping to per-
suade me, I went in, and sat down in my tent; but
the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to
be beaten down with it, and I was forced to go
into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy
for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz.
to cut a hole through my new fortification, like a
sink to let water go out, which would else have
drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave
some time, and found no more shocks of the earth-
quake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it
very much, I went to my little store, and took a
small sup of rum, which however I did then, and
always, very sparingly, knowing I could have no
more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir
abroad; but my mind being more composed, I
began to think of what I had better do: conclud-
ing, that if the island was subject to these earth-
quakes there would be no living for me in a cave,
but I must consider of building me some little hut
in an open place, which I might surround with a
wall as 1 had done here, and so make myself se-
cure from wild beasts or men: but concluded, if I
91
stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or
other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my
tent from the place where it stood, which was just
under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which,
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall
upon my tent. And I spent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me
that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehen-
sion of lying abroad without any fence was almost
equal to it: but still, when I looked about, and
saw how every thing was put in order, how plea-
santly concealed I was, and how safe from danger,
it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me, that it
would require a vast deal of time to do this, and
that I must be contented to run the venture where
I was, till I had formed a camp for myself; and
had secured it so as to remove it. So with this
resolution I composed myself for a time, and re-
solved that I would go to work with all speed to
build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a
circle, as before, and set my tent up in it when it
was finished; but that I would venture to stay
where I was till it was finished and fit to remove
to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning 1 began to con-
sider of means to put this resolve into execution,
but I was at a great loss about my tools. I had
three large axes, and abundance of hatchets, (for
we carried the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians,) but with much chopping and cutting knotty
hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull;
THE LIFE OF
and though T had a grind-stone, I could not turn it
and grind my tools too. This cost me as much
thought, as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a gTand point of politics, or a judge upon
the life and death of a man. At length I contrived
a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that
I might have both my hands at liberty. Note. I
had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least, not to take notice how it was done, though
since I have observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grind-stone was very large and
heavy. This machine cost me a week's work to
bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my
grind-stone performing very well,
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and
reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning looking towards the
sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lie
on the shore bigger than ordinary; and when I
came to it, it proved to be a small barrel and two
or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which
were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and
looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it
seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used
to do. On examining the barrel, I found it was a
barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone; how-
ever, I rolled it further on shore for the present.
When I came down to the ship, I found it
strangely removed: the forecastle, which lay be-
fore buried in the sand, was heaved up at least six
93
 
feet; and the stern, which was broken to pieces,
and parted from the rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was toss
up, as it were, and cast on one side, and the
was thrown so high on that side next her
that where there was a great place of water hi
so that I could not come within a quarter TMP^a/
mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now
walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it
must be done by the earthquake.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the de-
sign of removing my habitation; and I busied
myself that day in searching whether I could make?,
any way into the ship: but I found nothing was t
be expected of that kind, for that all the inside
the ship was choked up with sand.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a pi
of a beam through, which I thought held some(%
the upper part or quarter-deck together, and when
I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as
well as I could from the side which lay highest;
but the tide coming in I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport; when just going to leave off, I caught a
young dolphin. I made a long line of some rope-
yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as 1 cared to eat; all which
I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5 to 14. Went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber and
board, or plank, and two or three hundred weight
of iron.
THE LIFE OF
 
May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I
could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by plac-
ing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with
other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in
*%|water, I could not make any blow to drive the
r^het.
ay 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and
the wreck appeared more broken by the force of
the water; but I stayed so long in the woods to
get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me
going to the wreck that day.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on
the wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some
things so much with the crow, that the first blow-
ing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
teamen's chests: but the wind blowing from the
"hore, nothing came to land that day but pieces
J&f timber, and a hogshead which had some Brasil
4pork in it; but the salt-water and sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day, to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed during this part of my
employment, to be when the tide was up, that I
might be ready when it was ebbed out: and by
this time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-
work, enough to have built a good boat, if I had
known how; and also, I got at several times, and
in several pieces, near a hundred weight of the
sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found
a large tortoise or turtle. This was the first I had
seen, which it seems was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place, or scarcity: for had t
happened to be on the other side of the island, T
95
might have had hundreds of them every day, as I
found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear
enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle: I
found in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to
me at that time the most savoury and pleasant;
that I ever tasted in my life, having had no flesh
but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid
place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the
weather had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in
my head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to death
with the apprehensions of my sad condition, to
be sick, and no help: prayed to God for the first
time since the storm off Hull, but scarce knew
what I said, or why; my thoughts being all
confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering,
and then a violent head-ache: but on the 24th I
was much better.
June 25. An ague, very violent: the fit held
me seven hours; cold fit and hot, with faint sweats
after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to
eat, took my gun, but found myself very weak:
however, I killed a she-goat, and with much diffi-
culty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate;
THE LIFE OF
I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay
in bed all day, and neither ate nor drank. 1 was
ready to perish for thirst, but so weak, I had no
strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to
drink: prayed to God again, but was light-headed,
and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew
not what to say; only I lay and cried, "Lord,
look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy
upon me!" I suppose I did nothing else for two
or three hours, till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep,
and did not wake till far in the night. When I
waked, 1 found myself much refreshed, but weak,
and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no water
in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep, 1 had this terrible dream:—
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on
the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm
blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright
flame of fire, and alight upon the ground: he was
all over as bright as a flame, so that I could but
just bear to look towards him; his countenance
was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for
words to describe; when he stepped upon the
ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the earthquake, and
all the air looked to my apprehension, as if it had
been filled with flashes of fire. He was no sooner
landed upon the earth, but he moved forward to-
wards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me: and when he came to a rising
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I
97
heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to
express the terror of it; all that I can say I un-
derstood was this, "Seeing all these things have
not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt
die!" At which words I thought he lifted up the
spear that was in his hand to kill me.
The hoiTors of my soul at this terrible vision, I
find myself unable to describe; nor is it any more
possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was
but a dream. *
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had
received by the good instruction of my father, was
then worn out by an uninterrupted series (for eight
years) of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with nothing but such as were, like
myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I
do not remember that I had in all that time one
thought that so much as tended either to looking
upwards towards God, or inwards towards a re-
flection upon my own ways: but a certain stupidity
of soul, without desire of good, or conscience of
evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked crea-
ture among our common sailors can be supposed
to be; not having the least sense, either of the
fear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to God
in deliverances.
This will be the more easily believed, when*I
add, that through all the variety of miseries
that had to this day befallen me, 1 never had so
much as one thought of it being the hand of God,
or that it was a just punishment for my sin, my
rebellious behaviour against my father, or my
present sins, which were great; or so much as a
I
THE LIFE OF
punishment for the general course of my wicked
life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a distinct
view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was
exhausted with the violence of the fever; con-
science, that had slept so long, began to awake:
I began to reproach myself with my past life, in
which I had so evidently, by uncommon wicked-
ness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so
vindictive a manner.
These reflections oppressed me for the second
or third day of my distemper; and in the violence,
as well of the fever, as of the dreadful reproaches
of my conscience, extorted some words from me,
like praying to God, though I cannot say they
were either a prayer attended with desires, or with
hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright or
distress: my thoughts were confused, the convic-
tions great upon my mind, and the horror of dying
in such a miserable condition, raised vapours into
my head with the mere apprehensions; and in
these hurries of my soul, 1 know not what my
tongue might express, but it was rather exclama-
tion, such as, "Lord! what a miserable creature
ami! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for
want of help, and what will become of me!"
Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could
say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father
came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the beginning of this story,
viz. "That if I did take this foolish step, God
91)
would not bless me; and I should have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery." "Now," said I aloud, "my dear fa-
ther's words are come to pass.—God's justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which bad
mercifully put me in a posture or station of life,
wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn to know the
blessing of it from my parents; I left them to
mourn over my folly, and now I am left to mourn
under the consequences of it. I refused their help
and assistance who would have lifted me into the
world, and would have made every thing easy to
me; and now I have difficulties to struggle with,
too great for even nature itself to support, and no
assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice.'* Then
I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress 1"
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so,
that I had made for many years. But I return to
my journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off,
I got up; and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit
of the ague would return again the next day, and
now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill. So the first
thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle with
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my
bed; and to take off the chill, or aguish disposition
of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum
into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me
THE LIFE OF
a piece of the goal's flesh, and broiled it upon the
coals, but could eat very little. I walked about,
but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-
hearted, with the thoughts of my miserable condi-
tion; dreading the return of my distemper the
next day. At night I made my supper of three of
the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this was the
first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to
(that I could remember) in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found
myself so weak that I could hardly carry the gun,
(for I never went out without that;) so I went
but a little way, and sat down upon the ground,
looking about upon the sea, which was just be-
fore me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat
here, some such thoughts as these occurred to
me:—
"What is this earth and sea of which I have
seen so much? Whence is it produced? and what
am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame,
human and brutal, whence are we? Sure we are
all made by some secret power, who formed the
earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is that?"
Then it followed most naturally, "It is God that
has made it all! Well, but," then it came on
strangely, " if God has made all these things, he
guides and governs them all, and all things that
concern them: for the power that could make all
things, must certainly have power to guide and di-
rect them. If so, nothing can happen in the great
circuit of his works, either without his knowledge
or appointment: and if nothing happens without
his knowledge, he knows that I am here, and am
in this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens
101
without his appointment, he has appointed all this
to befal me."
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me:
that 1 was brought to this miserable circumstance
by his direction, he having the sole power, not of
me only, but of ever}' thing that happened in the
world. Immediately it followed—vs Why has God
done this to me? What have I done to be thus
used?" My conscience presently checked me in
that enquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and me-
thought it spoke to me like a voice; "Wretch!
dost thou ask what thou hast done! Look back
upon a dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself what
thou hast not done! Ask, why is it that thou
wast not long ago destroyed? Why wast thou not
drowned in Yarmouth rqads? Killed in the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of
Africa? Or, drowned here, when all the crew
perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, « What have
I done?'"
I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no not to
answer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad,
walked back to my retreat, and went up over my
wall, as if 1 had been going to bed: but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no in-
clination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehension of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thoughts,
that the Brasilians take no physic but their tobacco,
I 3
for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a
roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was
quite cured, and some also that was green, and
not quite cured.
1 went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure for both soul and body. I
opened the chest, and found what I looked for,
viz. the tobacco: and as the few books I had saved
lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I
mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure or so much as inclination to look
into; I say, I took it out, and brought both that
and the tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco, I knew not,
as to my distemper, or whether it was good for it,
or no; but I tried several experiments with it, as
if I was resolved it should hit one way or other: I
first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my
mouth, which indeed at first almost stupified my
brain, the tobacco being green and strong, and I
not having been much used to it; then I took some
and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and
resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I
could bear it, as well for the heat, as the virtue of
it, till I was almost suffocated.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the
Bible and began to read: but my head was too
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading,
at least that time; only having opened the book
casually, the first words that appeared to me were
these—"Call on me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made
103
^ome4mpression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did
afterwards: for, as for being delivered, the word
had no meaning, as I may say, to me; the thing
was so remote, so impossible, in my apprehension
of tilings, that I began to say as the Children of
Israel did, when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness V so
I began to say, " Can God himself deliver me from
this place 1" And as it was not for many years
that any hope appeared, this prevailed very often
upon my thoughts. It now grew late, and the
tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much,
that I iuclined to sleep: so I left my lamp burning
in the cave, lest I should want any thing in the
night, and went to bed; but before I lay down, I
did what I had never done in all my life before, I
kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called upon him in the day
of trouble he would deliver me. After, my broken
and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in
which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that iudeed I
could scarce get it down; and immediately upon
this I wrent to bed. I found presently it flew up
into my head violently; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more, till by the sun, it must
necessarily be three o'clock in the afternoon the
next day: nay, to this hour I am partly of opinion,
that I slept all the next day and night, and till
almost three the day after; for otherwise I knew
not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning
in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after 1 had doue; for if I had lost it by crossing
and recrossing the line, I should have lost more
THE LIFE OF
than one day. But, in my account, it was lost,
and I never knew which way.
When I awaked, I found myself exceedingly re-
freshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful; when
I got up I was stronger than 1 was the day before,
and my stomach better, for I was hungry; and in
short, I had no fit the next day, but continued
much altered for the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand-goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of
the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine which I had sup-
posed did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco
steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as
before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my
head over the smoke: however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the first of July, as I
hoped I should have been; for I had a little of the
cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dosed myself with it as at first; and
doubled the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all,
though I did not recover my full strength for some
weeks after* While I was thus gathering strength,
my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture,
"I will deliver thee;" and the impossibility of my
deliverance lay much upon my mind in bar of my
ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging my-
self with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind,
that I pored so much upon my deliverance from
the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliver-
105
ance I had received; and I was, as it were, made
to ask myself such questions as these; viz. " Have
I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from
sickness; from the most distressed condition that
could be, and that was so frightful to me? and
what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my
part? God had delivered me; but I had not glo-
rified him: that is to say, I had not owned and
been thankful for that as a deliverance, and how
could I expect greater deliverance!" This touch-
ed my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery
from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile
every morning and night, not tying myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
would engage me. It was not long after I set
seriously to this work, but I found my heart more
deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness
of my past life; the impression of my dream re-
vived, and the words, "All these things have not
brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my
thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give
me repentance, when it happened providentially
the very day, that reading the scripture I came to
these words—" He is exalted a Prince and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give re-
mission I" I threw down the book, and with my
heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a
kind of ecstacy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus,
thou Son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince
and Saviour, give me repentance!"
This was the first time, that I could say, in the
THE LIFE OF
true sense of the words, that I prayed in all my
life: for now I prayed with a sense of my con-
, dition, and with a true scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the word of
God; and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, "Call on me, and T will deliver you," in a
different sense from what I had ever done before;
for then I had no notion of any thing being called
a deliverance, but my being delivered from the
captivity I was in; for though indeed I was at
large in the place, yet the island wtfs certainly a
prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the
world; but now I learned to take it in another
sense. Now I looked back upon my past life with
such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful,
that my soul sought nothing of God, but deliver-
ance from the load of guilt that bore down all my
comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it,
or think of it; it was all of no consideration in
comparison to this: and I add this part here, to
^ hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they
come to a true sense of things, they will find de-
liverance from sin a much greater blessing than
deliverance from affliction.
But leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier
to my mind; and my thoughts being directed by a
constant reading the scripture, and praying to God,
to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of
comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of;
my health and strength also returned, and! bestirred
107
myself to furnish me with every thing that I
wanted, and make my way of living as regular as
1 could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was,
and to what weakness 1 was reduced. The appli-
cation which I made use of was perfectly new, and
perhaps what had never cured an ague before,
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise
by this experiment: and though it did carry off
the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me;
for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time.
I learned from it, also, this in particular: that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my health that could be>
especially in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain
which came in a dry season was always most ac-
companied with such storms, so I found that rain
was much more dangerous than the rain which fell
in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above ten
months; ail possibility of deliverance from this
condition seemed to be entirely taken from me;
and I firmly believed, that no human shape had
ever set foot upon that place. Having now se-
cured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my
mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect
discovery of the island, and to see what other
productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing
of.
THE LIFE OF
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where I brought my rafts on
shore: I found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it
was no more than a little brook of running water,,
and very fresh and good; but this being the dry
season, there was hardly any water in some part&
of it, at least not enough to run in any stream, so
as it could be perceived. On the bank of this-
brook I found many pleasant savannas, or mea-
dows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and
on the rising parts of them, next to the higher
grounds, where the water, as it might be supposed,,
never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco*
green, and growing to a great and very strong
stalk; besides many other plants which I knew
nothing of.
I searched for the Cassava root, which the
Indians in all that climate make their bread of, but
I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but
did not then understand them; likewise several
sugar canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation,
imperfect. I contented myself with these dis-
coveries for this time, and came back musing with
myself what course I might take to know the
virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover, but could bring it to no
conclusion; for in short, I had made so little
observation while I was in the Brasils, that I knew
little of the plants in the field, at least very little
that might serve me to any purpose now in my
distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same
way again, and after going something further than
109
I had gone the day before, I found the brook and
the savannas began to cease, and the country be-
came raore woody than before. In this part I
found different fruits, and particularly I found
melons upon the ground in great abundance, and
grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread in-
deed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were
just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding
glad of them: but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them; remembering, that when
I was a-shore in Barbary, the eating of grapes
killed several of our English men, who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers.
But I found an excellent use for these grapes, and
that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep
them as dried grapes or raisins.
At night I took my first contrivance, and got up
into a tree, where I slept well; and the next morn-
ing proceeded upon my discovery, travelling near
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills
on the south and north side of me. At the end of
this march I came to an opening, where the coun-
try seemed to descend to the west, and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side
of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due
east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, every thing being in constant ver-
dure of spring, that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
vale, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
(though mixed with my other afflictive thoughts,)
to think that this was all my own; that 1 was king
and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had
THE LIFE OF
a right of possession; and, if I could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance, as completely as any
lord of a manor in England.* I saw here abun-
dance of cocoa trees/ orange, and *lemon, and
citron trees; but all wild, and.very few bearing
* We cannot deny ourselves the pleasure of adding
here the beautiful poem of the amiable Cowper.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
O, solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in this horrible place.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech >
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted, with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon man,
O, had I the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by, the sallies of youth.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the sound of the church-going bell
These vallies and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when the sabbath appear'd.
Ill
any fruit, at least not then. However, the green
limes that I gathered, were not only pleasant to
eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice
afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
some, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather
and carry home; and 1 resolved to lay up a stored
as well of grapes, as limes and lemons, to furnish
myself for the wet season, which I knew was ap-
proaching. In order to do this, I gathered a
great heap of grapes in one place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and
taking a few of each with me I travelled home-
ward, and resolved to come again, and bring a
Ye winds, that have made me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift-winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there j
But alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in his lair,
E'en here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace;
And reconciles man to his lot.
THE LIFE OF
bag or sack, or what J could make, to carry the
rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home, (so I must now call my
tent and cave;) but before I got thither, the
"grapes were spoiled: the richness of the fruit and
the weight of juice having broken them, and
'bruised them, they were good for little or nothing;
as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back,
having made me two small bags to bring home my
harvest: but I was surprised, when coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when.
I gathered them, 1 found them all spread about,
trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here,
some there; and abundance eaten and devoured.
By this I concluded, there were some wild crea-
tures thereabouts, which had done this, but what
they were I knew not. However, as I found that
there was no laying them up on heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack, but that one way
they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, 1 took
another course: for I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them up upon the out
branches of the trees, that they might cure and
dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons,
1 carried as many back as I could well stand
under.
When 1 came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the
security from storms on that side the water, and
the wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon
113
a place to fix my abode which was by far the worst
part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to
consider of removing ray habitation; and to look
out for a place equally safe, as where I now was-
situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of
the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was
exceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness
of the place tempting me: but when I came to a
nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now
by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that
something might happen to my advantage, and by
the same ill fate that brought me hither, might
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place; and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen, yet to inclose my-
self among the hills and woods, in the centre of the
island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to
render such an affair not only improbable, but
impossible; upon second thoughts, I resolved not
to remove. Yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between with
brushwood: and here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three nights together, always going over it
with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I
had my country-house, and my sea-coast-house.
This work took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began
to enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and
made me stick close to my first habitation; for
though I had made me a tent like the other, with
a piece of a sail, and spread \t very well, yet I had
not the shelter of a hill to keep me from the
K 3
THE LIFE OF
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into, when
the rains were extraordinary.
The third of August, I found tljie grapes I had
hung up were perfectly dried, and, indeed, were
excellent good raisins of the sun: so I began to
take them down from the trees, and it was very
happy that I did so; for the rains whicft followed
would have spoiled them, and I had lost the best*
part of my winter food, for I had above two hun-
dred large bunches of them. No sooner had I
taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain: and from
that day, which was the fourteenth of August, it
rained more or less every day, till the middle of
October; and sometimes so violently, that I could
not stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the
increase of my family: I had been concerned for
the loss of one of my cats, which ran away from
me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard
no more tidings of her, till to my astonishment she
came home about the end of August, with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, be-
cause, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called
it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a
different kind from our European cats; yet the
young cats were the same kind of house-breed like
the old one; and both my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three
cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with
cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin or
wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as
much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very
115
careful not to be much wet. In this confinement
I began to be straitened for food: but venturing
out twice, I ojje clay killed a goat; and the last
day, which was the 26th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me. And my food
was regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for
my>breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the
* turtle* for my dinner, broiled, (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any
thing;) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
supper.
During this confinement in my cover, by the
rain, 1 worked daily two or three hours at enlarg-
ing my cave: and, by degrees, worked it on
towards one side, till I came to the outside of the
hill, and made a door or way out, which came
beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in and
out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open: for as I had managed myself be-
fore, I was in a perfect inclosure; whereas now 1
thought 1 lay exposed; and *yet I could npt per-
ceive that there was any living thing to fear, the
biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the
island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landing: I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on
shore three hundred and sixty-five days. 1 kept
this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a
religious exercise, prostrating myself to the ground
with the most serious humiliation, confessing my-
self to God, acknowledging his righteous judgment
upon me, and praying to him to have mercy upon
me, through Jesus Christ; and not having tasted
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the
THE LIFE OF
going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake
and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it.
I had all this time observed no sabbath-day:
for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my
mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch thaif ordinary
for the sabbath-day, and so did not really* know
what any of the days were; but now having cast
up the days as above, I found I had been there a
year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart
every seventh day for a sabbath; though I found
at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two
of my reckoning.
A little after this, my ink began to fail me, and
so I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and
to write down only the most remarkable events of
my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began
now to appear regular to me, and I learned to di-
vide them so as to provide for them accordingly.
But I bought all my experience before I had it;
and this I am going to relate, was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made at all. I
have mentioned, that I had saved the few ears of
barley and rice which I had so surprisingly found
spring up, as I thought of themselves, and believe
they were about thirty stalks of rice, and about
twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper
lime to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its
southern position going from me.
Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground, as well
as I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was
117
sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts, that
1 would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed
about two-thirds of the seeds, leaving about a
handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time
came to any thing; for the dry months following,
the earth having had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and
never came up at all, till the wet season had come
again, and then it grew as if it had been newly
sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I
easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a
moister piece of ground to make another trial in,
and I dug up a piece of ground near my new
bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February,
a little before the vernal equinox; and this, having
the rainy months of March aud April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good
crop: but having part of the seed only left, and not
daring to sow all I had yet, I had but a small
quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to
above half a peck of each kind. But by this ex-
perience I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow;
and that I might expect two seed-times, and two
harvests, every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As
soon as the rains were over, and the weather began
to settle, which was about the month of November,
I made a visit up the country to my bower, where,
though 1 had not been some months, yet I found
all things just as I left them. The circle or double
hedge that I had made, was not only firm and
entire, but the stalks which I had cut off some
trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out, and
grown with long branches, as much as a willow-
tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its
head. I could not tell what tree to call it, that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and
yet very well pleased, to see the young trees grow;
and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as
much alike as 1 could: and it is scarce credible,
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years;
so that though the hedge made a circle of about
twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for
such I might now call them, soon covered it; and
it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under
all the dry seasons.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes,
and make me a hedge like this in a semi-circle
round my wall, (I mean, that of my first dwelling,)
which I did; and, placing the trees or stakes in a
double row, at above eight yards distance from
my first fence, they grew presently, and were at
first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its
order.
I found now, that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer
and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy sea-
sons, and the dry seasons, which were generally
thus:—
A^n^Fe^I 1 Rainy, the sun being then on or
j '-the equinox.
119
Half April ^
All May
Dry, the sun being then to the
nortii of the line.
June
July
Half Aug.
Half Aug.
All Sept. y
Half Oct. J
Half Oct.
All Nov. I
Rainy, the sun being then come
back.
Dry, the sun being then to the
south of the line.
Jan.
Half Feb.
Dec. J>
The rainy season sometimes held longer or
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this
was the general observation I made. After I had
found, by experience, the ill consequence of being
abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself
with provisions beforehand, that I might not be
obliged to go out; and I sat within doors as much
as possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment, (and
very suitable also to the time,) for I found great
occasion of many things which I had no way to
furnish myself with, but by hard labour and con-
stant application: particularly, I tried many ways
to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose, proved so brittle, that they
would do nothing. It proved of excellent advan-
tage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used to
take great delight in standing at a basket-makers
in the town where my father lived, to see them
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very officious to help, and a great
THE LIFE OF
observer of the manner how thev worked those
things, and sometimes lent a hand, I had by this
means so full knowledge of the methods of it, that
I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came
into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from
whence I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly
be as tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers,
in England; and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day, I went to my coun-
try-house, as I called it, and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire; whereupon 1 came the
next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a
quantity, which I soon found, for there was great
plenty of them: these I set up to dry within my
circle or hedge, and when they were lit for use, I
carried them to my cave. And here, during the
next season, I employed myself in making, as well
as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry
earth, or to carry or lay up any thing as I had oc-
casion: and though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently service-
able for my purpose; especially I made strong-
deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see,
if possible, how to supply two wants: I had no
vessels to hold any thing that was liquid, except
two runlets which were almost full of rum, and
some glass bottles. I had not so much as a pot to
boil any thing, except a great kettle which I saved
out of the ship, and which was too big fpr such
uses as. I desired it for, viz. to make broth, and stew
121
a- bit of meat by itself. The second thing I would
fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe; but it was im-
possible for me to make one: however I found a»
contrivance for that too at last.
I mentioned before, that 1 had a great mind to
see the whole island, and that I had travelled up.
the brook, and so on to where I built my bower,*
and where I had an opening quite to the sea on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel
quite across to the sea-shore on that side: so
taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of rai-
sins in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey.
When I had passed the vale where my bower stood,
as before, I came within view of the sea, to the
west, and it being a very clear day, I fairly des-
cried land, whether an island or a continent, I
could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from
the west to the W. S. W. at a very great distance;
by my guess it could not be less than fifteen or
twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew that it must be part
of America; and as I concluded by all my observa-
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where if I
should have landed, I had been in a worse condi-
tion than I was now, and, therefore, I acquiesced
in the dispositions, which -I began now to own, and
to believe, ordered every thing for the best.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island where I
now was, much pleasanter than mine, the open
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and;
L
THE LIFE OF
full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of par-
rots, and I would fain have caught one, if possible,
to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak
to me. I did, after some pains taking, catch a
young parrot: for I knocked it down with a stick,
and having recovered it, I brought it home; but it
was some years before I could make him speak.
However, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all
the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I
had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too; especi-
ally goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise; which,,
added to my grapes, Leadenhall-market could not
have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company: and though my case was de-
plorable enough, yet 1 had great cause for thank-
fulness, and that I was not driven to any extremities
for food; but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so
many turns and returns to see what discoveries I
could make, that I came weary enough to the
place where I resolved to sit down for all night;
and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or
surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright
in the ground, either from one tree to another, or
so, as no wild creature could come at me, without
waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was sur-
prised to see that I had taken up my lot on the
123
worst side of the island; for here indeed the shore
was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on
the other side I habl found but three in a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls,
of many kinds, some of which I had not seen be-
fore, and many of them very good meat: but such
as I knew not the names of, except those called
penguins.
I confess this side of the country was much
pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least
inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my
habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed
all the while I was here, to be as it were upon a
journey, and from home: however I travelled
along the sea-shore, towards the east, I suppose
about twelve miles; and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I
would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east
from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my
post again.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid,
and seized upon it, and I, running to take hold of
it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I
had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for
I had often been musing, whether it might not be
possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my
powder and shot should be all spent.
I made a collar to this little creature, arid with
a string which I made of some rope-yarn which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till 1 came to my bower, and
there I inclosed him, and left him; for I was very
impatient to be at home, from whence 1 had been
THE LIFE OF
absent above a month. I cannot express what a
satisfaction it was to me, to come into my old
hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This
Jitlle wandering journey, without settled place of
abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect
settlement to me, compared to that; a,nd it ren-
dered every thing about me so comfortable, that
I resolved I would never go a great way from it
again, while it should be my lot to stay on the
island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
.myself after my long journey; during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be
a near domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had penned in within my little circle, and
resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some
food: accordingly I went and found it where I left
it; for indeed it could not get out, but was almost
starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs
of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could
find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it
as I did before, to lead it away: but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I con-
tinually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave
me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
same solemn manner as before, being the anniver-
sary of my landing on the island, having now been
125
there two years, and no more prospect of being
delivered than the first day I came there. I spent
the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledg-
ments of the many wonderful mercies which my
solitary condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy this life I now led was, with all its
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past part of my days:
and now I changed both my sorrows and my joys;
my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new,
from what they were at my first coming, or indeed
for the two years past. Before, as I walked about,
either on my hunting, or for viewing the country,
the anguish of my soul at my condition, would
break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart
would die within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, and the deserts I was in; and how I
was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars
and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilder-
ness, without redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this would break
out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my
hands, and weep like a child. Sometimes it would
take me in the middle of my work, and I would
immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: and this was
still worse to me; for if I could burst out into
tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and
the grief having exhausted itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and ap-
plied all the comforts of it to my present state.
L 3
THE LIFE OF
One morning being very sad, I opened the Bible
upon these words—" I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee 1" Immediately it occurred, that
these words were to me; why else should they be
directed in such a manner, just at the moment
when I was mourning over my condition, as one
forsaken of God and man? "Well then," said I,
"if God does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it, though the
world should all forsake me, seeing on the other
hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the
favour and blessing of God, there would be no
comparison in the loss.
I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very
soul within me blessed God for directing my friend
in England, without any order of mine, to pack it
up among my goods, and for assisting me after-
wards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began
my third year; and though I have not given the
reader the trouble of so particular an account of
my works this year as the first, yet in general it
may be observed, that I was very seldom idle: but
having regularly divided my time, according to the
several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, my duty to God, and the reading the
scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time
for, thrice every day. Secondly, the going abroad
with my gun for food, which generally took me up
three hours in every morning, when it did not rain*
Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed or catched for my supply.
These took up great part of the day: also it is to
be considered, that the middle of the day, when the
sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was
12?
too great to stir out; so that about four hours in
the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I
changed my hours of hunting and working, and
went to work in the morning, and abroad with my
.gun in the afternoon. To this short time allowed
for labour, I desire may be added the exceeding
laboriousness of my work, the many hours which
for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill,
every thing I did, took up of my time. For ex-
ample, I was full two and forty days making me a
board for a long shelf, which 1 wanted in my cave:
whereas two sawyers, with their tools and. saw-pit*
would have cut six of them out of the same tree in
half a day.
My case was this: it was to be a large tree
which was to be cut down, because my board was
to be a broad one. The tree 1 was three days in
cutting down, and two more in.cutting off the
boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of tim-
ber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing I
reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it began
to be light enough to move; then 1 turned it, and
made one side of it smooth, and flat, as a board
from end to end; then turning that side downward,
cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such
a piece of work; but labour and patience carried
me through that and many other things. 1 only
observe this in particular, to shew the reason why
so much of my time went away with so little work;
viz. that what might be a little to be done with
help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a
prodigious time to do alone, and by hand..
THE LIFE OF
But notwithstanding this, with patience and la-
bour I went through many things, and indeed
every thing that my circumstances made necessary
to me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and
December, expecting my crop of barley and rice.
The ground I had manured or dug up for them
was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each
was not above the quantity of half a peck; having
lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season.
But now my crop promised very well, when on a
sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was
scarce possible to keep from it: as first, the goats,
and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close,
that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an in-
closure about it with a hedge; which I did with a
great deal of toil, and the more, because it required
speed. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it all well fenced in
about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it
in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long: so
in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and
the corn grew very strong and well, and began to
ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my
corn was in the blade, so the birds were as likely
to ruin me now, when it was in the ear: for going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not
120
how many sorts, who stood as it were watching
till I should be gone; so I immediately let fly
among them, (for I always had my gun with me).
I had no sooner shot but there rose up a little
cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself. This touched me sensibly;
for I foresaw, that in a few days they would devour
all my hopes, and I should be starved, and never
be able to raise a crop at all, and what to do I
could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose my
corn, if possible, though I should watch it night
and day. In the first place, I went among it to see
what damage was already done, and found they
had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was
yet too green for them, the loss was not so great,
but that the remainder was like to be a good crop
if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming
away I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone away: and the event proved it to be so; for
as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner
out of their sight, but they dropped clown one by
one into the corn again. I was so provoked that I
could not have patience to stay till more came on,
knowing* that every grain that they ate now was, as
it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
tjuence; but coming up to the hedge, 1 fired again,
and killed three of them. This was what I wished
for: so 1 took them up, and served them as
serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged
them in chains for a terror to others. It is almost
impossible to imagine, that this should have such
au erfect as it had; for the fowls would not only
not come at the corn, but in short they forsook all
THE LIFE OF
that part of the island, and I could never see a
bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung
there. This I was very glad otj you may be sure;
and,about the latter end of December, which was
our second harvest of the year, I reaped my crop.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to
cut it down, and all I could do was to make one
as well as I could out of one of the broad swords
or cutlasses which I saved among the arms out of
the ship. However, as my first crop was but
small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down: in
short, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off
but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket
which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my
hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I
found that out of my half peck of seed, I had near
two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a
half of barley, that is to say, by my guess, for I
had no measure at that time. This was a great
encouragement to me: and I foresaw that in time
it would please God to supply me with bread.
And yet here I was perplexed again: for I neither
knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good
quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply,
I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to
preserve it all for seed against the next season, and
in the mean time to employ all my study and hours
of working to accomplish this great work of pro-
viding myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
131
few people have thought much upon, viz. the
strange multitude of little things necessary in the
providing, producing, curing, dressing, making,
and finishing this one article of bread. I that was
reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my
daily discouragement, and was made more and
more sensible of it every hour, even after I had got
the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have
said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no
spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered>
by making a wooden spade, as I observed before;
but this did my work in but a wooden manner;
and though it cost me a great many days to make
it, yet for want of iron it not only wore out the
sooner, but made my work the harder, and made
it be performed much worse. This I bore with,
and was content to work it out with patience, and
bear with the badness of the performance. When
the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it
was growing and grown, I have observed already
how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash,
part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted
a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt
to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it: and
yet all these things I did without, and the corn was
an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too.
I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till 1
had a greater quantity by me: I had the next six
months to apply myself wholly by labour and
THE LIFE OF
invention to furnish myself with utensils proper for
the performing all the operations necessary for the
making the corn (when I had it) fit for use.
But first, I was to prepare more land, for I had
now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground.
Before I did this, I had a week's work at least to
make me a spade, which when it was done was but
a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required
double labour to work with it: however I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off that
wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow, so that in one year's time I knew I should
have a quick or living hedge that would want hut
little repair. This work took me up three months,
because great part of that time was of the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Within
doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go
out, I found employment on the following occa-
sions: always observing, that all the while I was
at work I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot, and teaching him to speak; and he quickly
learned to know his own name, and at last to
speak it out pretty loud, "Pollwhich was the
first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any
mouth but my own. I had long studied, by some
means or other, to make myself some earthen
vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew
not where to come at them: however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out any such clay, I might botch up
some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun,
be hard enough, and strong enough to bear
133
handling-, and to hold any thing that was dry, and
required to be kept so; and as this was necessary
in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large
as I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold
what should be put in them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather
laugh at me, to tell how many awkward ways I
took to raise this paste, and what odd misshapen
ugly things I made: how many of them fell in, and
how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough
to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the
over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too
hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only
removing, as well before as after they were dried;
and in a word, how, after having laboured hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home and work it, I could not make above two
large earthen ugly things, I cannot call them jars,
in about two months' labour. As the sun baked
these two very dry and hard, I lifted them up, and
set them down again in two great wicker baskets,
which I had made on purpose for them, that they
might not break; and as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it
full of the rice and barley straw, and these two
pots being to stand always dry, I thought would
hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success; such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers and pipkins, and any thing my
hand turned to, and the heat of the sun baked
them strangely hard. But all this would not
M
THE LIFE OF
answer ray end, which was to get an earthen pot
to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It happened after some
time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when I went to put it out after 1 had done
with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably sur-
prised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, if they would
burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of
a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing
them with lead, though I had some lead to do it
with; but I placed three large pipkins and two or
three pots in a pile one upon another, and placed
my firewood all round it with a great heap of em-
bers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel
round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the
pots in the inside red hot quite through, and ob-
served that they did not crack at all; and when I
saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass
if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually,
till the pots began to abate of the red colour,
watching them all night, that I might not let the
fire abate too fast, and in the morning I had three
very good, 1 will not say handsome, pipkins, and
two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be
desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with
the running of the sand.
135
After this experiment, I wanted no sort of
earthenware for my use; but as to the shapes of
them, they were very indifferent, as any one may
suppose, when 1 had no way of making them, but
as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman
would make pies that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly
patience to stay till they were cold, before I set
one upon the fire again, with some water in it, to
boil some meat, which it did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth,
though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingre-
dients requisite to make it so good as 1 would have
had it been.
iMy next concern was, to get a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill,
there was no thought at arriving to that perfection
of art, with one pair of hands. To supply this
want I was at a great loss: for of all trades in the
world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any
tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to
find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow,
and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at
all, except what was in the solid rock, and which
I had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were
the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would
neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand:
so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a great block of hard wood, which I found
THE LIFE OF
indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I
had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on
the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then,
with the help of fire and infinite labour, made a
-hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brasil make
'their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle, of the wood called the iron-wood, and this
I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop
of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or
rather pound, my corn into meal to make my
bread.- My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and
the husk, without which I did not see it possible L
could have any bread. This was a most difficult
thing, for I had nothing like the necessary thing to
make it; I mean fine thin canvas, or stuft* to
search the meal through. And here 1 was stopped
>for many months; nor did I really know what to
•do: linen I had none left, but what was mere
Tags; I had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to
weave it, or spin it; and had I known how, here
was no tools to work it with. All the remedy that
I found for this, was, that at last I did remember
I had among the seamen's clothes which were
saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico
or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made
three small sieves, proper enough for the work;
and thus I made shift for some years.
The baking part was the next thing to be con-
sidered, and how I should make bread when I
came to have corn: for first I had no yeast; but
-as there was no supplying that want, so I did not
concern myself much about it. But for an oven I
was indeed in great pain. At length I found out
an experiment for that also, which was this: I
137
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep; that is to say, about two feet diameter, and
not above nine inches deep; these I burnt in the
fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire on
my hearth, which I had paved with some tiles of
my own making and burning. When the fire-wood
was burnt pretty much into embers, or live coals,
I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to
cover it all over, and there I let them He, till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pot upon them, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep
in, and add to the heat: and thus, as well as in
the best oven in the world, I baked my barley-
loaves, and became in a little time a mere pastry-
cook into the bargain; for I made myself several
cakes of the rice and puddings; indeed I made no
pies, neither had I any thing to put into them,
supposing I had, except the flesb either of fowls
or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things
took me up most part of the third year of my
abode here: for it is to be observed, that in the
intervals of these things, I had my new harvest
and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my corn
in its season, and carried it home as well as I
could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large bas-
kets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it
with. And now indeed my stock of com increas-
ing, I really wanted to build my barns bigger. I
wanted a place to lay it up in; for the increase of
the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of
M 3
THE LIFE OF
the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice as
much, or more: insomuch, that now I resolved to
begin to use it freely; for my bread had been quite
gone a great while, and I found that the forty
bushels of barley and rice was much more than I
could consume in a year. So I resolved to sow
just the same quantity every year that I sowed the
last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully
provide me with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you may
be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the
prospect of land which I had seen from the other
side of the island, and T was not without secret
wishes that I was on shore there; fancying that
seeing the main land, and an inhabited country, I
might find some way or other to convey myself
further, and perhaps at last find some means of
escape. But I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might
have reason to think far worse than the lions and
tigers of Africa. That if I once came into their
power, I should run a hazard more than a thou-
sand to one of being killed.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-
boat, with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which
I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of
Africa; but this was in vain. Then I thought I
would go and look at our ship s boat, which, as I
have said, was blown upon the shore a great way
in the storm, when we were first cast away. She
lay almost where she did at first, and was turned
by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upwards, against a high ridge of beachy
rough sand, but no water about her. If I had had
139
hands to have refitted her, and to have launched
her into the water, the boat would have done very
well, and 1 might have gone back into the Brasils
with her easily enough; but I might have foreseen,
that I could no more turn her, and set her upright
upon her bottom, than I could remove the island.
However, I went to the woods and cut levers and
rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to
try what I could do; suggesting to myself, that if
I could but turn her down, I might easily repair
the damage she had received, and she would be a
very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very
easily. I spared no pains indeed, in this piece of
fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three or four
weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to
heave it up with my little strength, I fell to digging
awav the sand to undermine it, and so to make it
fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it right in the fall. But when I had done
this, 1 was unable to stir it up again, or to get
under it, much less to move it forward towards the
water; so I was forced to give it over: and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my de-
sire to venture over for the main increased, rather
than decreased, as the means for it seemed im-
possible.
This at length put me upon thinking, whether
it was not possible to make myself a canoe, such
as the natives of those climates make, even with-
out tools, or, as I might say, without hands, viz.
of the trunk of a great tree. This I, not; only
thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself
extremely with the thoughts of making it, and with
having much more convenience for it than any of
the Negroes or Indians: but not at all considering
THE LIFE OF
the particular inconveniences which I lay under,
more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands to
move it, when it was made, into the water; a dif-
ficulty much harder for me to surmount, than all
the consequences of want of tools could be to
them.
One would have thought, I could not have had
the least recollection upon my mind of my circum-
stances, while I was making this boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into
the sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon my
voyage over the sea in it, that J never once consi-
dered how I should get it off the land; and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide
it over forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-five
fathom of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the
water,
I went to work upon this boat the most like a
fool that ever a man did, who had any of his
senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without deter-
mining whether I was ever able to undertake it:
not but that the difficulty of launching my boat
came frequently into my head; but I put a stop
to my enquiries into it, by this foolish answer
which I gave myself, "Let me first make it, I'll
warrant 111 find some way or other to get it along,
when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I
went. I felled a cedar tree: (I question much
whether Solomon ever had such a one for the
building of the temple at Jerusalem). It was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the
stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the
end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for
a while, and then parted into branches. It was
not without infinite labour that I felled this tree:
I was twenty days hacking and hewing it at the
bottom. I was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut
off, which I hacked and hewed through with axe
and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After this,
it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a
boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the in-
side, and work it out so as to make an exact boat
of it: this I did indeed without fire, by mere mallet'
and chisel, and by dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big
enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and
consequently big enough to have carried me and
all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or periagua,
that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a
weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure; and
there remained nothing but to get it into the
M ater: and had I gotten it into the w ater, I make
no question, but that I should have begun the
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be per-
formed, that ever was undertaken. But all my
devices to get it into the water failed me, though
they cost me infinite labour too.
It lay about one hundred yards from the water,
and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take awav
this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the
THE LIFE OF
surface of the earth, and so make a declivity: this
I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains;
but who grudges pains that have their deliverance
in view? But when this was worked through, and
this difficult}' managed, it was still much at one;
for I could no more stir the canoe, than I could
the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I
began this work: but when I began to enter into
it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how
broad, and how the stuff to be thrown out, I found,
that by the number of hands I had, being none
but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years
before I should have gone through with it; for the
shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must
have been at least twenty feet deep; so at length,
though with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt
over. This grieved me heartily; and now I saw,
though too late, the folly of beginning a work
before we calculate the cost, and before we judge
rightly of our own strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with
the same devotion, and with as much comfort as
ever before; for by a constant study, and serious
application of the word of God, and by the assist-
ance of his grace, I gained different knowledge
from what I had before. I entertained different
notions of things. I looked now upon the world
as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with,
no expectation from, and indeed no desires about:
in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor
was ever like to have; so I thought it looked as
143
we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a
place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and
well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives,
"Between me and thee there is a great gulph
fixed /'
In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here; I had neither the
lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life. I had nothing to covet; for I had all that
I was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the
whole manor; or if I pleased, I might call myself
king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of. There were no rivals: I had
no competitor, none to dispute my sovereignty or
command with me. I might have raised ship
loadings of corn; but I had no use for it: so I let
as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion.
I had tortoises or turtles enough; but now and
then one was as much as I could put to any use,
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships.
I had grapes enough to have made wine, or cured
into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it had
been built. But all that I could make use of, was
all that was valuable. I had enough to eat, and to
supply my wants, and, what was all the rest to
me? If 1 killed more flesh than I could eat, the
dog must eat it, or the vermin. If I sowed more
corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled. The
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
ground: I could make no more use of them than
for fuel; and that I had no occasion for, but to
dress my food. In a word, the nature and expe-
rience of things dictated to me, upon just reflec-
tion, that all the good things of this world are no
further good to us than they are for our use; and
THE LIFE OF
that whatever we may heap up indeed to give
others, we enjoy just as much as we can use, and
no more. The most covetous griping* miser in the
world would have been cured of the vice of covet-
ousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I
had no room for desire, except it was of things
which I had not, and they were but trifles, though
indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted be-
fore, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver,
about thirty-six pounds sterling: alas! there the
nasty sorry useless stuff lay; I had no manner of
business for it; and I often thought with myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross
of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my
corn; nay, I would have given it all for six-penny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England,
or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of
ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by
it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer,
and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave, in
the wet season: and if I had had the drawer full
of diamonds, it had been the same case; and they
had been of no manner of value to me, because of
no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and ad-
mired the hand of Gods providence, which had
thus spread my table in the wilderness. I learned
to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side; and to consider what
I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted: and this
gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I
145
cannot express them; and which I take notice of
here, to put those discontented people in mind of
it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God hath
given them, because they see and covet something
that he has not given them. All our discontents
about what we want, appeared to me to spring
from the want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall
into such distress as mine was: and this was to
compare my present condition with what I at first
expected it would be; nay, with what it would
certainly have been, if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
nearer the shore, where I not only could come at
her, but could bring what I could get out of her
to the shore, for my relief and comfort; without
which, I had wanted tools to work, weapons for
defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my
food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in
representing to myself in the most lively colours,
how I must have acted, if I had got nothing out of
the ship: how I could not have so much as got
any food except fish and turtles; and that, as it
was long before I found any of them, I must have
perished first; that I should have lived, if I had
not perished, like a mere savage. These reflec-
tions made me very sensible of the goodness of
Providence to me, and very thankful for my pre-
sent condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt in their
misery to say, "Is any affliction like mine!" Let
them consider, how much worse the cases of some
N
THE LIFE OF
people are, and what their cases might have been,
if Providence had thought fit.
I had another reflection which assisted me also
to comfort my mind with hopes: and this was,
comparing my present condition with what I had
deserved, and had therefore reason to expect from
the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful
life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear
of God. I had been well instructed by father and
mother; neither had they been wanting to me in
their early endeavours, to infuse a religious awe of
God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and of
what the nature and end of my being required of
me. But alas! falling early into the sea-faring
life, which of all lives is the most destitute of the
fear of God, though his terrors are always before
them; I say, falling early into the sea-faring life,
and into sea-faring company, all that little sense of
religion which I had entertained, was laughed out
of me by my messmates, by a hardened despising
of dangers, and the views of death, which grew
habitual to me, by my long absence from all man-
ner of opportunities to converse with any thing but
what was like myself, or to hear any thing that
was good, or tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or
of the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that
in the greatest deliverance I enjoyed, I had never
once the words, "Thank God," so much as on my
mind, or in my mouth; nor, in the greatest dis-
tress, had I so much thought as to pray to him;
or so much as to say, "Lord have mercy upon
me!" no, not to mention the name of God, unless
it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for
147
many months, as I have already observed, on the
account, of my wicked and hardened life past: and
when I looked about me, and considered what
particular providences had attended me since my
coining into this place, and how God had dealt
bountifully with me; had not only punished me
less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so
plentifully provided for me; this gave me great
hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that
God had yet mercy in store for me.
I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help, were either
quite gone, or very much wasted and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some
time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water a little and a little, till it was so pale it
scarce left any appearance of black upon the
paper.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was
that of my bread; I mean the biscuit whicb I
brought out of the ship: this I had husbanded to
the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of
bread a day, for above a year, and yet 1 was quite
without bread for near a year before I got any
corn of my own; and great reason I had to be
thankful that I had any at all, the getting it be-
ing, as has been already observed, next to mira-
culous.
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to
linen, I had had none a good while, except some
checked shirts which I found in the chests of the
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved,
because many times I could bear no other clothes
on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me
that I had among all the mens clothes of the ship
THE LIFE OF
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also
several thick watch-coats of the seamen, which
were left behind, but they were too hot to wear:
and though it is true, that the weather was so
violently hot that there was no need of clothes,
yet I could not go quite naked; no, though I had
been inclined to it, which I was not, nor could 1
abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
The reason why I could not go quite naked,
was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well
when quite naked as with some clothes on; nay,
the very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas
with a shirt on, the hair itself made some motion,
and whistling under the shirt, was two-fold cooler
than without it. No more could I bring myself to
go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or hat:
the heat of the sun beating with such violence as
it does in that place, would give me the head-ache
presently, by darting so directly on my head, with-
out a cap or a hat on, so that I could not bear it;
but if I put on my hat, it would presently go
away.
I now began to consider about putting the few
rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order.
I had worn out all my waistcoats, and my business
was now to try if I could not make jackets out of
the great watch-coats which I had by me, and
with such other materials as I had: so I set to
work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a botching;
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I
made shift to make two or three new waistcoats,
which I hoped would serve me a great while; as
for breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry
shift indeed till afterwards. I have mentioned,
that I saved the skins of all the four-footed crea-
149
tures that I killed, and hung them up stretched
out with sticks in the sun; by which means some
of them were so dry and hard that they were fit
for little, but others were very useful. The first
thing I made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside to shoot off the rain;
and this I performed so well, that after this I made
a suit of clothes wholly of those skins, that is to
say, a waistcoat and breeches open at the knees,
and both loose, for they were rather wanting to
keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly
made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse
tailor. However, they were such as I made a very
good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it
happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being outermost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains
to make an umbrella. I was indeed in great want
of one, and had a great mind to make one: I had
seen them made in the Brasils, where they are very
useful in the great heats which are there; and I
felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, k was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before I coujd make any thing likely to hold; nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or
three before I made one to my mind: but at last I
made one that answered indifferently well. The
main difficulty I found was to make it to let down:
I could make it to spread, but if it did not let
down too, and draw in, it was not portable for me
any way but just over ray head, which would not
"N 3
THE LIFE OF
do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to
answer, and covered it with skins, the hair up-
wards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house,
and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could
walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater
advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, I could close it and
carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of
his providence. I cannot say, that after this, for
five years, any extraordinary thing happened to
me; but I lived on in the same course, in the same
posture and place, just as before. The chief thing
I was employed in, besides my yearly labour of
planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins,
of both which 1 always kept up just enough to
have sufficient stock for one year's provision be-
forehand; I say, besides this yearly labour, and
my daily labour of going out with my gun, I had
one labour to make me a canoe, which at last I
finished; so that by digging a canal to it of six
feet wide, and four feet deep, 1 brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which
was so vastly big, as I made it without considering
beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should be
able to launch it; so never being able to bring it to
the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to
let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser next time: indeed, the next time,
though I could <not get a tree proper for it, and in
a place where I could not get the water to it, at
any less distance than as I have said, near half a
mile^iiyet as I saw it practicable at last, I never
151
gave it over; and though I was near two years
about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes
of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the
design which I had in view, when I made the first:
I mean, of venturing over to the Terra Firma,
where it was above forty, miles broad. Accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an
end to that design, and now I thought no more of
it: but, as I had a boat, my next design was to
make a tour round the island; for, as I had been
on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land; so the disco-
veries I made in that little journey, made me very
eager to see other parts of the coast; and now I
had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round
the island. For this purpose, that I might do
every thing with discretion and consideration, I
fitted up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail
to it out of the pieces of the ship's sail, which lay
in store, and of which I had a great stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the
boat, I found she would sail very well: then I
made little lockers, or boxes, at either end of my
boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and ammuni-
tion, &c. into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or
the spray of the sea; and a little long hollow
place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to
keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern,
like a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the
heat of the sun off me like an awning; and thus I
every now and then took a little voyage upon the
THE LIFE OF
sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little
creek: but at last being eager to view the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
tour, and accordingly I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes
I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice, (a food I ate a
great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a goat,
and powder and shot for killing more, and two
large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests;
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to
cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year
of my reign, or my captivity, which you please,
that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much
longer than I expected: for though the island
itself was not very large, yet when I came to the
east side of it, 1 found a great ledge of rocks lie
out above two leagues into the sea, some above
water, some under it; and beyond this, a shoal of
sand, lying dry half a league more; so that I was
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that
point. When first I discovered them, I was going
to give over my enterprise, and come back again,
not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out
to sea; and above all, doubting how I should get
back again; so I came to an anchor; for I had
made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken
graplin, which I had got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and
went on shore, climbing upon a hill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent
of it, and resolved to venture. In my viewing the
sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a
153
strong, and, indeed, a most furious current, which
ran to the east, and even came close to the point;
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw
there might be some danger, that when I came
into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
strength of it, and not be able to make the island
again: and indeed, had I not gotten first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there
was the same current on the other side of the
island, only that it set off at a further distance;
and 1 saw there was a strong eddy under the
shore; so that I had nothing to do but to get in
out of the first current, and I should presently be
in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days: because the
wind blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E. and that
being just contrary to the said current, made a
great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it
was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore
for the breach, nor to go too far off because of the
stream. The third day in the morning, the wind
having abated over night, the sea was calm, and I
ventured. But I am a warning-piece again to all
rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I
come to the point, when even I was not my boat's
length from the shore, but I found myself in a
great depth of water, and a current like the sluice
of a mill: it carried my boat along with it with
such violence, that all I could do, could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I found
it hurried me further and further out from the
eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no
wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with
my paddles signified nothing. And now I began
to give myself over for lost: for, as the current
THE LIFE OF
was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues distance they must join again, and then I
was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possi-
bility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect
before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for
that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big
almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the
boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is
to say, one of my earthen pots: but what was all
this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to
be sure, there was no shore, no main land, or
island, for a thousand leagues at least.
And now I saw how easy it was for the provi-
dence of God to make the most miserable condition
mankind could be in, worse. Now I looked back
upon my desolate solitary island, as the most plea-
sant place in the world; and all the happiness my
heart could wish for, was to be there again. I
stretched out my hand to it with eager wishes:
"O happy desert!" said I, "I shall never see
thee more. O miserable creature!" said I, t( whi-
ther ,am I going'?" Then'I reproached myself
with my unthankful temper, and how I had repin-
ed at my solitary condition; and now what would
I give to be on shore there again? Thus we never
see the true state of our condition, till it is illus-
trated to us by its contraries; nor know how to
value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is
scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for
so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost de-
spair of ever recovering it again. However, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost
155
exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the
northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as I possibly could, when,
about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face,
springing up from the S. S. E. this cheered my
heart a little, and especially, when in about half
an hour more it blew a pretty small gentle gale.
By this time I was got at a frightful distance from
the island, and had the least cloud or hazy wea-
ther intervened, I had been undone another way
too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it: but
the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to
get up my mast again, spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out
of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the
boat began to stretch away, I saw, even by the
clearness of the water, some alteration of the cur-
rent was near; for where the current was so
strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the
water clear, I found the current abate, and pre-
sently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks: these rocks I
found caused the current to part again, and as the
main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving
the rocks to the N. E. so the other returned by
the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy,
which ran back again to the N. W. with a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who
THE LIFE OF
have been in such like extremities, may guess
what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy;
and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread
my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind,
and with a strong tide or eddy under foot. This
eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again directly towards the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current
which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself open to the
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end
of the island opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of this current or eddy, I found
it was spent, and served me no further. However,
I found that being between the two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me
away, and that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other side: I say, between these
two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering di-
rectly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before. About four o'clock in the
evening, being then within about a league of the
island, I found the point of the rocks which occa-
sioned this disaster, stretching out, as is described
before, to the southward, and, casting off the cur-
rent more southwardly, had, of course, made ano-
ther eddy to the north, and this I found very
strong, but not directly setting the way my course
lay, which was due west, but almost full north.
However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across
157
this eddy slanting north-west, and in about an hour
came within about a mile of the shore, where it
being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore I fell on my knees and
gave God thanks .for my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of deliverance by my boat;
and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore in a little cove
that I had spied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour
and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get
home with my boat. I had run so much hazard,
and knew too much the case to think of attempting
it by the way I went out; and what might be at
the other side (I mean, the west side) I knew not,
nor had I any mind to run any more ventures: so,
I only resolved in the morning to make my way
westward along the shore, and to see if there was
no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safe-
ty, so as to have her again, if I wanted her. In
about three miles, or thereabout, coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet, or bay, about
a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very
convenient harbour for my boat, and where she
lay as if she had been in a little dock made on pur-
pose for her. Here I put in, and having stowed
my boat very safe, I went on shore to look about
me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the
place where I had been before, when I travelled on
foot to that shore; so taking nothing out of my
boat, but my gun and my umbrella, for it was ex-
ceeding hot, 1 began my march. The way was
o
THE LIFE OF
comfortable enough, after such a voyage as 1 had
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the
evening, where I found every thing standing as I
left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as
I said before, my country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the
shade to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and
fell asleep: but judge you, if you can, that read
my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was
waked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by
my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusoe! poor Robin Crusoe! where are you, Ro-
bin Crusoe'? Where are you? Where have you
been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did
not wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleep-
ing and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me: but as the voice continued to repeat,
"Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe!" at last I began
to wake more perfectly, and was at first most
dreadfully frighted, and started up in the utmost
consternation: but no sooner were my eyes open,
but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge,
and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to
me; for just in such bemoaning language I had
used to talk to him, and teach him; and he had
learned it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my
finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
"Poor Robin Crusoe! where are you? where have
you been? how came you here?" and such things
as I had taught him. However, even though I
knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could be
nobody else, it was a good while before I could
159
compose myself. First, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and then how he should just
keep about the place, and no where else: but as I
was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest
Poll, I got it over; and holding out my hand, and
calling him by his name, "Poll," the sociable crea-
ture came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he
used to do, and continued talking to me, "Poor
Robin Crusoe," and how did I come here? and
where had I been? just as if he had been overjoy-
ed to see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for
some time, and had enough to do for many days to
sit still, and reflect upon the danger I had been in.
I should have been very glad to have had my boat
again on my side of the island; but I knew not
how it was practicable to get it about. As to the
east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
knew well enough there was no venturing that
way; my very heart would shrink, and my very
blood run chill but to think of it: and as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it
might be there; but supposing the current ran
with the same force against the shore at the east,
as it passed by it on the other, I might run the
same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being
carried away from it. So with these thoughts I
contented myself to be without any boat, though it
had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the
sea.
In this government of my temper I remained
near a year, living a very sedate retired life, as you
THE LIFE OF
may well suppose; and ray thoughts being very
much composed as to my condition, and fully com-
forted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in
all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechan-
ical exercises which my necessities put me upon ap-
plying myself to, and I believe could, upon occa-
sion, have made a very good carpenter, especially
considering how few tools I had. Besides this, I
arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen
ware, and contrived well enough to make them
with a wheel, which T found infinitely easier and
better; because I made things round and shape-
able, which before were filthy things indeed to look
on. But I think I was never more vain of my own
performance, or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-
pipe. And though it was a very ugly clumsy thing,
when it was done, and only burned red like other
earthen ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with
it; for I had been always used to smoke, and there
were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first,
not knowing that there was tobacco in the island;
and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I
could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker ware I also improved much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets, as well as
my invention shewed me; and though not very
handsome, yet they were such as were very handy
and convenient for my laying things up in, or fetch-
ing things home. For example, if 1 killed a goat
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and
dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in
161
a basket; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it
up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the
flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me.
Also large deep baskets were my receivers for my
corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was
dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably: and this was a want which it was impos-
sible for me to supply, and I began seriously to
consider what I must do when I should have no
more powder; that is to say, how I should do to
kill any goats. I had, as I observed in the third
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred
her up tame; and 1 was in hopes of getting a he-
goat, but I could not by any means bring it to
pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I could
never find in my heart to kill her, till she died
at last of mere age. But being now in the eleventh
year of my residence, and, as 1 have said, my am-
munition growing low, I set myself to some art to
trap and snare the goats, to see whether I could
not catch some of them alive, and particularly 1
wanted a she-goat great with young. To this pur-
pose I made snares to hamper them, and I do be-
lieve they were more than once taken in them; but
my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I
always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pit-fall: so I dug se-
veral large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over these
pits I placed hurdles of my own making too, with
a great weight upon them, and several times I put
ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the
trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats
o 3
THE LIFE OF
had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see
the mark of their feet. At length I set three traps
in one night, and going the next morning I found
them all standing, and yet the baits eaten and
gone. This was very discouraging: however, I
altered my traps, and, not to trouble you with
particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I
found in one of them a large old he-goat, and in
one of the other three kids, a male and two fe-
males.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him: he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to
him; that is to say, to go about to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor
would it answer my end. So I e'en let him out,
and he ran away as if he had been frighted out of
his wits: but I had forgot then what 1 learned af-
terwards, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had
let him stay there three or four days without food,
and then have carried him some water to drink, and
then a-little corn, he would have been as tame as
one of the kids, for they are mighty sagacious,
tractable creatures, where they are used well.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids,
and taking them one by one, I tied them with
strings together, and with some difficulty brought
them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed;
but throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted
them, and they began to be tame. And now I
found that if I expected to supply myself with
goat's flesh when I had no powder or shot left,
breeding some up tame was my only way, when
163
perhaps I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. But then it presently occurred to
me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
they would always run wild when they grew up;
and the only way for this was to have some inclos-
ed piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge
or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break
in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of
hands; yet as I saw there was an absolute neces-
sity of doing it, my first piece of work was to find
out a proper piece of ground, viz. where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for
them to drink, and cover to keep them from the
sun. Those who understand such inclosures will
think I had very little contrivance, when I pitched
upon a place very proper for all these, being a
plain open piece of meadow land, or Savanna, (as
our people call it in the western colonies,) which
had two or three little drills of fresh water in it,
and at one end was very woody: I say, they will
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I
began my inclosing this piece of ground in such a
manner, that my hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles about. Nor was the madness of it
so great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles
about, I was like to have time enough to do it in;
but I did not consider, that my goats would be as
wild in so much compass, as if they had had the
whole island, and I should have so much room to
chase them in, that I should never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe,
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to
me; so I presently stopped short, and for the first
THE LIFE OF
beginning I resolved to inclose a piece of about 150
yards in length, and 100 yards in breadth, which,
as it would maintain as many as I should have in
any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased,
I could add more ground to my inclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece, and till I had done it I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible to make
them familiar: and very often I would go and car-
ry them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice,
and feed them out of my hand; so that after my
inclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they
would follow me up and down, bleating after me
for a handful of corn. This answered my end:
and in about a year and a half I had a flock of
about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years
more I had three and forty, besides several that I
took and killed for my food. And after that I in-
closed five several pieces of ground to feed them
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them
as I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another.
But this was not all, for now I not only had
goat s flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk
too; a thing which, indeed, in my beginning, I
did not so much as think of, and which, when it
came into my thoughts, was an agreeable surprise.
For now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature,
who gives supplies of food to every creature, dic-
tates even naturally how to make use of it; so I
that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or
seen butter or cheese made; very readily and han-
165
dily, though after a great many essays and miscar-
riages, made both butter and cheese at last, and
never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his
creatures, even in those conditions in which they
seem to be overwhelmed in destruction I how can
he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us
cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons!
what a table was here spread for me in the wilder-
ness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for
hunger.
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen
me and my little family sit down to dinner. There
was my majesty, the prince and the lord of the
whole island; having the lives of all my subjects
at my absolute command. I could hang, draw,
give life and liberty, and take it away, arid had no
rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too all alone,
attended by my servants: Poll, as if he had been
my favourite, was the only person permitted to talk
to me; my dog, which was now grown very old and
crazy, and had found no species to multiply his
kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and two
cats sat, one on one side the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favour. But these were not
the two cats which I brought on shore at first; for
they were both of them dead, and had been inter-
red near my habitation by my own hands; but one
of them having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame, whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and
became indeed troublesome to me at last; for they
would often come into my house, and plunder me
THE LIFE OF
too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and
did kill a great many: at length they left me with
this attendance, and in this plentiful manner I liv-
ed; neither could I be said to want any thing but
society, and of that, some time after this, 1 was
like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed,
to have the use of my boat; though very loath to
run any more hazards; and therefore, sometimes,
I sat contriving ways to get her about the island,
and at other times I sat myself down contented
enough without her. But I had a strange uneasi-
ness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where, as I have said, in my last ramble,
I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and
how the current set, that I might see what I had
to do. This inclination increased upon me every
day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by
land: so, following the edge of the shore, I did so.
But had any one in England been to meet such a
man as 1 was, it must either have frighted him, or
raised a great deal of laughter; and as 1 frequently
stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile
at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire
with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be
pleased to take a sketch of my figure as follows:—
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goafs
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well
to keep the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off
from running into my neck; nothing being so
hurtful in these climates, as the rain upon the
flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of
goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about the
middle of my thighs; and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same; the breeches were made of
167
the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that like pantaloons
it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and
shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of some-
thing, I scarce knoAV what to call them, like bus-
kins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side
like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape,
as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of a goat's skin dried,
which I drew together with two thongs of the same,
instead of buckles; and in a kind of frog on either
side of this, instead of a sword and a dagger, hung
a little saw and a hatchet, one on one side, and one
on the other. I had another belt not so broad,
and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin
too; in one of which hung my powder, in the other
my shot: at my back I carried my basket, on my
shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy
ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was
the most necessary thing I had about me, next to
my gun; as for my face, the colour of it was really
not so Mulatto like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine-
teen degrees of the Equinox. My beard I had
once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of
a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some Turks, whom I saw at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the
Turks did: of these mustachios or whiskers, I
will not say they were long enough to hang my hat
THE LIFE OF
upon them; but they were of a length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as in England would
have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure,
I had so few to observe me, that it was of no man-
ner of consequence; so I say no more to that
part. In this kind of figure I went my new jour-
ney, and was out five or six days. I travelled first
along the sea-shore, directly to the place where
I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get up
upon the rocks; and having no boat to take care
of, I went over the land a nearer way, to the same
height that I was upon before; when looking for-
ward to the point of rocks which lay out, and
which I was obliged to double with my boat, I was
surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet,
no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there
than in other places. I was at a strange loss to
understand this, and resolved to spend some time
in the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets
of the tide had occasioned it: but I was presently
convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb set-
ting from the west, and joining with the current of
waters from some great rivers on the shore, must
be the occasion of this current; and that accord-
ingly as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or from the north, this current came near, or went
further from the shore; for waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then
the time of ebb being made, I plainly saw the cur-
rent again as before, only that it ran further off,
being near half a league from the shore; whereas
in my case, it set close upon the shore, and hurri-
ed me and my canoe along with it, which at ano-
ther time it would not have done.
169
This observation convinced me, that I had no-
thing to do but to observe the ebbing and the flow-
ing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my
boat about the island again: but when I began to
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror
upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger
I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but on the contrary, I took up
another resolution, which was more safe, though
more laborious; and this was, that I would build,
or rather make, me another periagua or canoe; and
so have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under
the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this
time I had enlarged into several apartments or caves,
one within another. One of these, which was the
driest, and largest, and had a door out beyond my
wall or fortification; that is to say, beyond where
my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with
the large earthen pots, of which I have given an ac-
count, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets,
which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn,
some in the ear cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand. As for my
wall made with piles, they grew all like trees, and
were by this time grown so big, and spread so very
much, that there was not the least appearance to
any one's view of any habitation behind them. .
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn-ground, which I kept duly cultivated
p
THE LIFE OF
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their har-
vest in their season; and whenever I had occasion
for more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as
that. Besides this, I had my country seat, and I
had now a tolerable plantation there also: for first,
I had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept
in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which
circled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height,
the ladder standing always in the inside; I kept the
trees, which at first were no more than my stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall; I kept
them always so cut, that they might spread and
grow thick and wild, and make the more agreea-
ble shade, which they did effectually to my mind.
In the middle of this I had my tent always stand-
ing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set
up for that purpose, and which never wanted any
repair or renewing; and under this I had made me
a*squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures
I had killed, and with other soft things, and a
blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occa-
sion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my
country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cat-
tle, that is to say, my goats: and as I had taken
an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and in-
close this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept
entire, lest the goats should break through, that I
never left off till, with infinite labour, I had stuck
the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a
pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to
put a hand through between them; which after-
171
wards when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, made the inclosure strong
like a wall, indeed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever
appeared necessary for my comfortable support;
for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame
creatures thus at my hand, would be a living
magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese, for me
as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be
forty years, and that keeping them in my reach,
depended entirely upon my perfecting my inclo-
sures to such a degree, that I might be sure of
keeping them together; which by this method in-
deed 1 so effectually secured, that when these
stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very
thick, I was forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store
of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve
very carefully, as the best and most agree-
able dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they
were not agreeable only, but physical, whole-
some, nourishing, and refreshing to the last de-
gree.
As this was also about half way between my
other habitation and the place where I had laid
up my boat, I generally stayed, and lay here in
my way thither; for I used frequently to visit my
boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to
her in very good order; sometimes I went out in
her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voya-
ges would 1 go, nor scarce ever above a stones
cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive
of my being hurried out of my knowledge again *by
THE LIFE OF
the currents or winds, or any other accident: but
now I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the
print of a man's naked foot on the shore, whicli
was very plain to be seen in the sand: I stood
like one thunder-struck, or as if I had seen an ap-
parition; I listened, I looked round me, I could
hear nothing nor see anything; I went up to a
rising ground to look further, I went up the shore
and clown the shore, but it was all one, I could
see no other impression but that one. I went to it
again to see if there were any more, and to ob-
serve if it might not be my fancy; but there was
no room for that, for there was exactly the very
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot;
hpw it came thither, I knew not, nor could in the
least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of
myself, I came home to my fortification, not feel-
ing, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified
to the last degree, looking behind me at every two
or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree,
and fancying every stump at a distance to be a
man: nor is it possible to describe how many va-
rious shapes an affrighted imagination represented
things to me in; how many wild ideas were found
every moment in my fancy, and what strange un-
accountable whimsies came into my thoughts by
the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I
called it ever after this, I fled into it like one
pursued: whether I went over by the ladder as first
contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock,
which I called a door, I cannot remember; no,
173
nor could I remember the next morning, for never
a frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with
more terror of mind, than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night: the further I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my appre-
hensions were; I was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself even
though I was now a great way off it. Yet, when I
could get courage to reason on the subject, I
asked how should any thing in human shape come
into the place? where was the vessel that brought
them? what marks was there of any other foot-
steps? and how was it possible a man should come
there? and abundance of such things as these as-
sisted to argue me out of all apprehensions: and
I presently concluded, that it must be some of the
savages of the main land over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either
driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were
gone away again to sea, being as loath, perhaps, to
have stayed in this desolate island, as I would have
been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my
mind, I was very thankful in my thoughts, that I
was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time,
or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched fur-
ther for me: then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination about their having found my boat, and
that there were people here; and that if so, I
should certainly have them come again in greater
numbers, and kill me; that if it should happen so
p 3
THE LIFE OF
that they should not find me, yet they would find
my inclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at
last for mere want. Thus my fear banished all
my religious hope; all that former confidence in
God, which was founded on such wonderful expe-
riences as 1 had had of his goodness, now vanished;
as if he that had fed me almost by miracle hi-
therto, could not preserve by his power the pro-
vision which he had made for me by his goodness.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is
the life of man! and by what secret different
springs are the affections hurried about, as differ-
ing circumstances present! To-day we love what
to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek what to-mor-
row we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow
we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of
it. This was exemplified in me at this time in the
most lively manner imaginable: for I, whose only
affliction was, that I seemed banished from human
society, that I was alone circumscribed by the
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and con-
demned to what I call silent life; that I was as
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to, be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the
rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my
own species, would have seemed to me a raising
me from death to life, and the greatest blessing that
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of sal-
vation, could bestow; I say, that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man,
and was ready to sink into the ground at but the
shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set
his foot on the island. Such is the uneven state
of human life; and it afforded me a great many
175
curious speculations afterwards. When I had a
little recovered my first surprise, I considered that
this was the station of life the infinitely wise and
good providence of God had determined for me:
that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dis-
pute his sovereignty; who, as I was his creature,
had an undoubted right by creation to govern and
dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit; and
who, as I was a creature who had offended him, had
likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what
punishment he thought fit; and that it was my
part to submit to bear his indignation, because I
had sinned against him.—I then reflected, that
God, who was not only righteous but omnipotent,
as he had thought fit thus to punish and afflict nie;
so he was able to deliver me; that if he did not
think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned duty to
resign myself absolutely and entirely to his will:
and, on the other hand, it was my duty also to hope
in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dic-
tates and directions of his daily providence.
It came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own; and that
this foot might be the print of my own foot, when
I came on shore from my boat: this cheered me
up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it
was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my
own foot; and that if it was, I had played the part
of those fools, who strive to make stories of spec-
tres and apparitions, and then are frighted at them
more than any body else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for
three days and nights; so that I began to starve
THE LIFE OF
for provision; for I had little or nothing within
doors, but some barley cakes and water. Then I
knew that my goats wanted to be milked too,
which was usually my evening diversion; and the
poor creatures were in great pain and inconveni-
ence for the "want of it; and indeed, it almost
spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their
milk. Heartening myself, therefore, with the be-
lief, that this was nothing but the print of one of
my feet, and so I might be truly said to start at
my own shadow; I began to go abroad again, and
went to my country-house, to milk my flock. But
to see with what fear 1 went forward, how often I
looked behind me, how I was ready every now and
then to lay down my basket, and run for my life,
it would have made any one have thought I wras
haunted with an evil conscience.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and saw nothing, 1 began to be a little bolder;
and to think there was really nothing in it but my
own imagination: but I could not persuade myself
fully of this, till I should go down to the shore
again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it
by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that 1 might be assured it was my own foot.
But when I came to the place, first, it appeared
evidently to me, that when 1 laid up my boat, I
could not possibly be on shore any where therea-
bout; and secondly, when I came to measure the
mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so
large by a great deal. Both these things filled my
head with new imaginations, and gave me the va-
pours again to the highest degree; so that I shook
with cold, like one in an ague: and I went home
again, filled with the belief that some man or men
177
had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised
before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security, I knew not.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking
all night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and
having, by the amusement of my mind, been as it
were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and waked much better composed than
I had ever been before. And now I began to think
sedately, that this island, which was so exceeding
pleasant, fruitful, and no further from the main
land than I had seen, was not so entirely abandon-
ed as I might imagine: that althougb there was no
stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who, either with design, or perhaps never
but when they were driven by cross winds, might
come to this place. That I had lived here fifteen
years now, and had not met with the shadow or
figure of any people before, and that if at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could,
seeing they had never thought fit to fix there upon
any occasion, to this time.
Now I began sorely to repent, that I had dug
my cave so large, as to bring a door out beyond
where my fortification joined to the rock: upon
maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to
draw me a second fortification, in the same man-
ner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
just where I had planted a double row of trees,
about twelve years before, of which I made men-
tion. These trees having been planted so thick
before, there wanted but a few piles to be driven
THE LIFE OF
between them, that they should be thicker and
stronger, and my wall would be soon finished. So
that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having in it seven little holes, about as big as I
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I
thickened my wall to above ten feet thick, with
continual bringing earth out of my cave, and lay-
ing it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it;
and through the seven holes, I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice, that I got
seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I plant-
ed like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that
held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time. This wail
I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thought myself safe till it was done. When
this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great distance every way, as full of
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I
found so apt to grow, as they could well stand;
insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have
room to see an enemy, and they might have no
shelter from the young trees, if they attempted
to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove,
and in live or six years' time I had a wood before
my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong,
that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
man, of what kind soever, would ever imagine
that there was any thing beyond it, much less a
habitation. As for the way which 1 proposed to
179
myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue, it was
by setting two ladders; one to a part of the rock
which was low, and then broke in, and left room
to place another ladder upon that: so when the
two ladders were taken down, no man living could
come down to me without mischieving himself;
and if they had come down, they were still on the
outside of ray outer wall.
While this was doing, I was not altogether care-
less of my own affairs: for I had a great concern
upon me for my little herd of goats. They were
not only a present supply to me upon every occa-
sion, and began to be sufficient to me, without the
expence of powder and shot; but also abated the
fatigue of hunting after the wild ones: and I was
loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have
them all to nurse up over again. Accordingly, I
spent some time to find out the most retired parts
of the island to move them to; and I pitched upon
one which was as private indeed as my heart could
wish: for it was a little damp piece of ground, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where,
as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavouring to come back that way from the east-
ern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece
of land near three acres, so surrounded with woods,
that it was almost an inclosure by nature; at least
it did not want near so much labour to make it so,
as the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard
at. Having fenced it round, I removed ten young
she-goats and two he-goats into it.
All this labour I was at the expence of, purely
from my apprehensions on the account of the print
of a man's foot which I had seen; for as yet I never
saw any human creature come near the island: and
THE LIFE OF
I had now lived near two years under these uneasi-
nesses, which, indeed, made my life much less
comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagined, by any who know what it is to live in
the constant snare of "the fear of man." And
this I must observe with grief too, that the dis-
composure of my mind had too great impressions
also upon the religious part of my thoughts, for
the dread and terror of falling into the hands of
savages, lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom
found myself in a due temper for application to
my Maker, at least, not with the sedate calmness
and resignation of soul, which I was wont to do;
I rather prayed to God as under great affliction
and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger,
and in expectation every night of being murdered
before morning: and 1 must testify from my ex-
perience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness,
love, and affection, is much the more proper
frame for prayer, than that of terror and discom-
posure; and that under the dread of mischief im-
pending, a man is no more fit for a comforting
performance of the duty of praying to God, than
he is for repentance on a sick bed; for these
discomposures affect the mind as the others do
the body; and the discomposure of the mind must
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the
body, and much greater, praying to God being
properly an act of the mind, not of the body.
But to go on: after I had thus secured one part
of my little living stock, I went about the whole
island, searching for another private place, to make
such another deposit; when wandering more to the
west point of the island than I had ever done yet,
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
181
upon the sea, at a great distance. I had found a
perspective glass or two in one of the seameivs
chests, which 1 saved out of the ship; but I had it
not about me, and this was so remote, that I could
not tell what to make of it: though I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to look any longer.
Whether it was a boat or not, I do not know; but
as 1 descended from the hill, I could see no more
of it: so 1 gave it over; only I resolved to go no
more out without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been before, I was
presently convinced, that the seeing the print of a
man's foot, was not such a strange thing in the
island as 1 imagined; and but that it was a special
providence that I was cast upon the side of the
island where the savages never came, I should ea-
sily have known that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the main, when they hap-
pened to be a little too far out to sea, to shoot over
to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as
they often met, and fought in their canoes, the vic-
tors having taken any prisoners, would bring them
over to this shore, where, according to their dread-
ful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill
and eat them; of which hereafter. When 1 was
come down the hill to the shore, as 1 said before,
being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me
to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human bodies.
1 w^as so astonished with the sight of these
things, that I entertained no notions of any danger
to myself from it for a long while; all my appre-
Q
THE LIFE OF
hensions were buried in the thoughts of such a
pitch of inhuman hellish brutality, and the horror
of the degeneracy of human nature; which though
I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a
view of before: in short, I turned away my face
from the horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick,
and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach; and
having vomited with an uncommon violence, I was
a little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the
place a moment; so I got me up the hill again
with all the speed 1 could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.
When 1 came a little out of that part of the
island, I stood still awhile as amazed; and then
recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost af-
fection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my
eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot
in a part of the world, where I was distinguished
from such dreadful creatures as these; and that
though I had esteemed my present condition very
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in
it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to
complain of: and this above all, that I had even
in this miserable condition been comforted with
the knowledge of himself, and the hope of his
blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered,
or could suffer.
I entertained such an abhorrence of these savage
wretches, and of their inhuman customs, that I con-
tinued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle for almost two years after this: when I
say my own circle, I mean by it my three planta-
tions, viz. my castle, my country-seat, which I
188
called my bower, and my inclosure in the woods;
nor did I look after this for any other use than as
an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion which
nature gave me to these wretches was such, that I
was as fearful of seeing them, as of seeing the devil
himself: nor did I so much as go to look after my
boat in all this time, but began rather to think of
making me another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the other boat
round the island to me, lest I should meet with
some of these creatures at sea, in which case, if I
had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that
I was in no danger of being discovered by these
people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them; and I began to live just in the same com-
posed manner as before; only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more
about me than I did before; lest I should happen
to be seen by any of them. I was also more cau-
tious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on
the island, should happen to hear it: and it was
therefore a very good providence to me, that I had
furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that
I needed not hunt any more about the woods, or
shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them
after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done
before; so that for two years after this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off, though I never went
out without it. And which was more, as I had
saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking
them in my goat-skin belt; also I furbished up one
of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship,
THE LIFE OF
and made me a belt to put it in also: so that I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at when I
went abroad; if you add to the former description
of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a
great broad sword hanging at my side in a belt,
but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus for some time, I seemed,
excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm, sedate way of living: all these things
tended to shew me more and more how far my
condition was from being miserable, compared to
some others; nay, to many other particulars of
life, which it might have pleased God to have
made my lot.
I began to think that the frights I had been in
about these savage wretches, and the concern I
had been in for my own preservation, had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveni-
ences; and I had dropped a good design, which I
had once bent my thoughts much upon: and that
was to try if I could not make some of my barley
into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reprov-
ed myself often for the simplicity of it; for I pre-
sently saw there would be the want of several
things necessary to the making my beer, that it
would be impossible for me to supply: as first,
casks to preserve it in, which was a thing, that, as
I have observed already, I could never compass;
no, though I spent months in attempting it, but
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops
to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no cop-
per or kettle to make it boil: and yet, had not
these things intervened, I mean the frights and
terrors I was in about the savages, I had under-
185
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for
I seldom gave any thing over without accomplish-
ing it, when I once had it in my head enough to
begin it.
After a great deal of debate with myself what
conduct to pursue towards those savages, when they
should land again, I resolved that neither in prin-
ciples, nor in policy, ought I one way or other to
concern myself with them. That my business was
by all possible means to conceal myself from them,
and not to leave the least signal to them, to guess
by, that there was any human creature upon the
island.—Religion joined in with this prudential,
and I was convinced now many ways, that I was per-
fectly out of my duty, when I was laying all my
bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent
creatures, I mean innocent as to me: as to the
crimes they were guilty of one to another, I had
nothing to do with them; they were national, and
I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who
is the governor of nations, and knows how by na-
tional punishments to make a just retribution for
national offences; and to bring public judgments
upon those who offend in a public manner, by such
ways as best pleases him.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me, than that I had
not been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so
much reason to believe would have been no less a
sin, than that of wilful murder, if I had committed
it: and I gave most humble thanks on my knees to
God, that had thus delivered me from blood-guilti-
ness, beseeching him to grant me the protection of
his providence, that I might not fall into the hands
of the Barbarians; or that I might not lay my hands
Q 3
THE LIFE OF
upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
I went and removed my boat which I had on the
other side the island, and carried it down to the
east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a
little cove which I found under some high rocks,
and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not, come with
their boats, upon any account whatsoever. With
my boat I carried away every thing that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the
bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail which I had
made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed
which could not be called either anchor or grap-
pling; however, it was the best I could make of its
kind. All these I removed, that there might not be
the least shadow of any discovery, or any appear-
ance of any boat, or of any human creature upon
the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my
cell, other than upon my constant employment, viz.
to milk my she-goats, and manage my little flock
in the wood; which, as it was quite on the other
part of the whole island, was quite out of clanger.
I had the care of my safety more now upon my
hands, than that of my food. I cared not to drive
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the
noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I fire a gun for the same reason: and above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire,
lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance
in the day, should betray me; and for this reason
I removed that part of my business which required
fire, such as burning pots and pipes, &c. into my
new apartments in the wood; where, after I had
187
been some time, I found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which
went in a vast way, and where I dare say, no sa-
vage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so
hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed, would any
man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing
so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of
a great rock, where by mere accident (I would
say, if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all
such things now to Providence) I was cutting down
some thick branches of trees to make charcoal;
and before I go on, I must observe the reason of
my making this charcoal, which was this:—I was
afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as
I said before; and yet I could not live there with-
out baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. so I
contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen
done in England, under turf, till it became chark, ,
or dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I pre-
served the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services which fire was wanting for at home,
without danger of smoke, But this by the bye.
While I was cutting down some wood here, I per-
ceived that behind a very thick branch of low
brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of
low hollow place, I was curious to look into it;
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I
found it was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient
for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another
with me: but I must confess to you I made more
haste out than I did in, when looking further into
the place, and which was perfectly dark, I saw
two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's
THE LIFE OF
mouth shining directly m, and making the-reflec-
tion. However, after some pause, I recovered my-
self, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and
tell myself that I durst to believe there was nothing
in this cave that was more frightful than myself:
upon which, plucking up my courage, I took up a
great firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the
stick flaming in my hand. I had not gone three
steps in, but I was almost,as much frightened as I
was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that
of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a
broken noise, as if of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again: I stepped back, and was,
indeed, struck with such a surprise, that it put me
into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my
head, I will not answer for it, that my hair might
not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my
spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself
a little, with considering that the presence of God
was every where, and his power able to protect
me, I stepped forward again, and by the light
of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous
frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we
say, and gasping for life, and dying indeed of mere
old age. I stirred him a little, to see if I could get
him out, and he essayed to get up, but was not
able to raise himself; and I thought with myself,
he might even lie there: for if he had frightened
me so, he would certainly fright any of the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in
there, while he had any life in him. I was now re-
covered from my surprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that
is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in
189
no manner of shape, either round or square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it, but
those of mere nature. I observed also, that there
was a place at the further side of it, that went in
further, but was so low, that it required me to creep
upon my hands and knees to get into it, and whi-
ther it went I knew not: so having no candle, I
gave it over for some time; but resolved to come
again the next day provided with candies and a
tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one
of the muskets, with some wild-tire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with
six large candles of my own making; for I made
very good candles now of goats' tallow; and going
into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon
all-fours almost ten yards: which, by the way, I
thought was a venture bold enough, considering
that 1 knew not how far it might go, nor what was
beyond it When I wras got through the strait, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet: but never was such a glorious sight seen in
the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave; the walls re-
flected a hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles; what it was iu the rock, whether
diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold^
which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and levels and
had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that
there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be
seen, neither was there any damp or wet upon the
sides or roof. The only difficulty in it was the en-
trance) which, however, as it was a place of seen-
THE LIFE OF
rity, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that
was a convenience: so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay,
to bring some of those things, which I was most
anxious about, to this place; particularly, I re-
solved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and
all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, (for I
had three in all,) and three muskets, (for of them
I had eight in all;) so I kept at my castle only
five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of
cannon, on my outmost fence; and were ready
also to take out upon any expedition. Upon this
occasion of removing my ammunition, I took occa-
sion to open the barrel of powder which I took up
out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
found that the water had penetrated about three
or four inches into the powder on every side, which
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like kernel in the shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to me
at that time: so I carried all away thither, never
keeping above two or three pounds of powder with
me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind;
I also carried thither ail the lead I had left for
bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient
giants, which were said to live in caves and holes
in the rocks, where none could come at them: for
I persuaded mysdf, while I was here, if five hun-\
dred savages were to hunt me, they could never
find me out; or if they did, they would not venture
to attack me here. The old goat, whom I found
expiring, died in the mouth of the cave, the next
day after I made this discovery: and I found it
191
much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw
him in, and cover him with earth, than to drag
him out; so I interred him there to prevent offence
to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence
in this island, and was so naturalized to the place,
and the manner of living, that could 1 but have
enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could almost have
been content to have capitulated for spending the
rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till
I had laid me down and died, like the old goat in
the cave. I had also arrived to some little diver-
sions and amusements, which made the time pass
more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did
before: as first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted
before, to speak, and he did it so familiarly, and
talked so articulately and plain, that it was very
pleasant to me; aud he lived with me no less than
six and twenty years. How long he might live
afterwards, I know not; though I know they have
a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years: perhaps poor Poll may be alive there still,
calling after poor Robin Crusoe to this day. I
wish no Englishman the ill-luck to come there and
hear him. My clog was a very pleasant and loving
companion to me for no less than sixteen years
of my time, and then died of mere age. As for
my cats, I had two or three favourites, which I
kept tame; and whose young, when they had any,
I always drowned: and these were part of my
family. Besides these, I always kept two or three
household kids about me, which I taught to feed
out of my hand: and I had two more parrots
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin
THE LIFE OF
Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed, did
I take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls,
whose names I knew not, that I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle Wall being
now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls
all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me.
How frequently, in the course of our lives, the
evil, which in itself we seek most to shun, and
which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of
our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could
give many examples of this in the course of my un-
accountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of
my last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, and this being
the southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it,
was the particular time of my harvest, and requir-
ed my being pretty much abroad in the fields;
when going out pretty early in the mornings even
before it was thorough day-light, I was surprised
with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, at
a distance from me, of about two miles towards
the end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been, as before, and not on the other
side; but, to my great affliction, it was on my side
of the island. I was indeed terribly surprised at
the sight, and stopped short within my grove, not
daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; and
yet I had no more peace within, from the appre-
hensions- 1 had, that if these savages, in rambling
/
193
over the island, should find my corn standing, or
cut, or any of my works and improvements, they
would immediately conclude, that there were peo-
ple iu the place, and would then never give over
till they had found me out. In this extremity, I
went back directly to my castle, pulled up the lad-
der after me, and made all things without look as
wild and natural as 1 could. Then I prepared my-
self within, putting myself in a posture of defence:
I loaded all my cannon, as I called them; that is
to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my
new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp, not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the divine protec-
tion, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me
out of the hands of the Barbarians; and in this
posture I continued about two hours, but began
to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad,
for 1 had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder
to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder -
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, 1 laid me down flat
on my belly on the ground, and began to look for.
the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made.—They had two canoes with them,
which they had hauled up upon the shore; and as
it was then the tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood to go away again.
It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight
li
THE LIFE OF
put me into, especially seeing them come on my
side the island, and so near me too: but when I
observed their coming must be always with the
current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood,
if they were not on shore before; and having made
this observation, I went abroad about my harvest-
work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle as we call it) all away.
I should have observed, that for an hour or more
before they went off they went to dancing, and I
could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glasses. I could not perceive by my nicest ob-
servation but that they were stark naked, and had
not the least covering upon them; but whether they
were men or women, that I could not distinguish,
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at
my girdle, and my great sword by my side without
a scabbard, and with all the speed I wras able to
make, I went away to the hill where I had disco-
vered the first appearance of all: and as soon as I
got thither, which was not in less than two hours,
(for I could not go apace being so laden with arms
as I was,) I perceived there had been three canoes
more of savages on that place; and looking out
further, I saw they were all at sea together, making
over for the main.
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which
they thus make to this island are not very frequent;
for it was above fifteen months before any more of
them came on shore there again: that is to say, I
neither saw them, nor any footsteps or signals of
them, in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons,
then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not
so far. Yet all this while I lived uncomfortably,
by reason of the apprehensions I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise; from whence I ob-
serve, that the expectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering, especially if there is no room
to shake off that expectation, or those apprehen-
sions.
I spent whole days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day
or other fall into the hands of these merciless crea-
tures; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it
was not without looking round me with the great-
est care and caution imaginable. And now I found,
to my great comfort, how happy it was that I had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst
not upon any account fire my gun, especially near
that side of the island wherfe they usually came,
lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had
fled from me now, I was sure to have them come
back again with, perhaps, two or three hundred
canoes with them in a few days, and then I knew
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and
three months more, before I ever saw any more of
the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall
soon observe. It is true, they might have been
there once or twice, but either they made no stay,
or at least 1 did not hear them. The perturbation
of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months,
was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always
frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep
in the night: in the day great troubles overwhelm-
ed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
THE LIFE OF
killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might
justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of
May, on the sixteenth day I think, as well as my
poor wooden calendar would reckon; for I marked
all upon the post still; that it blew a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of light-
ning and thunder, and a.very foul night it was after
it. I know not what was the particular occasion
of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken
up with very serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun,
as I thought, fired at sea. This was to be sure a
surprise of a quite different nature from any I had
met with before; for the notions this put into my
thoughts were quite of another kind. I started
up in the greatest haste imaginable, and in a trice
clapt my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second
time, got to the top of the hill: that very moment
a flash of fire bade me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, and
by the sound, knew that it was from that part of
the sea where I was driven down the current hi
my boat. I immediately considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that they had some
comrade or some other ship in company, and fired
these guns as signals of distress, and to obtain help.
I had the presence of mind at that minute, to
think that though I could not help them, it might
be they might help me: so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a
good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill.
The wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though
the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out;
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
197
as a ship, they raust needs see it, and no doubt
they did: for as soon as ever ray fire blazed up I
heard another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night
long, till day broke; and when it was broad day,
and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great
distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a
sail or a hull, I could not distinguish, no not with
my glasses, the distance was so great, and the wea-
ther something hazy also; at least it was so out at
sea. I looked frequently at it all that day, and
soon perceived that it did not move, so I presently
concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and ran towards the south side of
the island, to the rocks where I had been formerly
carried away by the current; and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, 1
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck
of a ship cast away in the night, upon those con-
cealed rocks which 1 found when 1 was out in my
boat; and which rocks, as they checked the vio-
lence of the stream, and made a kind of counter
stream or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering
from the most desperate hopeless condition that
ever I had been in in all my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety, is another man's
destruction: for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and
E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I suppose
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endea-
voured to have saved themselves on shore by the
help of their boat; but their firing of guns for help,
R 3
THE LIFE 0FV
especially when they saw, as I imagined, iny fire,
filled me with many thoughts. First, I imagined,
that upon seeing my light, they might have put
themselves into their boat, and have endeavoured
to make the shore; but that the sea going very
high, they might have been cast away. As these
were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition
I was in, I could do no more than look on upon the
misery of the poor men and pity them, which had
still this good effect upon my side, that it gave me
more and more cause to give thanks to God, who
had so happily and comfortably provided for me in
my desolate condition; and that, of two ships' com-
panies who were now cast away upon this part of
the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare
that the providence of God casts us into any con-
dition of life so low, or any misery so great, but
we may see something or other to be thankful for,
and may see others in worse circumstances than
our own.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of
words, what a strange longing or hankering of
desire I felt in my soul upon this sight; breaking
out sometimes thus: O that there had been but one
or two; nay, or but one soul saved out of this ship,
to have escaped to me, that I might but have had
one companion, one fellow creature to have spoken
to me, and to have conversed with! In all the
time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire after the society of my fellow-crea-
tures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.
Such were these earnest wishings, that but one
man had been saved! O that it had been but one!
I believe I repeated the words, "O that it had
been but one," a thousand times; and my desires
were so moved by it, that when I spoke the words,
my hands would clinch together, and my fingers
press the palms of my hands, so that if I had had
any soft thing" in my hand, it would have crushed
it involuntarily.
I never knew, till the last year of my being on
this island, whether any were saved out of that ship
or no; and had only the affliction some days after
to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore,
at the end of the island which was next to the ship-
wreck: he had no clothes but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as
to guess what nation he was of. He had nothing
in his pocket but two pieces of eight and a tobac-
co-pipe: the last was to me of ten times more va-
lue than the first. It was now calm, and I had a
great mind to venture out in my boat to this wreck,
not doubting but I might find something on board
that might be useful to me: but that did not alto-
gether press me so much, as tbe possibility that
there might be yet some living creature on board,
whose life I might not only save, but might, by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.
And this thought clung so to my heart, that I
could not be quiet night nor day, but I must ven-
ture out in my boat on board this wrreck: and
committing the rest to God's providence, I hasten-
ed back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of
fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of
rum, for I had still a great quantity of that left,
and a basket full of raisins. And thus loading my-
self with every thing necessary* 1 went down to my
THE LIFE OF
boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag
full of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for
shade, another large pot full of fresh water, about
two dozen of my small loaves, or barley cakes,
more than before, with a bottle of goafs milk and
a cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I
brought to my boat; and praying to God to direct
my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the
canoe along the shore, I came at last to the ut-
most point of the island on that side, viz. N. E.—
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and
either to venture or not to venture. I looked on
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both
sides of the island at a distance, and which were
very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the
hazard I had been in before, and my heart began
to fail me. Presently it occurred to me, that I
should go up to the highest piece of ground I
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of
the tide or current lay, when the flood came in;
that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way
out, I might not expect to be driven another way
home, with the same rapidness of the currents.
This thought was no sooner in my head, but I cast
my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the sea both ways, and from whence I had
a clear view of the currents or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return.
Here I found that as the current of the ebb set out
close by the south point of the island, so the cur-
rent of the flood set in close by the shore of the
north side, and that I had nothing to do but to
keep to the north of the island in my return, and I
201
should do well enough. Encouraged with this
observation, I resolved the next morning to set out
with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for
that night in the canoe, under the great watch-
coat I mentioned, I launched out: I made first a
little out to sea full north, till I began to feel the
benefit of the current which set eastward, and hav-
ing a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at a
great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than
two hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of
her was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great violence, her main-mast and fore-mast
were brought by the board; that is to say, broken
short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the
head and bow appeared firm. When I came close
to her, a dog appeared upon her, which seeing me
corning, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me, and I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead for
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread,
and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the
poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I
would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board: but the first sight that
I met with, was two men drowned in the cock-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed
probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a
storm, the sea broke so high and so continually
over her, that the men were not able to bear it, and
were strangled with the constant rushing iu of the
water, as much as if they had been under water.
Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship
that had life, nor any goods that I could see, but
what was spoiled by the water. There were some
casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold; and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see, but they were too
big to meddle with. I saw several chests which I
believe belonged to some of the seamen, and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what
was in them. Had the stern of the ship been fix-
ed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I
might have made a good voyage: for by what I
found in ,these two chests I had room to suppose
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and
if I may guess by the course she steered, she must
have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the
Rio de la Plata in the south part of America be-
yond the Brasils, to the Havannah, in the Gulph
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no
doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use at
that time to any body; and what became of the
rest of her people, I then knew not. I found, be-
sides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat
with much difficulty; there were several muskets
in a cabin, and a great powder-horn with about four
pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets I had
no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass
kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a
gridiron: and with this cargo, and the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and
203
the same evening, about an hour within night, I
reached the island again, weary and fatigued to
the last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the
morning I resolved to harbour what I had gotten
in my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle.
After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars. The
cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not
such as we had at the Brasils, and not at all good:
but when I came to open the chest, I found in one
a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind,
and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good;
the bottles held about three pints each, and were
tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good
succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened on the top,
that the salt water had not hurt them; and two
more of the same, which the water had spoiled, I
found some very good shirts, which were very wel-
come to me, and about a dozen and a half of
white linen handkerchiefs, and coloured neck-
cloths: the former were also very welcome, being
exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day.
Besides these, when I came to the till in the chests,
1 found there three great bags of pieces of eight,
which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and
in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold;
I suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I found had some clothes in it,
but of little value; but, by the circumstances, it
must have belonged to the gunners mate, though
there was no powder in it, but about two pounds
of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks,
kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling-pie-
THE LIFE OF
ces on, occasion. Upon the whole, I got very lit-
tle by this voyage, that was of any use to me: for
as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I
would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I
greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now
many years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two
drowned men, whom I saw in the wreck; and I
found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me: but they were not like
our English shoes, either for ease or service, being
rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found
in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight
in royals, but no gold: I suppose this belonged to
a poorer man than the other, which seemed to
belong to some officer. Well, however, I lugged
this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I
had done that before which I brought from our
own ship; but it was a great pity, as I said, that
the other part of this ship had not come to my
share, for I am satisfied I might have laden my
canoe several times over with money, which, if
I had ever escaped to England, would have lain
here safe enough till I might have come again and
fetched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way
to my old habitation, where I found every thing
safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family
affairs. I lived in this condition near two years
205
more; but my unlucky head, that was always to
let me know it was born to make my body miser-
able, was all the two years filled with projects and
designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island: for sometimes I was for making
another voyage to the wreck, though my reason
told me that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one
way, sometimes another; and I verily believe, if I
had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in
March, the four-and-twentieth year of my first set-
ting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying
in my bed or hammock awake, very well in health,
had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close
my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long, otherwise than as follows:—It is
as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory,
in this night's time: I ran over the whole history
of my life in miniature, to my coming to this
island; and also of that part of my life since I came
to this island. In my reflections upon the state of
my case, since I came on shore on this island, I
was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in
the first years of my habitation here, with the life
of anxiety, fear, and care, which I had lived in
ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the
sand. Not that I did not believe the savages had
frequented the island all the while, and might have
been several hundreds of them at times on shore
THE LIFE OF
there: but as I had never known it, and was inca-
pable of any apprehensions about it, my satisfac-
tion was perfect, though my danger was the same;
and I was as happy in not knowing my danger, as
if I had never really been exposed to it. This fur-
nished my thoughts with many very profitable re-
flections, and particularly this one: how infinitely
good that Providence is, which has provided in its
government of mankind such narrow bounds to his
sight and knowledge of things, and though he
walks in the midst of so many, thousand dangers,
the sight of which, if discovered to him, would
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept
serene and calm by having the events of things
hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the
dangers which surround him. After these thoughts
had for some time entertained me, I came to
reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years in this very island; and how
I had walked about in the greatest security, and
with all possible tranquillity; even when perhaps
nothing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the
casual approach of night, had been between me
and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of fall-
ing into the hands of savages. I now felt I was
most sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to
whose singular protection I acknowledged, with
great humility, that all these unknown deliverances
were due; and without which I must inevitably
have fallen into their merciless hands. It now
occurred to me to enquire, what part of the world
these wretches lived in; how far off the coast was
from whence they came; what they ventured over
so far from home for; what kind of boats they
had; and why I might not order myself and my
207
business so, that I might be as able to go over
thither, as they were to come to me. I never so
much as troubled myself to consider what I should
do with myself when I came thither; what would
become of me, if I fell into the hands of the sava-
ges; or how I should escape from them, if they
attempted me; no, nor so much as how it was
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be
attempted by some or other of them, without
any possibility of delivering myself; and if I
should not fall into their hands, what I should do
for provision, or whither I should bend my course:
none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in
my way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the
notion of my passing over in my boat to the main
land.
When this .had agitated my thoughts for two
hours or more, with such violence, that it set my
very blood into a ferment* and my pulse beat as
high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it; nature,
as if I had been fatigued and exhausted witb the
very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep,
One would have thought I should have dreamed of
it; but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it;
but 1 dreamed, that as I was going out in the morn-
ing as usual from my castle, 1 saw upon the shore
two canoes, and eleven savages coming to land;
that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill; when on a sudden the sa-
vage they were going to kill jumped away and ran
for his life; and I thought in my sleep, that he
came running into my thick grove before my forti-
fication to hide himself; and that seeing him alone,
and not perceiving that the others sought him that
THE LIFE OF
way, I shewed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him; that he kneeled down to me,
seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which I
shewed him my ladder, made him go up it, and
carried him into my cave, and he became my ser-
vant; and that as soon as I had gotten this man,
I said to.rayself, "Now I may certainly venture to
the main land; for this fellow will serve me as
a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions; what places to venture into,
and what to escape.1' I waked with this thought,
and was under such inexpressible impressions of
joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream,
that the disappointments which I felt upon coming
to myself, and finding it was no more than a dream,
were equally extravagant the other way, and threw
me into a very great dejection of spirit. Upon
this, however, I made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage into my posses-
sion; and, if possible, it should be one of their
prisoners, whom they had condemned, and should
bring hither to kill: but these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible
to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan
of them, and killing them all; and this was not
only a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry;
but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the
lawfulness of it to me, and my heart trembled at
the thoughts of shedding so much blood, though
it was for my deliverance.
About a year and a half after this, I was surprised
one morning early, at seeing no less than five ca-
noes all on shore together on my side the island;
and t\w people who belonged to them all landed.
209
Seeing so many, and knowing that they always
came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take
my measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-
handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and
discomforted: however, I put myself into all the
same postures for an attack, that I had formerly
provided^ and was just ready for action if any thing
had presented. Having waited a good while, lis-
tening to hear if they made any noise: at length,
being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of
my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill, by my two stages as usual; standing so,
however, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means: here I observed, by the help of my per-
spective glass, that they were no less than thirty in^
number, that they had a lire kindled, and they
were all dancing in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures their own way round it.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where it seems they were laid by,
and were now brought out for the slaughter. I
perceived that one of them immediately fell, being
knocked down, I suppose with a club or wooden
sword, for that was their way, and two or three
others were at work immediately, cutting him open,
while the other victim was left standing by him-
self, till they should be ready for him. In that
very moment this poor wretch seeing himself a
little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of
life, and he started away from them, and ran with
in credible swiftness along the sands directly to-
wards me, I mean, towards that part of the coast
S 3
THE LIFE OF
where my habitation was. I was dreadfully fright-
ed, (that I must acknowledge,) when I perceived
him to run my way; and especially, when as I
thought I saw him pursued by the whole body:
and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take
shelter in my grove. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found
there was not above three men that followed him;
and still more was I encouraged, when 1 found
that he outstript them exceedingly in running, and
gained ground of them, so that if he could but
hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all. There was between
them and my castle the creek, which I mentioned
often at the first part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship; and this, I plainly
saw, he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there: but when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it,
though the tide was then up, but plunging in, swam
through in thirty strokes, or thereabout, landed,
and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could
not, and that he standing on the other side, looked
at them, but went no further; and soon after went
softly back again: the two who swam, were yet
more than twice as long swimming over the creek
as the fellow was that fled from thern. It came
now very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
irresistibly, that now was my time to get me a
servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant;
and that I was called plainly by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. 1 immediately ran
211
down the ladders with all possible expedition,
fetched my two guns, and getting up again with
the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed to-
wards the sea, and having a very short cut, and all
down hill, clapped myself in the way between the
pursuers and the pursued; hallooing aloud to him
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps
as much frighted at me as at them; but I beckon-
ed with my hand to him to come back, and in the
mean time. I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost,
I knocked him down with the stock of my piece.
I was loath to fire, because I would not have the
rest hear; though at that distance it would not
have been easily heard; and being out of sight
of the smoke too, they would not have easily
known what to make of it. Having knocked this
fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped,
as if he had been frightened; and 1 advanced
apace towards him: but, as I came nearer, I per-
ceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was
fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitat-
ed to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed
him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled,
but had stopped, though he saw both of his ene-
mies fallen, and killed, as he thought; yet was so
frighted with the fire and noise of my piece, that
he stood stock still, and neither came forward nor
went backward, though he seemed rather inclined
to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to
him, and made signs to come forward, which he
easily understood, and came a little way, and stop-
ped again; and then a little further, and stopped
again; and I could then perceive that he stood
trembling as if he had been taken prisoner, and had
THE LIFE OF
just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.
I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him
all the signs of encouragement that I could think
of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down
every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowledg-
ment for my saving his life. I smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer. At length he came close to me, and
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground,
and laid his head upon the ground, and taking me
by the foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it
seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave
for ever. I took hirn up, and made much of him,
and encouraged him all I could. But there was
more work to do yet, for I perceived that the sa-
vage whom I had knocked down was not killed,
but stunned with the blow, and began to come to
himself: so I pointed to him, and shewed him the
savage, that he was not dead., Upon this, he
spoke some words to me, and though I could not
understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant
to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above
twenty-five years. But there was no time for
such reflections now: the savage, who was knock-
ed down, recovered himself so far as to sit up
upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I pre-
sented my other piece at the man as if I would
shoot him. Upon this my savage, for so I call
him now, made a motion to me to lend him my
sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side: so
I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his en-
emy, and at one blow cut off his head so cleverly,
no executioner in Germany could have done it
 
Robifison Crusoe rescuing Friday from
his Enemies,
213
sooner or better; which I thought very strange for
one, who 1 had reason to believe, never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy,
and the wood is so hard, that they will cut. off
heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at
one blow too. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me
the sword again, and with abundance of gestures,
which I did not understand, laid it down with the
head of the savage that he had killed, just before
me. But that which astonished him most, was to
know how I had killed the other Indian so far off:
so, pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him
go to him; so I bid him go as well as I could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed,
looking at him, turning him first on one side, then
on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it seems, was just in the breast,
where it had made a hole, and no gTeat quantity
of blood had followed, but he had bled inwardly,
for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and
arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away,
and beckoned to him to follow me, making signs
to him that more might come after them. Upon
this he signified to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest
if they followed; and so I made signs to him to do
so. He fell to work, and in an instant he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it and covered him, and did so also by the
other; I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
THE LIFE OF
I carried him, not to nry castle, but quite away
to my cave, on the further part of the island.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to lie
down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had
laid a great parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself
sometimes: so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly
well made, with straight, long limbs, not too large,
tall and well shaped, and, as I reckon, about twen-
ty-six years of age. He had a very good counte-
nance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed
to have something very manly in his face, and yet
he had all the sweetness and softness of an Eu-
ropean in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead very high, and large, and
a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellow nau-
seous tawny, as the Brasilians, and Virginians, and
other natives of America are, but of a bright kind
of a dun olive colour, that had in it something very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His
face was round and plump, his nose small, not flat
like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and
fine teeth, well set, and white as ivory. After he
had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an
hour, he waked again, and comes out of the cave
to me; for I had been milking my goats in the in-
closure just by. When he espied me, he came
215
running to me, laying himself down again upon the
ground, with all the possible signs of a humble,
thankful disposition, making many antic gestures
to shew it: at last he lays his head flat upon the
ground close to my foot, and sets my other foot
upon his head, as he had done before; and after
this, made all signs to me of subjection, servitude,
and submission, imaginable, to let me know how
much he would serve me as long as he lived. I
understood him in many things, and let him know
that I was very well pleased with him. In a little
time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me: and first, I made him know his name
should be Friday, which was the day I had saved
his life; I called him so for the memory of the
time; I likewise taught him to say Master, and
then let him know that was to be my name; I like-
wise taught him to say Yes and No, and to know
the meaning of them; I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him
a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made signs that it was very
good for him. I kept there with him all that
night, but as soon as it was day, I beckoned to
him to come with me, and let him know I would
give him some clothes, at which he seemed very
glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed
exactly to the place. I then led him up to the top
of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone: and
pulling out my glass, I looked and saw plainly the
place where they had been, but no appearance of
them, or of their canoes; so that it was plain that
they were gone, and had left their two comrades
THE LIFE OF
behind them, without any search after them. But
I was not content with this discovery, but having
now more courage, and consequently more curio-
sity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making* him carry one gun for me, and I two for
myself, and away we marched to the place where
these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to
get some fuller intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in
my veins, and my heart sunk within me at the
horror of the spectacle: I saw jlhree skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four legs and
teet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies;
and Friday, by his signs, made me understand,
that they brought over four prisoners, and that he,
pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had
been a great battle between them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one
of; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all which were carried to several places
by those that had taken them in the fight, to kill
them, as these wretches had done here.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them toge-
ther on a heap, and make a great fire upon it, and
burn them all to ashes. When we had done this,
we came back to our castle, and there I fell to
work for my man Friday: and first of all, I gave
him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in
the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well; then I made him a jerkin of goats
skin, as well as my skill would allow; and I was
217
now grown a tolerable good tailor; and I gave him
a cap, which I had made of a hare-skin very con-
venient, and fashionable enough; and thus he was
dressed for the present, tolerably well, and was
mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awk-
wardly in these things at first: wearing the drawers
was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the
waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his
arms; but a little easing them where he complain-
ed they hurt him, and using himself to them, at
length he took to them very well. The next day,
after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where 1 should lodge him: and that
1 might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy
myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside
of the last, and on the outside of the first; and as
there was a door or entrance there to my cave, I
made a formal framed door-case, and a door to it
of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to
open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no
way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall,
without making so much noise in getting over, that
it must needs waken me; for my first wall had now
a complete roof over it of long poles covering all
my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill, which
was again laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with
the rice straw, which was strung like reeds; and at
the hole or place which was left to go in or out by
the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which
if it had been attempted on the outside, would not
T
THE LIFE OF
have opened at all, but would have fallen down,
and made a great noise; and as to weapons, 1 took
them all into my side every night. But I needed
none of all this precaution; for never man "had a
more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday-
was to me; without passions, sullenness, or de-
signs, perfectly obliging and engaging: his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to
a father; and I dare say, he would have sacrificed
his life for the saving mine, upon any occasion
whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me of
this, put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me,
that I needed to use no precautions as to my safe-
ty on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe,
and that with wonder, that however it had pleased
God in his providence, and in the government of
the works of his hands, to take from so great a
part of the world of his creatures the best uses to
which their faculties and the powers of their souls
are adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them
the same powers, the same reason, the same af-
fections, the same sentiments of kindness and ob-
ligation, the same passions and resentments of
wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity,
fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
receiving good, that he has given to us; and that
when he pleases to offer to them occasions of
exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready
to apply them to the right uses for which they
were bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the
several occasions presented, how mean a use we
make of all these, even though we have these
powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruc-
219
tion, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of
his word added to our understanding; and why it
has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge
from so many millions of souls, who (if I might
judge by this poor savage) would make a much
better use of it than we did. From hence I some-
times was led too far to invade the sovereignty of
Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of
so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should
hide that light from some, and reveal it to others,
and yet expect a like duty from both: but I shut
it up, and checked my thoughts with this conclu-
sion, 1st, That we did not know by what light and
law these should be condemned; but that as God
was necessarily, and, by the nature of his being,
infinitely'holy and just, so it could not be, but
that if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light, which, as the Scripture says,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just,
though the foundation was not discovered to us.
And, 2dly, That still as we are all the clay in the
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him,
Why hast thou formed me thus?
But to return to my new companion: I was
greatly delighted with him, and made it my busi-
ness to teach him every thing that was proper to
make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especi-
ally to make him speak, and to understand me
when I spake; and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was, and particularly was so merry, so con-
stantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that
it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And
THE LIFE Of
now my life began to be so easy, that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe
from more savages, I cared not if I was never to
remove from the place while I lived. After I had
been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that in order to bring Friday off from his
horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a
Cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh: so I took him out with me one morning to
the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a
kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and
dress it: but as I was going, I saw a she-goat ly-
ing down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. I catched hold of Friday,—" Hold," says
I, "stand still;" and made signs to him not to stir:
immediately I presented my piece, shot and killed
one of the kids. The poor creature, who had at
a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage, his
enemy, but did not know, or could imagine, how
it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled, and
shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he
would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I
had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded,
and, as I found presently, thought 1 was resolved
to kill him; for he came and kneeled down to me,
and embracing my knees, said a great many things
I did not understand, but I could easily see that
the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm, and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did; and while he was wondering and looking to
see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
221
again, and by and by I saw a great fowl like a hawk
sitting upon a tree within shot: so, to let Friday
understand a little what I would do, I called him
to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was in-
deed a parrot, though I thought it had been a
hawk; 1 say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him see I would make it fall, I made him under-
stand that I would shoot and kill that bird. Ac-
cordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and imme-
diately he saw the parrot tall: he stood like one
frighted again, notwithstanding all I had said to
him; and I found he was the more amazed, be-
cause he did not see me put any thing into the
gun, but thought that there must be some won-
derful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, bird, or any thing near or
far off; and the astonishment this created in him,
was such, as could not wear off for a long time;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several
days after; but would speak to it, and talk to it
as if it had answered him, when he was by him-
self; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to
desire it not to kill him.—Well; after his astonish-
ment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to
run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but stayed some time; for the parrot not being
quite dead, was fluttered a good way off from the
place where she fell. However, he found her,
took her up, and brought her to me; and, as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before,
I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and
not let him see me do it, that I might be ready for
T 3
THE LIFE OF
any other mark that might present; but nothing
more offered at that time. So I brought home
the kid, and the same evening took the skin off,
and cut it out as well as I could; and having a
pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of
the flesh, and made some very good broth; and
after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very
well: but that which was strangest to him was to
see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me,
that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a
little into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and
would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
with fresh water after it. On the other hand, I
took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I
pretended to spit and sputter for the want of salt,
as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would
not do, he would never care for salt with his meat,
or in his broth; at least not a great while, and
then but a very little. Having thus fed him with
boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast him
the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this
I did by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I
had seen many people in England do, setting two
poles up, one on each side the fire, and one across
on the top, and tying the string to the cross-stick,
letting the meat turn continually. This Friday ad-
mired very much: but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that 1 could not but understand him; and
at last he told me he would never eat man's flesh
any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do:
and he soon understood how to do it as well as I,
223
especially, after he had seen what the meaning of
it was, and that it was to make bread of; for aftei
that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it
too, and in a little time Friday was able to do all
the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to do: so I marked out a larger piece
of land, and began the fence in the same manner
as before, in which Friday not only worked very
willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully;
and I told him what it was for, that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself
too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and
let me know that he thought I had much more la-
bour upon me on his account, than I had for my-
self, and that he would work the harder for me, if
I would tell him what to do. This was the plea-
santest year of all the life I led in this place: Fri-
day began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost every thing I had occasion to call
for, and of every place I had to send to, and talk a
great deal to me; so that I began now to have
some use for my tongue again, which indeed I had
very little occasion for before; that is to say, about
speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I
had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me more
and more every day, and I began really to love the
creature; and on his side, I believe he loved me
more than it was possible for him ever to love any
thing before. I had a mind once to try if he had
any hankering inclination to his own country again:
THE LIFE OF
and having taught him English so well, that he
could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him whether the nation that he belonged to never
conquered in battle? At which he smiled, and
said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better!" that
is, he meant always get the better iu fight; and
so we began the following discourse: "You al-
ways fight the better!" said I. "How came you to
be taken prisoner then, Friday V
Friday. My nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat; if your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three,
and me: my nation over beat them in the yonder
place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? do they carry them
away, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come
other else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here; (points to the N. W.
side of the island, which it seems was their side.)
By this I understood, that my man Friday had
225
formerly been among the savages, who used to come
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the
same dreadful occasions that he was now brought
for; and some time after, when I took the courage
to carry him to that side, being the same I former-
ly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me he was there once when they destroyed twenty
men, two women, and,one child: he could not tell
twenty in English; but he numbered them by lay-
ing so many stones on a row, and pointing to me
to tell them over.
After I had had this discourse with him, T asked
him, how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He
told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost;
but that after a little way out to the sea, there was
a current and a wind, always one way in the morn-
ing, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going
out, or coming in: but I afterwards understood it
was occasioned by the great draft and reflux of
the mighty river Oroonoque; in the mouth or the
gulf of which river, as I found afterwards, our
island lay; and this land, which I perceived to the
W. and N. W. was the great island of Trinidad,
on the N. point of the mouth of the river. I ask-
ed Friday a thousand questions about the country,
the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what na-
tions were near. He told me all he knew, with
the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him
the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood that these were
the Caribbees, which our maps place on that part
of America which reaches from the mouth of the
THE LIFE OF
river Oroonoque in Guiana, and onwards to St.
Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond
the moon, that was beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be west from their country,
there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
pointing to my great whiskers, which I mentioned
before; and that they had killed much mans, (that
was his word:) by all which I understood, he
meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over the whole countries, and
were remembered by all the nations from father
to son.
I enquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men.
He told me, yes, yes, I might go in two canoe. I
could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what h$ meant, by two canoe; till
at last, with great difficulty, 1 found he meant it
must be in a large great boat, as big as two ca-
noes. This part of Friday's discourse began to
relish with me very well, and from this time I en-
tertained some hopes, that one time or other I
might find opportunity to make my escape from
this place; and that this poor savage might be a
means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me and
understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind; par-
ticularly, I asked him one time who made him?
The poor creature did not understand me at all,
but thought I had asked who was his father: but
I took it by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we walked.on, and the
hills and the woods. He told me it was one old
227
Benamuckee, that lived beyond all: he could de-
scribe nothiug of this great person, but that he
was very old; much older, he said, than the sea
or the land, than the moon or the stars. 1 asked
him then, if this person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence, said,
"All things say O to him." I asked him, if the
people who die in his country went away any
where? He said, yes, they all went to Bena-
muckee. Then I asked him whether those they
killed went thither too? He said, yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the
great Maker of all things lived up there, poiuting
up towards heaven; that he governs the world by
the same power and providence by which he had
made it; that he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to us, take every
thing from us: and thus, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and re-
ceived with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and his being able to
hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day,
that if our God could hear us up beyond the sun,
he must needs be a greater God than their Bena-
muckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet
could not hear, until they went up to the great
mountains where lie dwelt, to speak to him. I
asked him if ever he went thither, to speak to
him? He said, no, they never went that were
young men; none went thither but the old men,
whom he called their Oowokakee> that is, as I
made him explain to me, their religious or clergy,
THE LIFE OF
and that they went to say O, (so he called saying
prayers,) and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there
is priestcraft, even among the most blinded ig-
norant pagans in the world; and the policy of
making a secret religion, in order to preserve the
veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all
religions in the world, even among the most bru-
tish and barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday, and told him, that the pretence of their
old men going up to the mountains to say O to
their god Benamuckee, was a cheat, and their
bringing word from thence what he said, was
much more so; that if they met with any answer,
or spoke with any one there, it must be with an
evil spirit: and then 1 entered into a long discourse
with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the rea-
son of it, and the many stratagems he made use of
to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a
secret access to our passions and to our affections,
to adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as to
cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run
upon our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right no-
tions in his mind about the devil, as it was about
the being of a God. Nature assisted all my argu-
ments to evidence to him even the necessity of a
great first cause, and over-ruling governing power,
a secret directing providence, and of the equity
and justice of paying homage to him that made
us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of
ail this in the notion of an evil spirit; of his ori-
229
ginal, his being, his nature, ^nd above all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so
too. And the poor creature puzzled me once in
such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power
of God, his omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to
sin, his being a consuming fire to the workers of
iniquity; how, as he made us all, he could destroy
us and all the world in a moment: and he listened
with great seriousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs
of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ,
and the like. "Well,1' says Friday, " but you say,
God is so strong, so great, is he not much strong,
much might as the devil?" "Yes, yes," says I,
"Friday, God is stronger than the devil, God is
above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him down under our feet, and enable us to
resist his temptations, and quench his fiery darts."
—" But," says he again, "if God much strong,
much might as the devil, why God no kill the devil,
so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at this question, and
after all, though I was now an old man, yet I was
but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a
casuist, or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I
could not tell what to say, so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said? but he was
too earnest for an answer to forget this question;
so that he repeated it in the very same broken
words, as above. By this time 1 had recovered
myself a little, and I said, " God will at last punish
u
THE LIFE OF
him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and
is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with
everlasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday, but
he returns upon me, repeating my words,—" Re-
serve at last, me no understand^ but, why not kill
the devil now, not kill great ago ?"—" You may as
well ask me," said I, "why God does not kill you
and I, when we do wicked things here that offend
him? we are preserved to repent and be pardon-
ed."—He muses a while at this; "Well, well,"
says he, mighty affectionately, " that well; so you,
I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God par-
don all."—Here I was run down again by him to
the last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how
the mere notions of nature, though they will guide
reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
and of a worship or homage due to the supreme
being of God, as the consequence of our nature;
yet nothing but divine revelation can form the
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption
purchased for us, of a mediator of the new cove-
nant, and of an intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne: I say, nothing but a revelation from
heaven, can form these in the soul; and that there-
fore the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, I mean the word of God, and the Spirit of
God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his
people, are the absolutely necessary instructors of
the souls of men, in the saving knowledge of God,
and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse be-
tween me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon
some sudden occasion of going out; then sending
him for something a good way off, I seriously
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct
231
savingly this poor savage, assisting by his Spirit
the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive
the light of the knowledge of God in Christ, recon-
ciling him to himself, and would guide me to speak
so to him,, from tlie word of God, as his conscience
might be convince^, his eyes opened, and his soul
saved. When he came again to me, I entered
into a long discourse with him, upon the subject of
the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world,
and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached from
heaven, viz. of repentance towards God, and faith
in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to
him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer
took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed
of Abraham, and how for that reason the fallen
angels had no share in the redemption; that he
came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than know-
ledge, in all the methods I took for this poor crea-
ture's instruction, and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will
find, that in laving things open to him, I really in-
formed and instructed myself in many things, that
either I did not know or had not fully considered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind,
upon my searching into them, for the information
of this poor savage; and I had more affection in
my enquiry after thiugs upon this occasion, than
ever I felt before; so that whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me:
my grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew
comfortable to me beyond measure; and when I
reflected that in this solitary life, which I had been
THE LIFE OF
confined to, I had not only been moved myself to
look up to heaven, and to seek to the hand that
had brought me thither; but was now to be made
an instrument, under Providence, to save the life,
and, for ought I know, the soul of a poor savage,
and bring him to the true knowledge of religion,
and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal; I say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I fre-
quently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
place, which I had so often thought the most
dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have
befallen'me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the re-
mainder of my time; and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and I, was
such, as made the three years which we lived there
together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be formed
in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I: though I have
reason to hope, and I bless God for it, that we
were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents; we had here the Word of God to read,
and were no further off from his Spirit to instruct,
than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself, in reading the Scrip-
tures, to let him know, as well as I could, the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his se-
rious enquiries and questions, made me, as I said
before, a much better scholar in the Scripture
knowledge, than I should ever have been by my
own private mere reading. As to all the disputes,
wranglings, strife, and contention, which has hap-
233
pened in the world about religion, whether niceties
in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all perfectly useless to us, as for ought
I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the
world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz. the
Word of God; and we had, blessed be God, com-
fortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching and
instructing us by his Word, leading us into all
truth, and making us both willing and obedient to
the instruction of his Word.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
1 said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me; I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming into the place, how I had lived there, and
how long. I let him into the mystery, for such it
was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot: I gave him a knife, which he
was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a
belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon in some cases, but much more
useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, and
particularly England, which 1 came from: how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved
to one another, and how we traded in ships to all
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and shewed
him as near as I could the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone.
I shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir
u 3
THE LIFE OF
with my whole strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Fri-
day stood musing a great while, and said nothing.
I asked him what it was he studied upon? At
last, says he, "Me see such boat like come to
place at my nation." I did not understand him a
good while; but at last, when I had examined fur-
ther into it, I understood by him, that a boat,
such as that, had come on shore upon the coun-
try where he lived, that is, as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined, that some European ship must have
been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
might get loose, and drive ashore; but was so
dull, that I never once thought of men making
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence
they might come; so I only enquired after a de-
scription of the boat. Friday described the boat
to me well enough; but brought me better to un-
derstand him, when he added with some warmth,
"We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked him if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat? "Yes," he said,
<f the boat full of white mans." I asked him how
many? He told upon his fingers seventeen. I
asked him then, what became of them? He told
me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head: for I pre-
sently imagined, that these might be the men be-
longing to the ship that was cast away in sight of
my island, as I now call it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her in-
evitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore, among the
savages.—Upon this I enquired of him more cri-
235
tically what was become of them? He assured
me they lived still there; that they had been there
about four years; that the savages let them alone,
and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him*
how it came to pass, they did not kill them and
eat them? He said, "No, they make brother with
them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce: and
then he added, "They no eat mans but when they
make the war fight;" that is to say, they never
eat any men, but such as come to fight with
them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this, some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of the
island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a
clear day discovered the main, or continent of
America; Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly towards the main land, and
in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what was the matter?
"O joy V says he, "O glad! there see my coun-
try, there my natiou 1"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and
his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as
if he had a mind to be in his own country again:
and this observation of mine put a great many
thoughts into me, which made me at first not so
easy about my new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt, but that if Friday could get
back to his own nation again, he would not only
forget all his religion, but all his obligations to
me, and would be forward enough to give his coun-
trymen an account of me, and come back perhaps,
with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast
THE LIFE OF
upon me, at which he might be as merry as he
used to be with those of his enemies, when they
were taken in war. But I wronged the poor ho-
nest creature very much, for which I was very
sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy in-
creased, and held me some weeks, I was a little
more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainly in the
wrong too, the honest grateful creature having no
thought about him, but what consisted of the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and as a
grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction. While my jealousy of him lasted,
you may be s-dre T was every day pumping him,
to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts
which I suspected were in him; but I found every
thing he said was so honest, and so innocent, that
I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion:
and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at
last entirely his own again, nor did he in the least
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could
not suspect him of deceit.
One day walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, so that we could not see
the continent, I called to him, and said, "Friday,
do not you wish yourself in your own country,
your own nation V—" Yes," he said, "I be much
O glad to be at my own nation." "What would
you do there?" said I, "would you turn wild again,
eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were
before'?" He looked full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, "No, no, Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again."
Wrhy then," said I to him, "they will kill you."
237
He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they
no kill me, they willing love learn." He meant by
this, they would be willing to learn. He added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came
in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them? He smiled at that, and told me
he could not swim so far. I told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me, he would go
if I would go with him. "I go?" says I, "why,
they will eat me if I come there!" "No, no,"
says he, "me make they no eat you, me make
they much love you." He meant, he would tell
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his
life, and so he would make them love me. Then
he told me, as well as he could, how kind they
were to the seventeen white men, or bearded
men, as he called them, who came on shore there
in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to ven-
ture over, and see if I could possibly join with
these bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were
Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I
could, we might find some method to escape from
thence, being upon the continent, and a good com-
pany together, better than I could from an island
forty miles off the shore, and alone without help.
So, after some days, I took Friday to work again,
by way of discourse, and told him I would give
him a boat to go back to his own nation: and
accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay
on the other side of the island, and having cleared
it of water, (for I always kept it sunk in the
water,) I brought it out, shewed it him, and we
both went into it. I found he was a most dex-
terous fellow at managing it, would make it go
THE LIFE OF
almost as swift and fast again as I could: so when
lie was in, I said to him, "Well, now, Friday,
shall we go to your nation?" He looked very
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was, be-
cause he thought the boat too small to go so far.
I told him then I had a bigger: so the next day I
went to the place where the first boat lay which I
had made, but which I could not get into the
water. He said, that was big enough: but then,
as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two
or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Fri-
day told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread;
that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed
upon my design of going over with him to the
continent, that I told him we would go and make
one as big as that, and he should go home in it.
He answered not one word, but looked very grave
and sad. I asked him what was the matter with
him? He asked me again thus, "Why you angry
mad with Friday? what me done?" I asked him
what he meant? 1 told him 1 was not angry with
him at all. "No angry! no angry!*' says he, re-
peating the word several times; "why send Fri-
day home away to my nation?" "Why," says I,
"Friday, did not you say you wished you were
there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both
there, no wish Friday there, no master there." In
a word, he would not think of going without me.
"I go there, Friday!" says I, "what shall 1 do
there?" He turned very quick upon me at this:
"You do great deal much good," says he, "you
teach wild mans be good sober tame mans; you
239
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."
"Alas, Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what
thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself."
"Yes, yes," says he, "you teachee me good, you
teachee them good." "No, no, Friday," says I,
"you shall go without me; leave me here to live
by myself, as I did before." He looked confused
again at that word, and running to one of the
hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up
hastily, and gives it to me. "What must I do
with this?" says I to him. "You take kill Fri-
day," says he. "What must I kill you for?" said
I again. Ke returns very quick, "What you send
Friday away for? take kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw
tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and
a firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and
often after, that I would never send him away from
me, if he was willing to stay with me.
I still found a strong inclination to attempt my
escape; founded on the supposition that there
were seventeen bearded men there: and therefore,
without any more delay, I went to work with Fri-
day to find out a great tree proper to fell, and
make a large periagua or canoe, to undertake the
voyage. There were trees enough in the island to
have built a little fleet, not of periaguas and ca-
noes, but even of good large vessels. But the
main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the
water, that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to
THE LIFE OF
call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call Fustic, or between that and
the Nicaragua-wood, for it was much of the same
colour and smell. Friday was for burning the
hollow or cavity of this tree out to make it into a
boat: but I shewed him how rather to cut it out
with tools; which, after I had shewed him how to
use, he did very handily, and in about a month's
hard labour we finished it, and made it very hand-
some, especially when with our axes, which I shew-
ed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the out-
side into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great
rollers into the water: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and
how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along: so I asked him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her?
"Yes," he said, "he venter over in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had a fur-
ther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an
anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get: so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and
which there was great plenty of in the island; and
I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him
directions how to shape and order it. But as to
the sail, that was my particular care: I knew I
had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails enough;
but as I had had them now twenty-six years by
me, and had not been very careful to preserve
Ml
them, not imagining that I should ever have this
kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were
all rotten, and indeed most of them were so.
However, I found two pieces which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work: and
with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious
stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles, 1
at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like
what we call in England, a shoulder-of-mutton sail,
to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short
sprit at the top, such as usually our ships7 long-
boats sail with, and such as 1 best knew how to
manage; because it was such a one as I used in
the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary,
as related in the first part of my story. I was
near two months performing this last work, viz.
rigging and fitting my masts and sails: for I finish-
ed them very complete, making a small stay, and
a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn
to windward; and which was more than all, I fixed
a rudder to the stern of her, to steer with; and
though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do
it, that at last I brought it to pass, though, con-
sidering the many dull contrivances I had for it
that failed, I think it cost me almost as much
labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle
a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder, and was the most amazed when he
saw me work the ,boat to and again in the sea by
the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this
x
THE LIFE OF
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonish-
ed and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him; and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I could
make him understand very little of that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the
stars were always to be seen by night, and the
shore by day, except in the raining seasons, and
then nobody cared to go abroad, either by land
or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my captivity in this place; though the three
last years I had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the account, my habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time.
I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies, as at first:
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first,
I had much more so now, having such additional
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and
the great hopes I had of being effectually and spee-
dily delivered; for I had an invincible impression
upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this
place. However, I went on with my husbandry,
digging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and
cured my grapes, and did every necessary thing as
before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other
times: so I had stowed our new vessel as secure
as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where,
243
as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from
the ship, and hauling her up to the shore, at high
water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough
to give her water enough to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam
across the end of it, to keep the water out. So
she lay dry, as to the tide, from the sea; and to
keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of
trees, so thick, that she was as well thatched as a
house: and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which 1 designed to
make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did, was to lay by a certain quantity of pro-
visions, being the stores for our voyage; and I
intended, in a week or fortnight's time, to open the
dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morning upon something of this kind, when I called
to Friday, and bade him go to the sea shore, and see
if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been
long gone, when he came running back, and flew
over my outer wall, or fence, like one "that felt not
the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and
before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to
me, "O master! master! O sorrow! O bad!"
"What's the matter, Friday \" says I. "O yonder,
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe! one,
two, three!" By his way of speaking, I conclud-
ed there were six; but on enquiry I found there
were but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do not
THE LIFE OF
be frighted:" so I heartened him up as well as I
could. However, I saw the poor fellow was most
terrible scared: for nothing ran in his head but
that they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces; and the poor fellow trembled so,
that I scarce knew what to do with him. I com-
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they would kill
me as well as him: "but," says I, " Friday^ we
must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Frih
day?" "Me shoot," says he, "but there come
many great number." "No matter for that," said
I again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
kill." So I asked him, whether, if I resolved to
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me,
and do just as I bade him? He said, "Me die, when
you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a
good dram of rum, and gave him; for I had been
so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great
deal left. When he had drank it, I made him take
the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried,
and load them with large swan-shot, as big as small
pistol-bullets: then I took four muskets, and load-
ed them with two- slugs and five small bullets each;
and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each: I hung my great sword as usual naked by my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill?
to see what I could discover: and 1 found quickly,
by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty sava-
ges, three prisoners, and three canoes. I observed
also, that they were landed not where they had
done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to
my creek, where the shore was low, and where a
245
thick wood came close almost down to the sea:
this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came about, filled me with such
indignation that I came down again to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go down to them, and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by
me? He had now gotten over his fright, and his
spirits being a little - raised with the dram I had
given him, he was very cheerful, and told me as
before, "he would die when I bid die." In this
fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which
I charged as before, between us: I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the
other three myself; and in this posture we march-
ed out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket,
and gave Friday a large bag, with more* powder
and bullet: and as to orders, 1 charged him to
keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot,
or do any thing, till I bade him; and in the mean
time, not to speak a word. In this posture I fetch-
ed a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as
well to get over the creek, as to get into the wood;
so that I might come within shot of them before I
should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolu-
tion. I do not mean, that I entertained any fear
of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, 'tis certain I was superior to them; nay,
though I had been alone: but it occurred to my
thoughts, what call? what occasion? much less,
what necessity was I in to go and dip my hands
in blood, to attack people who had neither done
x 3
nor intended me any wrong? These things were
so warmly pressed upon my thoughts, all the way
as I went, that I resolved I would only go and
place myself near them, that I might observe their
barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct; but that unless something offered
that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I
would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and
with all possible wariness and silence, Friday fol-
lowing close at my heels, I marched till I came to
the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next
to them, only that one corner of the wood lay be-
tween me and them. Here I called softly to Fri-
day, and shewing him a great tree, which was
just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to
the tree and bring me word if he could see there
plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they
might be plainly viewed there; that they were
all about their fire, and that a prisoner lay bound
upon the sand, a little from them, which he said
they would kill, and which fired all the very soul
within me, when he told me it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men, who had come
to their country in the boat. You may be sure,
that upon hearing this, my soul was ready to sink
within me; when ascending up into a tree, I saw
plainly by my glass, a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied
with flags, or things resembling rushes, being co-
vered with clothes, and seemed to be a European.
From the tree where I took this prospect, 1 per-
ceived another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than where I was, which,
247
by taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I should be within half a
shot of these devourers. And this consideration
alone, to be more perfectly revenged upon them,
made me withhold my passion, though I was en-
raged to the highest degree imaginable: when
going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then I ascended a little rising
ground, not above eighteen yards distance from
them, and there I had a full view of these crea-
tures, and I could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me not
to lose a moment's time. There were no less than
nineteen of these dreadful wretches set upon the
ground, close huddled together, expressing all the
delight imaginable at so barbarous an entertain-
ment; and they had just sent the other two to
murder this poor unhappy Christian, and bring
him perhaps limb by limb to the fire, for they
were just then going to untie the bands from his
feet, in order for death, as fetters are knocked off
from the feet of malefactors before they go to the
place of execution. Hereupon, immediately turn-
ing to my man, "Now, Friday," said I, "mind
what I say, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you
see me do." All which he promised me he^ would
perform. I set down one of my muskets and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the same by his; and with the other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like.
"Are you ready?" said I. "Yes, master," said
he. "Why then fire at them," said I; and at that
moment I fired at them.
For my part> I killed one and wounded two:
THE LIFE OF
but my man Friday, taking his aim much better
than I, killed two and wounded three. You may
be sure they were in a dreadful consternation at
such an unexpected disaster; and those who yet
hatl escaped our penetrating shot, immediately
jumped upon their feet, but were in such confu-
sion that they knew not which way to run or look,
not knowing from whence their destruction came.
We then threw down our pieces and took up
others, giving a second dreadful volley; but as
they were loaded only with swan shot, or small
pistol-bullets, we perceived only two of them fall;
but so many were wounded, that they ran yelling
and screaming about like mad creatures.
"Now, Friday," said I, "lay down your piece
and take up the musket, and follow me.1' He did
so with great courage, when shewing ourselves to
the savages, we gave a great shout, and made
directly to*" the poor victim, who would have been
sacrificed, had not our first fire obliged the
butchers, with the three others, to jump into a
canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them, at
which shot I thought he had killed them all, by
reason of their falling to the bottom of the boat:
however, he killed two, and mortally wounded a
third. In the mean time I cut the flags that tied
the hands and feet of the poor creature, and lift-
ing him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue,
what he was? He answered me in Latin, «' Chris-
tianus;" but so very weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. Immediately 1 gave him a
dram and a piece of bread to cherish him, and
asked him what countryman he was? He said,
"Espanioia," and then uttered all the thankfulness
imaginable for his deliverance. "Seignior," said
I, with as much Spanish as I was master of, let us
talk afterwards, but fight now; here, take this
sword and pistol, and do what you can." And
indeed he did so with such courage and intrepidity,
that he cut two of them to pieces in an instant,
(the savages not having it in their power to fly for
their lives). I ordered Friday to run for those
pieces we had left at the tree, which he brought
to me with great swiftness, and then I gave him my
musket, while I loaded the rest. But now there
happened a fierce encounter between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who had made at him
with one of their wooden swords: and thpugh the
former was as brave as could be expected, having
twice wounded his enemy in the head, yet being
faint, the Indian had thrown him upon the ground,
and was wresting my sword out of his hand; which
the Spaniard very wisely quitting, drew out his
pistol and shot him through the body before I could
come near him, though I was running to his
assistance. As to Friday, he pursued the flying
wretches with his hatchet, dispatching three; but
the rest were too nimble for him. The Spaniard
taking up one of the fowling-pieces, wounded two,
who running into the wood, Friday pursued and
killed one, but the other, notwithstanding his
wounds, plunged himself into the sea, and swam
to those who were left in the canoe, which, with
one wounded, were all that escaped out of 21.
The account is as follows:
Killed at the first shot from the tree 3
At the second shot 2
By Friday in the boat 2
Ditto of those first wounded 2
Ditto in the wood 1
THE LIFE OF
By the Spaniard 3
Killed or.died of their wounds 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded
if npt slain 4
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
pursuing them; and indeed I was no less anxious
about their escape, lest, after the news had been
carried to their people, they should return in
multitudes, and destroy us. So being resolved to
pursue them, I jumped ,into one of their canoes,
and bade Friday to follow me; but no sooner was
I in, when to my surprise I found another poor
creature, bound hand and foot for the slaughter,
just as the Spaniard had been, with very little life
in him. Immediately I unbound him, and would
have helped him up/but he could neither stand nor
speak, but groaned piteously, thinking he was only
unbound in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid
Friday speak to him, and tell him of his deliver-
ance: when pulling out my bottle, I made the poor
wretch drink a dram; which, with the joyful news
he had received, so revived his heart, that he sat
up in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear
him speak, and looked more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive his
uucommon transports of joy: for he kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hal-
looed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his face and head,
then sung and jumped about again, like a dis-
tracted creature; so that it was a great while before
251
I could make him .speak to me, or tell me what
was the matter with him; but when he came to
the liberty of his speech, at last he told me, it was
his father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see the
dutiful and tender affection this poor savage had to
his aged parent. He would sit down by him in
the boat, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together, to
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
were stiff and numbed with binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving
what the case was, gave him some rum, which
proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight, and happy it was
we did not pursue them; for there arose from the
north-west, which continued all night long, such a
violent storm, that I could not suppose otherwise
but that they were all drowned. After this I called
Friday to me, and asked him if he had given his
father any bread? He shook his head, and said,
"None, not one bit, me eat a up all?" So I gave
him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried
for this end. I likewise gave him a dram for him-
self, and two or three bunches of raisins for his
father. Both these he carried to him, for he
would make him drink the dram to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was
bewitched, with such an extraordinary swiftness,
that he was out of sight as it were in an instant;
but at his return, 1 perceived him slacken his pace,
because he had something in his hand, and this
I found to be, as he approached nearer, an earthen
jug with some water for his father, and two more
THE LIFE OF
cakes of bread, which he delivered into my hands.
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which, when his father had drank suffi-
ciently, it more revived his spirits than all the rum
I had given him.
When his father had drank, I called to him to
know if there was any water left. He said, "Yes/7
and I bid him give it to the poor Spaniard, who
was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spani-
ard too, who was, indeed, very weak, and was re-
posing himself upon a green place, under the shade
of a tree, and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had
been tied with. When I saw that, upon Friday's
coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank,
and took the bread and began to eat, 1 went to him,
and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up
in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness, that could appear in any counte-
nance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not
stand upon his feet. He tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so
swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turned his head about, to see if his father was
in the same place and posture as he left him sit-
ting; and at last he found he was not to be seen:
at which he started up, and, without speaking a
word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one
could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground
as he went. But when he came, he only found he
had laid himself down to ease his limbs; so Friday
came back to me presently, and I then spoke to
the Spaniard to let Friday help him up if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him. Upon which Friday made nothing- to take
him upon his back, and so carried him to the ca-
noe, setting him close by his father; and presently
stepping out again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs to
fetch the other canoe, which he brought to the
creek almost as soon as 1 got to it by land; when
wafting me over, he took our new guests out of
the boat. But so weak were they, that 1 was for-
ced to make a kind of hand-barrow; and-when I
came to my castle, not being willing to make an
entrance into my wall, we made them a handsome
tent, covered with old sails and boughs of trees,
making two good beds of rice straw, with blankets
to lie upon and cover them. Thus, like an abso-
lute king, over subjects who owed their lives to
me, I thought myself very great, especially, consi-
dering I had three religions in my kingdom, my
man Friday being a protestant, his father a pagan,
and the Spaniard a papist; but I gave liberty of
conscience to them all.*
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects,
I ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat, which
when he had done it, I cut off the hinder quarters,
and chopping it into small pieces, boiled and
stewed it, putting barley and rice into the broth.
This I carried into their tent, set a table, dined
Y
THE LIFE OF
with them myself, and encouraged them. Friday
was my interpreter to his father, and indeed to
the Spaniard too, who spoke the language of
the savages pretty well. After dinner I ordered
Friday to fetch home all our arms from the field
of battle, and the next day to bury the dead
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now 1 made Friday enquire of his father,
whether he thought those savages had escaped
the late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether
they would not return with a power too great for
us to resist? He answered, that he thought it
impossible they should outlive the storm; or if
they were driven southwardly, they would come
to a land where they would as certainly be de-
voured, as if they were drowned in the sea; and
suppose they had attained their own country, the
strangeness of their bloody and fatal attack,
would make them tell their people, that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning, not
by the hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits
(meaning Friday and me) who were sent from
above to destroy them; and this he said he knew,
because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he was in the right of it;
for I have heard since, that these four men gave
out, that whoever went to that enchanted island,
would be destroyed by fire from the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead of
which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured me
I should have good usage in his country. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen and Portuguese, who had been
255
shipwrecked, made their escape thither; that
though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries. When I had asked him
about the particulars of his voyage, he answered,
that their ship was bound from Rio de la Plata to
the Havannah: that when the ship was lost, only
five men perished in the ocean, and the rest
having saved themselves in a boat, were now
landed on the main continent. "And what do
they intend to do there?" said I. He replied,
they had concerted measures to escape by build-
ing them a vessel, but they had neither tools nor
provisions; so that all their designs came to
nothing. "Supposing," said I, "I should make
them a proposal, and invite them here, would not
they carry me prisoner to New Spain'?" He
answered, No, for he knew them to be such
honest men, as would scorn to act such inhuman
baseness to their deliverer: that, if I pleased,
he and the old savage would go over to them, talk
with them about it, and bring me an answer; that
they should all swear fidelity to me as their
leader, upon the holy sacraments; and that, for
his part, he would not only do the same, but
stand by me to the last drop of his blood, should
there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over for
that purpose: but when every thing was ready,
the Spaniard raised an objection, which carried a
great deal of weight in it. "You know, Sir/' said
he, "that being some time with you, I cannot
but be sensible of your stock of rice and corn,
sufficient perhaps for us at present, but not for
THE LIFE OF
them, should they come over presently; much less
to victual a vessel for an intended voyage. Want
might be as great an occasion for them to disagree
and rebel as the Children of Israel did against God
himself, when they wanted bread in the wilderness;
and therefore my advice is to wait another harvest,
and, in the mean time, cultivate and improve some
more land, whereby we mayjiave plenty of provi-
sions, in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard I approved of ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that
I esteemed him ever after. And thus we all four
went to work upon some more land, and against
seed-time we had got so much cured and trimmed
up, as was sufficient to sow twenty-two bushels of
barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was in
short all the seed we had to spare. As we were
four in number, and by this time all in good health,
we feared not an hundred Indians, should they
venture to attack us. And while the corn was
growing, 1 pitched upon some trees fit to build us
a large vessel, in case the Spaniards came over;
which being marked, I ordered Friday and his
father to cut them down, appointing the Spaniard,
who was now my privy counsellor, to oversee and
direct the work. I likewise increased my flock
of goats, by shooting the wild darns, and bringiug
home their kids to my inclosure: nor did I neg-
lect the grape season, but cured them as usual,
though I had such a quantity now as would have
filled eighty barrels with raisins. And thus all of
us being employed, they in working, and I in
providing for them, till harvest came, God Al-
mighty blessed the increase of it so much, that
from twenty-two bushels of barley, we threshed
257
out two hundred and twenty, and the like quan-
tity of rice, sufficient to victual a ship, to carry me
and all the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered by
a sufficient stock of provision, I sent my two am-
bassadors over to the main land, with a regal
authority to administer the oaths of allegiance and
fidelity, and have an instrument signed under
their hands, though I never asked whether they
had pen, ink, or paper; when giving each of them
a musket, eight charges of powder and ball, and
provisions enough for eight days, they sailed
away with a fair gale, on a day when the moon
was at the full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head,
but impatient for their return, I laid me down to
sleep one morning, when a strange accident hap-
pened, which was ushered in by my man's com-
ing running to me, and calling aloud, "Master,
master, they are come, they are come." Upon
which, not dreaming of any danger, out I jumps
from my bed, puts on my clothes, and hurries
through my little grove; when looking towards the
sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half
distant, standing in for the shore, with the wind
fair. I beheld they did not come from the side
where the land lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island: so these being none of the
people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still, till
such time as I came down from the mountain, which
with my ladder I now ascended, in order to dis-
cover more fully what they were: and now, with
the help of my perspective glass, I plainly per-
ceived an English ship, which I concluded it to be
by the fashion of its long-boat, and which filled me
\ 3
THE LIFE OF
with such uncommon transports of joy, that 1
cannot tell how to describe; and yet some secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from I know
not what cause, as though I had reason to be upon
my guard. And indeed 1 would have no man
condemn the secret hints and intimations of danger,
which very often are given, when he may imagine
- there is no possibility of their being real; for had
I not been warned by this silent admonition, I had
been in a worse situation than before, and perhaps
inevitably ruined.
Not long it was before 1 perceived the boat to
approach the shore, as though they looked for a
place where they might conveniently land, and at
Jast they ran their boat on shore upon the beach,
about half a mile s distance, which proved so much
the happier for me; since if they had come into
the creek, they had landed just at my door, and
might not only have forced me out of my castle*
but plundered me of all 1 had in the world. Now
I was fully convinced they were all Englishmen,
three of whom were unarmed and bound; when
immediately the first four or live leaped on shore,
and took those three out of the boat as prisoners;
one of whom I could perceive used the most pas-
sionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and. de-
spair, while the others, in a lesser degree, shewed
abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very
much astonished, and I beckoned to Friday (who
was below) to ascend the mountain, and likewise
view , this sight. "O master," says he to me,
• "you see English mans eat prisoners, as well as
savage mans." "And do you think they will cat
•them, Friday?" said I. "Yes," said Friday,
259
"they eat all up."—" No, no," said I, "Friday, I
am much more concerned lest they should murder
them; as for eating them up, that I am sure they
never will."
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and savage with me, but
also that I could not come within shot of them un-
perceived, (they having no fire-arms among them,)
and save these three men, whom I thought they
were going to kill with their swords. But some
comfort it was to me, that I perceived they were
set at liberty to go where they pleased; but they
sat down all three upou the ground very pensive,
and looked like men in despair. This put me in
mind of the first time when I came on shore, and
began to look about me: how I gave myself over
for lost, how wildly I looked round me, what dread-
ful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged in the
tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing of the supply 1 was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship
nearer to the land, by the storms and tide, by
which I have since been so long nourished and
supported; so these three poor desolate men knew
nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they
were, how near it was to them, and how effectu-
ally and ready they were in a condition of safety,
at the same time that they thought themselves lost,
and their case desperate. So little do we see be-
fore us in the world, and so much reason have we
to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the
world, that he does not leave his creatures so ab-
solutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstan-
ces they have -always something' to be thankful for,
and some ti m es are nea rer their deliverance than;
THE LIFE OF
they imagine; nay, are even brought to their de-
liverance by ;the means by which they seem to be
brought to their destruction. The rascally seamen
scattered about as though they had a mind to see
the place; and so long did they negligently ram-
ble, that the tide had ebbed so low as to leave
the boat a-ground. Nor were the two men that
were in her more circumspect, for having drank a
little too much liquor, they fell fast asleep; but
one of them waking before the other, and perceiv-
ing the boat too fast a-ground for his strength to
move it, he hallooed out to the rest, who made
all possible expedition to come to him: but as
Providence ordered it, all their force was ineffec-
tual to launch her, when I could hear them speak
to one another, "Why let her alone, Jack, can't
ye, she'll float next tide;" by which words I was
fully convinced that they were my countrymen.
All this while I lay very quiet, as being fully
sensible, it could be no less than ten hours before
the boat would be afloat, and then it would be so
dark, as that they could not easily perceive me, by
which means I should be at more liberty to hear
their talk, and observe all their motions: not but
that I prepared for my defence; yet as I had now
another sort of enemies to combat with, I acted
with more caution. I took two fusees on my
shoulder, and gave Friday three muskets; besides,
my formidable goat's-skin coat, and monstrous
cap, made me look as fierce and terrible as Her-
cules of old, especially when two pistols were
stuck in ray belt, and my naked sword hanging by
my side.
It was my design at first not to make any at-
tempt till it was dark; but it being now two
261
o'clock in the very heat of the day, the sailors were
all straggling into the woods, and undoubtedly were
lain down to sleep. The three poor distressed
creatures, too anxious to get any repose, were
however seated under the shade of a great tree,
about a quarter of a mile from me, and before I
was perceived, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
"What are you, gentlemen?"
At these words they started up in great confu-
sion, and beholding the strange figure I made, they
returned me no answer, but seemed as if they
would fly from me. "Gentlemen," said I, in
English, "don't be afraid: perhaps you have a
friend nearer you than you expect." "He must
be from heaven," said one of them gravely, and
pulling off his hat, "for we are past all help in this
world." "All help is from heaven," said 1; "but,
Sir, as I have perceived every action between you
and these brutes, since your landing, only inform
me how to assist you, and 1 will do it to the
utmost of my power."
"Am I talking with God or man?" said he,
melting with tears, "are you of human kind, or
an angel?" "Sir," said 1, "my poor habit may
tell you 1 am a man, and an Englishman, willing
to assist you, having but this servant only: here
are arms and ammunition; tell freely your con-
dition, can we save you?" "The story," said he,
"is too long to relate, since our butchers are so
near. But, Sir, I was master of that ship; my
men have mutinied, and it is a favour they have
put my mate, this passenger, and me, on shore,
without murdering of us, though we expect nothing
but to perish here." "Are your enemies gone?"
said 1. "No," replied he, pointing to a thicket,
THE LIFE OF
"there they lie; while my heart trembles, lest
having seen and heard us, they should murder us
all." "Have they fire-arms?" said I. "They
have but two pieces," said he, "one of which is
left in the boat." He also told me there were two
enormous villains among them, that were the
authors of this mutiny, who, if they were killed or
seized, might induce the rest to return to obedi-
ence. "Well, well," said I, "let us retire further
under the covering of the wood;" and there it was
1 made these conditions with him:
I. That while they stayed in the island, they
should not pretend to any authority, but be entirely
conformable to my orders, and return tne the arms
which I should put into their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Friday and me our passage gratis to .Eng-
land.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave each of them a gun, with powder
and ball sufficient, advising them to fire upon them
as they lay. The captain modestly said, that he
was sorry to kill them; though, on the other hand,
to let these villains escape, who were the authors
of his misery, might be the ruin of us all, should
they bring the ship's company upon us. "Well,"
said he, "do as you think fit:" and so according-
ly I fired, killing one of the captain's chief ene-
mies, and wounding the other, who eagerly called
for assistance; but the captain (who had reserved
his piece) coming up to him, "Sirrah," said he,
"it is too late to call for assistance, you should
rather cry to God to pardon your villany;" so
knocked him down with the stock of his gun.
Three others were also slightly wounded, who at
263
my approach cried out for mercy. This the cap-
tain granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however, I obliged the captain
to keep them bound. After which, I sent Friday
and the captain's mate to secure the boat, and
bring away the oars and sail; when at their return,
three men coming back, and seeing their late dis-
tressed captain, now their conqueror, submitted
to be bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my whole
life, which he heard with a serious and wonderful
attention. After this, I carried him and his two
men into my little fortified castle, shewed them all
my conveniences, and refreshed them with such
provisions as I could afford. When this was over,
we began to think about regaining the ship. He
said that there were twenty-six hands on board,
who knowing their lives were forfeited by the law,
for conspiracy and mutiny, would grow so very
hardened, that it would be dangerous for our small
company to attack them. Thi£ was a reasonable
inference indeed; but something we did resolve on,
and immediately put in execution: for we heaved
the boat upon the beach so high, that she could
not shoot off at high-water mark, and broke a hole
in her, not easily to be stopped; and so all the
signals they gave for the boat to come on board
were in vain. This obliged them to send another
boat a-shore, with ten men armed, whose faces
the captain plainly descried, the boatswain being
the chief officer; but he said there were three
honest lads among them, who were forced into the
conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage,
(for I had perceived he was in concern,) in the
THE LIFE OF
mean while securing; our prisoners, part in my cas-
tle, over whom Friday stood sentinel; but two
others we took into our service, and then thought
ourselves strong enough to adventure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their boat in
that condition, they not only hallooed, but fired,
for their companions to hear, yet they received no
answer. This struck them with horror and amaze-
ment, thinking their companions were murdered;
then they made as if they \Vould return to the ship.
I could perceive the captain's countenance change
at, this, till of a sudden three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leaped
on shore, in order to search for their companions:
and indeed they came to the brow of the hill, near
•my ancient castle, from whence they could see a
great way into the woods, and there shouting and
hallooing till tired and weary, at length seated
themselves under a spreading tree. My opinion
was, that nothing could be done till night, when I
might use some artifice to get them out of the
boat: but of a sudden they all started up, and
made to the sea-side. Hereupon I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the creek, and
halloo as loud as they could, and so, decoying
them into the woods, come round to me again.
And this indeed had its effect, for they followed
the noise, till coming westward to the creek, they
called for their boat to carry them over, taking one
of the men out of her, and leaving two to look
after her, having fastened her to the stump of a
little tree on shore. Hereupon immediately the
captain and our party passing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised them both by the captain's
knocking down one, and ordering the other to
265
surrender on pain of death; and* who, being the
honestest of them all, sincerely joined with us.
By this time it was pretty late, when the rest
returning to their boat, which they found a-ground
in the creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was an
enchanted island, and that they should be all mur-
dered by spirits or devils. My men would wil-
lingly have fallen upon them, but I would not
agree to nazard any of our party. But to be more
certain, Friday and the captain crawled upon their
hands and feet as near as possible: and when the
boatswain approached in sight, so eager was the
captain, that he fired and killed him upon the spot.
Friday wounded the next man, and the third ran
away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army, and it being dark, I ordered the man whom
we had surprised with the boat, to call them by
their names, and to parley with them. Accord-
ingly he called aloud, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith I"
He answered, "Who's that? Robinson?'4 The
other answered, "For God's sake, Tom, surrender
immediately, or you are all dead men/*—" Who
must we surrender to?" says Smith. "To our
captain and fifty men here, who have taken me
prisoner, wounded Will Fryes, and killed the boat-
swain." "Shall we have quarter then?" said he.
Hereupon the captain calls out, "You, Smith,
you know my voice; surrender immediately, and
you shall all have your lives granted, except Will
Atkins." Hereupon Atkins cried out, "What
have I done, captain, more than the rest, who
have been as bad as meV But that was a lie,
for he was the person that laid hold of him; and
boqnd him. However, he was ordered to submit
z
THE LIFE OF
to the governor's mercy, for such was I called.
And so, laying down their arras, we bound them
all, and seized on their boat.
After this the captain expostulated with them,
telling them, that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought
they would be sent to England, except Will Atkins,
who was ordered to prepare for death next morn-
ing. Hereupon Atkins implored the captain to
intercede for his life, and the rest begged they
might not be sent to England. Thus answered our
project for seizing.the ship. For sending Atkins,
and two of the worst, fast bound, to the cave, and
the rest being committed to my bower, I sent the
captain to treat with them, in the governor's name,
offeriug them pardon, if they would assist him in
recovering the ship. Upon which they all promis-
ed to stand by him to the last drop of their blood;
and whoever acted treacherously should be hanged
in chains upon the beach. They were all released
on these assurances: and then the captain re-
paired the other boat, making his passenger captain
of her, with four men well armed; while his mate,
himself, and five men more, went in the other.
By midnight they came within call of the ship,
when the captain ordered Robinson to hale her, and
tell them that, with great difficulty, they had found
the men at last. But while they were discoursing,
the captain, his mate, and the rest, entered, and
knocking down the second mate and carpenter,
secured those that were upon deck, by putting
them under hatches, while the other boats
crew entered and secured the forecastle: they
then broke into the round-house, where the mate,
after some resistance, shot the pirate captain
267
through the head; upon which all the rest yielded
themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being
recovered, the joyful signal was fired, which I
heard with the greatest joy imaginable: nor was
it long before he brought the ship to an anchor at
the creek's mouth, when coming to me unawares,
"There," says he, "my dearest friend and deli-
verer, there is your ship, and we are your
servants;*' a comfort so unspeakable, as made me
swoon in his arms, while, with gratitude to Heaven,
we were tenderly embracing each other. I told
him, I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven
to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seem-
ed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as
these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand
of Providence governing the world, and an evidence,
that the eyes of an infinite power could search into
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased.—I forgot not
to lift up my heart in thankfulness to heaven, and
what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had not
only in a miraculous manner provided for one in
such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition,
but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed.
Nothing now remained but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not safe to take on board. Hereupon, con-
certing with the captain, I dressed myself in one
of his suits, and sending for them, told them, that
as I was going to leave the island with all my peo-
ple, if they would tarry there, their lives should be
spared; if not, they should be hanged at the first
port we came to. They agreed to stay. Here-
upon I told them my whole story, charging them
THE LIFE OF
to be kind to the Spaniards that were expected
gave them all my arms, and informing them of
every thing necessary for their subsistence, 1 and
my man Friday went on board. But the next
morning two of the men came swimming to the
ship's side, desiring the captain to take them on
board, though he hanged them afterwards, com-
plaining mightily how barbarously the others used
them. Upon which I prevailed with the captain
to take them in, and being severely whipped and
pickled, they proved more honest for the future.
And so I bid farewell to this island, carrying along
with me my money, parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap, setting sail Dec. 12, 1686, after twenty-
eight years, two months, and nineteen days' resi-
dence, that same day and month that 1 escaped
from Sallee, landing in England June 11, 1687,
after thirty-five years' absence from my own coun-
try, which rendered me altogether a stranger
there.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive,
who had buried a second husband, but in very
mean circumstances, and whom I made mighty
easy upon my account. Soon after, I went down
to Yorkshire, where all my family were expired,
except two sisters, and as many of one of my
brother's children. I found no provision had been
made for me, they concluding I had been long
since dead; so that I was but in a very slender
situation. Indeed the captain did me a great
kindness, by his report to the owners, how 1 had
delivered their ship on the desolate island; upon
which they made me a present of 2001. sterling.
I next went to Lisbon, taking my man Friday with
me, and arriving there in April, I met the Portu-
269
guese captain, who took me on board on the
African coast; but being ancient, he had left off
the sea, and resigned all his business lo his son,
who followed the Brasil trade. So altered both of
us were, that we did not know each other at first,
till I discovered myself more fully to him. After
a few embraces, I began to enquire of my con-
cerns, and then the old gentleman told me, that it
was nine years since he had been at Brasil, where
my partner was then living, but my trustees were
both dead; that it was his belief I should have a
good account of the product of my plantation;
that the imagination of my being lost, had obliged
my trustees to give an estimate of my share to the
procurator-fiscal, who, in case of my not returning,
had given one-third to the king, and the rest to the
monastery of St. Augustine; but if I put in my
claim, or any one for me, it would be returned,
except the yearly product, which was given to the
poor. I then desired him to tell me, what im-
provement he thought had been made of my plan-
tation; and whether he imagined it was worth my
while to look after it? He answered, that he did
not know how much it was improved, but this he
was certain of; that my partner was grown vastly
rich upon his half of it, and that he had been
informed, that the king had 200 moidores for his
third part. He added, that the survivors of my
trustees were persons of an ingeuuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means
indisputably 1 should recover considerable sums of
money.—" But," answered I, "how could my
trustees dispose of my effects, when I made you
only my heir?" "This," he said, "was true, but
Z 3
THE LIFE OF
there being no affidavit made of my death, he
could not act as an executor." However, he had
ordered his son (then at Brasil) to act by procura-
tion upon my account, and he had taken posses-
sion of my sugar-house, having accounted himself
for eight years with my partner and trustees for
the profits, of which he would give me a very
good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully in
a few days, making himself indebted to me 470
moid ores of gold, over and above what had been
lost at sea, after I had left the place. And then
he recounted to me what misfortunes he had gone
through which forced my money out of his hands,
to buy part in a new ship: "But," says he, "you
shall not want; take this, and when my son re-
turns, every farthing shall be paid you/' Upon
which he put into my hand a purse of 150
moidores in gold, as likewise the instrument con-
taining the title to the ship in which his son was,
and which he offered as security for the remainder.
But really, when I saw so much goodness, gene-
rosity, tenderness, and real honesty, I had not the
heart to accept it, for fear he should straiten him-
self on my account. "It is true," said he, "it
may be so; but the money is yours, not mine, and
you may have the greatest occasion for it." How-
ever, I returned fifty of them, promising to give
him the other hundred when I got my effects in
my hands, saying, I designed to go myself for that
purpose. But he told me he could save me the
trouble; and so caused me to enter my name with
a public notary, as likewise my affidavit, with a
procuration affixed to it; and he advised me to
send it in a letter to one of his acquaintance, a nier-
271
chant at Brasil. And indeed nothing could be
more faithfully and honourably observed; for in
seven months' time I had a very faithful account
of all my effects, what sums were raised, what
expended, and what remained for my use: in a
word, I found myself worth 50001. sterling, and
10001. per annum. Nor was this all, for my part-
ner congratulated me upon my being alive, telling
me how much my plantation was improved, what
negroes were at work, and how many Ave Marias
he had said to the Virgin Mary for my preserva-
tion, desiring me to accept kindly some presents
he had sent me, which I found shewed the great-
est generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded
my faithful captain, by returning hirn the hundred
moid ores; and not only forgiving him all he owed
me, I allowed him yearly a hundred more, and
fifty to his son, during their lives. And now
being resolved to go to England, I returned letters
of thanks to the Prior of St. Augustine, and in
particular to my old partner, with very suitable
presents. By the captain's advice, I was persuad-
ed to go by land to Calais, and there take passage
for England: when, as it happened, I got a young
English gentleman, a merchant's son at Lisbou, to
accompany me, together with two English and
two Portuguese gentlemen; so that, with a Portu-
guese servant, an English sailor, and my man Fri-
day, there were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and
came to Madrid; when the summer decaying, we
hastened to Navarre, where we were informed
that there was scarcely any passing, by reason of
the prodigious quantity of snow; so that we were
THE LIFE OF
obliged to abide near twenty days at Pampeluna,
and at last to take a guide to conduct us safe,
towards Thoulouse. And now twelve other gen-
tlemen joining with us, together with their ser-
vants, we had a very jolly company.—Away our
guide led us by the frightful mountains, and
through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we tra-
velled along, ushered us into the prospect of the
fruitful and charming provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, Our guide was encountered
by three wolves and a bear, who set upon him
and his horse, and wounded him in three places:
upon which, my man riding up to his assistance,
shot one of them dead, on which the others ran
into the woods. But the pleasantest adventure
was, to see my man attack the bear. This crea-
ture, if let alone, will never meddle with you, and
this my man Friday very well knew, and so begging
leave of me in broken English, he told us, "He
would make good laugh/' "Why, you silly fool,"
said I, "he'll eat you up at a mouthful." "Eatee
me up!" replied he, "me eatee him, and make
much good laugh." Upon which, pulling off his
boots, he claps on his pumps, and running after
the monstrous beast, he called out that he wanted
to speak with him; and then throwing stones on
purpose to incense him, the beast turns about in
a fury, and with prodigious strides, shuffles after
him. But though he could not keep pace with
Friday, who made up to us, as it were for help,
yet being angry, "You dog," said I, "immediate-
ly take horse, and let us shoot the creature."
 
Friday making the Bear to dance.
273
But he cried, "Dear master, no shoot, me make
you much laugh." And so he turned about, mak-
ing signs to follow, while the bear ran after him,
till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a
minute, leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor
did the bear make any difficulty of it, but, notwith-
standing his bulk, ascended like a cat. You must
think I was not a little amazed at the folly of my
man, not perceiving any thing to occasion our
laughter, till we rode up nearer, and beheld the
beast mounted on the oak, on the beginning of
the branch to which Friday clung at the further
end, where the bear durst not come. Hereupon
Friday cried out, <e Now, master, me make much
laugh, me make de bear dance." Upon which he
fell a shaking the bough, which made the creature
look behind him to see how he could "retreat.
Then, as if the bear had understood his stammer-
ing English, "Why you not come further, Mr.
Bear?" said he. "Pray, Mr. Bear, come fur-
ther:" and then indeed we all burst into laughter,
especially when we perceived Friday drop like a
squirrel upon the ground, leaving the beast to
make the best of his way down the tree. And
now thinking it the most convenient to kill him,
Friday cried out, " O dear master, no shoot; me
shoot by and by:" when taking up the gun, "Me
not shoot yet," said he, "me make once more
much laugh." And accordingly he was as good
i\s his word, for the creature descending back-
wards from the tree very leisurely, before he couid
lay one foot on the ground, Friday shot him
through the ear stone-dead, and looking to see
if we were pleased, burst out into a hearty laugh,
saying, "So we Mil bear in my country, not with
THE LIFE OF
gun, but much long arrow." Thus ended our
diversion, to our satisfaction, especially in a place
where the terrible howlings struck us with conti-
nual terror. But the snows now growing very
deep, particularly on the mountains, the ravenous
creatures were obliged to seek for sustenance in
the villages, where coming by surprise on the
country people, they* killed several of them, be-
sides a great number of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more danger-
ous place to pass by; and if there were any more
wolves in the country, there we should find them.
This was a small plain, encompassed with woods,
to get through a long lane, to the village where we
were to lodge. When we entered the wood the
sun was within half an hour of setting; and a
little after it was set, we came into the plain,
which was not above two furlongs over, and then
we saw five great wolves cross the road, without
taking notice of us, and so swift as though they
were pursuing after their prey. Hereupon our
guide, believing there were more coming, desired
us to be upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes
were very circumspect, till about a league further
we saw a dead horse, and near a dozen of wolves
devouring its carcase. My man Friday fain would
have fired at them, but 1 would not permit him:
nor had we gone half a league over the plain, till
we heard dreadful howlings in a wood on our left,
when we saw an hundred come up against us, as
though they had been an experienced army. This
obliged us to form ourselves in the best manner:
and then I ordered that every other man should
fire; that those who did not might be ready for
a second volley, should they advance upon us;
275
and then every man make use of his pistols. But
there was no necessity for this: for the enemy be-
ing terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire; four
of them were shot dead, and several others being
wounded, went bleeding away, as we could very
plainly discover by the snow. And now remem-
bering what had been often told me, that such
was the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike ter-
ror even into the fiercest creatures, I ordered all
our companions to halloo as loud as possible.
And in this notion I was not altogether mistaken:
for they immediately turned about upon the first
halloo, and began to retire; upon which, ordering
a second volley in their rear, they galloped into
the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pie-
ces again, and then made all the haste we could
on our way: but we had not rode far before we
were obliged to put ourselves in a posture of de-
fence as before, being alarmed with a very dread-
ful noise in the same wood on our left hand, the
same way as we were to pass, only that it was at
some distance from us. By this time the dark-
some clouds began to spread over the elements,
and the night growing very dusky, made it so
much the more to our disadvantage: but the noise
still increasing, we were fully assured that it was
the howling and yelling of those ravenous crea-
tures; when presently three troops of wolves, on
our front, appeared to our sight, as though a
great number of them had a design to surround
us, and devour us in spite of fate. But as they
did not fall upon us immediately, we proceeded
on our journey in the swiftest manner the roads
would permit our horses, which was only a large
THE LIFE OF
trot. It was in this manner we travelled, till such
time as we discovered another wood, and had the
prospect of its entrance, through which we were
to pass at the furthest side of the plain. But
surely none can express the terror we were in,
when approaching the lane, we perceived a con-
fused number of the fiercest wolves standing, and
as it were guarding its entrance. Nor were we
long in this amazement, before another occasion
of horror presented itself: for suddenly we heard
the report of a gun at another opening into the
wood; and looking that way, out ran a horse,
bridled and saddled, flyiug with the greatest swift-
ness, and no less than sixteen or seventeen wolves
pursuing him, in order to devour the poor creature;
and unquestionably they did so after they had run
him down, not being able to hold out that swiftness
with which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcases of two
men, and another horse, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun which we
had heard, for the'piece lay by him; but alas!
most of the upper part of his body and his head
were entombed in the bowels of these ravenous
creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or re-
treat, we could not tell; but it was not long before
the wolves themselves made us come to a resolu-
tion: for such numbers surrounded us, every one
of whom expected their prey, that were our bodies
to be divided among them there would not be half
a mouthful a-piece. But happy, very happy, it
was for us, that but a little way from the entrance,
277
there lay some very large limber trees, which I sup-
posed had been cut down and laid there for sale,
among which I drew my little troop, placing our-
selves in a line behind one long tree, which served
us for a breast-work; when desiring them to alight,
we stood in a triangle, or three fronts, inclosing
our horses in the centre, the only place where we
could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a more furious charge
than what the wolves made upon us in this place;
and the sight of the horses, which was the princi-
pal thing they aimed at, provoked their hunger,
and added to their natural fierceness. They came
on us with a most dreadful noise, that made the
woods ring again, and beginning to mount our
pieces of timber, I ordered every other man to fire
as before directed: and indeed so well did they
take their aim, that they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but still we were obliged
to keep a continual firing, by reason they came on
like devils, pushing one another with the greatest
fury. But our second volley something abated
their courage; when stopping a little, we hoped
they would have made the best of their way: how-
ever it did not prove so, for others made a new
attempt upon us; and though in four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laming twice
as many, yet they came on several times succes-
sively, as though they valued not their lives for the
sake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too sud-
denly: and therefore I called my other servant,
and giving him a horn of powder, bade him lay a
large train, quite along the timber, which he did,
while Friday was charging my fusee aud his own
A A
THE LIFE OF
^ with the greatest dexterity. By this time the
wolves coming up the timber, I set fire to the
train, by snapping a discharged pistol close on the
powder. This so scorched and terrified them, that
some fell down, and others jumped in among us
with the strength and terror of the flame; but
these we immediately dispatched, when all the
rest, frightened with the light, which the dark-
some night caused to appear more dreadful, began
at length to retire: upon which, ordering our last
pistols to be fired at once, giving at the same time
a great shout, the wolves were obliged to have re-
course to their swiftness, and turned tail; and then
we sallied out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them
in pieces with our swords, which obliged them to
howl lamentably, to the terror of their fellow de-
vourers, who resigned to us the field as victorious
conquerors. And indeed, I question whether A-
lexander King of Macedon, in any of his conquests,
had more occasion for triumph than we had: for
he was but attacked by numerous armies of sol-
diers; whereas our little army was obliged to com-
bat a legion of devils, as it were, worse than can-
nibals, who, had they slain us, would have sacrifi-
ced us at the same moment, to satisfy their vora-
cious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts,
having killed threescore of them, and saved our lives
from their fury. We still had a league further to go,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
most unwelcome howlings, expecting every mo-
ment another attack. But, in an hour s time, we
arrived safe at the town where we were to lodge;
and here we found the place strictly guarded, and
all in terrible confusion, as well they might, for
279
fear of the bears and wolves breaking into the vil-
lage, in order to prey upon their cattle and people.
The next morning we were obliged to take a new
guide, by reason the other fell very bad of his
wounds which he had received as before mentioned.
After we had reached Thoulouse, we came into a
warm, pleasant, and fruitful country, not infested
with wolves, nor any sort of ravenous creatures,*
and when we told our story there, they blamed our
guide much, for conducting us through the forest
at the foot of the mountains, and in such a severe
season too, when the snow obliged them to seek
for shelter in the woods,
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity have given a
more ample account than my pen is able to set
forth. From Thoulouse I travelled to Paris, from
thence to Calais, where I took shipping, and landed
at Dover the 14 th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon dis-
covered my new-found estate, and all the bills
of exchange I had brought were currently paid.
The good ancient widow, my only privy counsellor,
thought no pains or care too great to procure my
advantage; nor had I ever occasion to blame her
fidelity, which drew from me an ample reward. I
was for leaving my effects in her hands, intending
to set out for Lisbon, and so to the Brasils; but as
in the desolate island I had some doubts about the
Romish religion, so I knew there was but little en-
couragement to settle there, unless I would apos-
tatise from the orthodox faith, or live in continual
fear of the inquisition. Upon this account I re-
solved to sell my plantation, and for that intent I
THE LIFE OF
wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who returned me
an answer to my great satisfaction, which was:
that he could readily sell it there; however, if I
thought it convenient to give him liberty to offer
it in my name to the two merchants, the survivors
of my trustees, residing at the Brasils, who conse-
quently understood its intrinsic value, having lived
just upon the spot, and who I was sensible were
very rich, and therefore might be the more willing
to purchase it; he did not in the least doubt, but
I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of eight more
of it than I should do if I disposed of it in any
other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I
sent him an order to offer it unto them, which he
accordingly did: so that about eight months after,
the ship being in that time returned, he gave me a
satisfactory account that they not only willingly
accepted the offer, but that they had also remitted
thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of their own at Lisbon, in order to pay
for the purchase.
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument of
sale, according to form, which they had sent from
Lisbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores per annum,
which I had allowed him during life, as also fifty
to his son during life, according to my faithful
promise, which the plantation was to make good
as rent charge.
Any one would think, that in this state of com-
plicated good fortune, I was past running any more
281
hazards; and so indeed I had been, if other cir-
cumstances had not concurred: but I was inured
to a wandering life, had no family, nor many rela-
tions, nor, however rich, had I contracted many
acquaintances; and though I had sold my estate
in the Brasils, yet I could not keep the country
out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon
the wing again; especially I could not resist the
strong inclination I had to see my island, and to
know if the poor Spaniards were in being there, and
how the rogues I had left there had used them.
My (rue friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for al-
most seven years she prevented my running a-
broad; during which time, I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my care:
the eldest having something of his own, 1 bred up
as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some
addition to his estate after my decease; the other
I put out to a captain of a ship, and after five
years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and
sent him to sea.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for first of all I married, and that not either to
my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had three
children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good
success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed and en-
gaged me to go in his ship, as a private trader, to
the East Indies: this was in the year-1694. In
this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole
story of their lives, and of the villains I had left
A A 3
THE LIFE OF
there: how, at first they insulted the poor Spa-
niards, how they afterwards agreed, disagreed,
united, separated, and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence with them, how they
were subjected to the Spaniards, and how honest-
ly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful acci-
dents, as my own part, particularly also as to their
battles with the Carribeans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself, and how five of
them made an attempt upon the main land, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners,
by which, at my coming, I found about twenty
young children on the island. Here I stayed a-
bout twenty days, left them supplies of all neces-
sary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot,
clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought
from England with me, viz. a carpenter and a
sniith. Besides this, I shared the island into parts
with them, reserved to myself the property of the
whole, but gave them such parts respectively as
they agreed on; and having settled all things with
them, and engaged them not to leave the place, I
left them there. From thence I touched at the
Brasils, from whence I sent a bark, which I
bought there, with more people to the island, and
in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven wo-
men, being such as I found proper for service, or
for wives to such as would take them. As to the
Englishmen, I promised to send them some wo-
men from England, with a good cargo of necessa-
ries, if they would apply themselves to planting,
which I afterwards performed. And the fellows
proved very honest and diligent after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for
them. I sent them also from the Brasils five
cows, three of them being big with caif, some
sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again,
were considerably increased. When they had all
these thipgs, three hundred Carribees came and
invaded them, and ruined their plantations: they
fought with that number twice, and were at first
defeated, and three of them killed; but at last
a storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they
famished or destroyed almost all the rest, and
renewed and recovered the possession of their
plantation, and still lived upon the island.
 
DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER,
Frontispiece to face the Title,
Robinson Crusoe shipwrecked .p. 50
Robinson Crusoe returning upon his Raft
from the Wreck 57
Robinson Crusoe bringing Howe the Goat
which he had shot f ... 68
Robinson Crusoe rescuing Friday from his
Enemies V 212
» Friday making the Bear to dance 273
BOOKS
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
F. HOULSTON & SON,
And sold at their Warehouse, 65, Paternoster-Row, London.
BY MRS. SHERWOOD.
STORIES explanatory of the CHURCH CATE-
CHISM. 12mo. Tenth Edition. Price 5s. in extra
boards.
The GOVERNESS; or, the LITTLE FEMALE
ACADEMY. 12mo. Third Edition. Price fis. in
extra boards.
The INFANT'S PROGRESS. 12mo. Second Edi-
tion. Price 5s. in extra boards.
The INDIAN PILGRIM. 12mo. Fourth Edition.
Price 4s. in extra boards.
A GENERAL OUTLINE of PROFANE HIS.
TORY, from the Beginning of the World to the present
Period. Second Edition. Price 3s. 6d. half-bound.
The History of LITTLE HENRY and his BEARER.
Nineteenth Edition. Price 2s. 6d. in extra boards.
HISTOIRE du PETIT HENRI. Price 2s. Gd. in
extra boards.
The History of THEOPHILUS and SOPHIA,
Sixth Edition. Price 2s.
An INTRODUCTION to GEOGRAPHY. Intended
for Children. Second Edition. Price 2s, half-bound.
The LITTLE WOODMAN and his DOG CjESAR.
Seventh Edition. Price Is. 6d. in extra boards.
The History of SUSAN GRAY. A new and im-
proved Edition. Price Is. 6d.
Wellington, Salop;
l
Books printed and sold by F. Houhton mid Son.
The History of LUCY CLARE. Twelfth Edition.
Price Is. 6d.
Memoirs of SERGEANT DALE, his DAUGHTER,
and the ORPHAN MARY. Fourteenth Edition.
Price Is.
The AYAH and LADY. An Indian Story. Seventh
Edition. Price Is.
The RE-CAPTURED NEGRO. Third Edition.
Price Is.
An INTRODUCTION to ASTRONOMY. Intend-
ed for Children. Fifth Edition. Price 6d.
A DRIVE in the COACH through the STREETS
of LONDON. Seventh Edition. Price 6d.
The ORPHAN BOY. Eighth Edition. Price 6d.
A PRIMER. Second Edition. Price 6d.
The INFIRMARY. Eighth Edition. Price 4d.
The ERRAND-BOY. Seventh Edition. Price 4d.
The TWO SISTERS. Fifth Edition. Price 4 d.
The MAY-BEE. Fourth Edition. Price 4d.
The History of LITTLE GEORGE and his PENNY.
Tenth Edition. Price 2d.
The History of EMILY and her BROTHERS.
Tenth Edition. Price 2d.
The ROSE. Sixth Edition. Price 2d.
The BUSY BEE. Sixth Edition. Price 2d.
The WISHING-CAP. Fifth Edition. Price 2d,
EASY QUESTIONS for a Little Child. Fourth
Edition. Price 2d.
LITTLE ROBERT and the OWL. Third Edition.
Price 2d.
The LITTLE SUNDAY-SCHOOL CHILD'S RE*
WARD. Ninth Edition. Price Id.
LITTLE ARTHUR. Third Edition. Price Id.
2
By the Author of "Margaret Whyte? fyc.
MEMOIRS of EMMA and her NURSE. Third
Edition. Price 2s. 6d. in extra boards.
The WORKHOUSE. A new Edition, revised and
corrected by the Anthor. Price Is. 6d.
The History of MARTEN and his SCHOLARS.
Fourth Edition. Price Is. 6d.
The History of FIDELITY and PROFESSION.
Fifth Edition. Price Is.
The FAITHFUL LITTLE GIRL. Price Is.
The History of MARGARET WHYTE. A new
and improved Edition. Price 6d.
The RAVEN and the DOVE. Ninth Edition.
Price 6d.
The HOLIDAY QUEEN. Sixth Edition. Price 6d.
The CASKETS. Sixth Edition. Price Gd.
The LOST CHILD. Sixth Edition. Price 6d.
The MOTHER'S GRAVE. Sixth Edition. Price 6d.
The POLITE LITTLE CHILDREN. Sixth Edi-
tion. Price 6d.
DIALOGUES for the Entertainment and Instruction
of Youth. Part the First. Sixth Edition. Price 3d.
DITTO, Part the Second. Fourth Edition. Price 4d.
The TWO LAMBS. Seventeenth Edition. Price 3d.
The THREE FLOWER-POTS. Fourth Edition.
Price 2d.
The NOSEGAY of HONEYSUCKLES. Ninth Edi-
tion. Price Id.
The LITTLE DOG FLORA, with her Silver Bell.
Ninth Edition. Price Id.
The STRAWBERRY-GATHERERS. Fifth Edi-
tion. Price Id.
3
The SERMON on the MOUNT, with a Course of
QUESTIONS and ANSWERS, explaining that valu-
able PORTION of SCRIPTURE, and intended chiefly
for the INSTRUCTION of YOUNG PERSONS. By
the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Sixth Edition. Price Is.
in extra boards.
An inferior Edition of DITTO, stitched in purple
paper. Price 6d.
The SHORT and SIMPLE ANNALS of a POOR
CHILD. By the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Sixth Edi-
tion. Price 6d.
An inferior Edition of DITTO. Price 3d.
GRACE WITHOUT PARTIALITY, and SIN
WITHOUT EXCUSE. By the Rev. 3, Eyton, A. M.
Price Is.
A SERMON preached on Occasion of the NAVAL
VICTORY off TRAFALGAR, in the Parish Church
of WELLINGTON, SALOP, November 10th, 1805,
by the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Price Is.
TWO SERMONS preached in tlie Parish Churches
of SAINT PHILIP and SAINT MARTIN, BIR-
MINGHAM, at the Request of the Governors of the
BLUE-COAT CHARITY-SCHOOL in that Town,
on Sunday, April 26th, 1807, by the Rev. J. Eyton,
A. M. Price 2s.
A SERMON preached in the Church of SAINT
CHAD, SHREWSBURY, on Sunday, November 11 th,
1810, by the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Price Is. ,
The SUBSTANCE of an ADDRESS delivered at
Hie GRAVE of ANN HUGHES, June 5th, 1812, by
the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Price Is.
A NARRATIVE of the LIFE of JOHN BANKS.
By the Rev. J. Eyton, A. M. Price Is.
MEMOIRS of MRS. STOWELL. By the Rev.
Hugh Stoweli, Rector of Ballaugh, Isle of Man. 12mo.
Price Ss. 6d. in extra boards.
lloidstons, Printers.
 
