





‘ 1'
..-
~ ‘ ‘ ‘ W . ~‘ 4 r. r“ 1 _w .iiJ-gé; v
n - "- - '1 ' w ?- ~~. ‘ V .‘ . _ .. .. . . -. 4 ‘ '1 '?“
~"*“ " "55 ~5’7Wm*g'gli'éf4g‘?#°4§-=~?ma ‘ .-_~5;}??%??T€5.JF»M$?;~‘5M<££W£Y:FY:Q 12:12. . ' >- >1"
- w .‘ '_ "" H w j-- ~- -- q . . ~ _, ‘ 1 - ‘
; V “
ff
9%
“I;
. m1

*2-
an
'33}
all
.-.I-.\‘ “six-:1.- :.- . <
‘0'


-"




Lx '--.
.‘ H ‘
4' .1
yyvmma'aarmww
“lg




: ;w'%.=;.
, '\ pf “21*
‘9 ~ f
“=3
\ V~v“§_77":' r“ -__r I:


9. Tu
4‘
' '. ~ "H x " 175‘2‘1v'wvm.’ "6-.1- '7 . -- . ~~ . 4 1 ‘ -
-~$%=%MM%’MMQ%T~ @3932“: ’ Wm wm‘rx m var-x 1:. ra%m‘>-VAZ’IQTQ :“



ti? 1 .1 275%
E
w"
L J
. (n
f ,‘l
. w
1
.. -~ -_.°-u- __L


3.7
a. v I
Wl-WLWMFw‘5‘45F“¥\
. wmamw
~A
‘ .


'-
'.


v—‘__ “
..




\‘


‘
-:.


.C'
>
_. I» .
.-
~




r
A
a
4 \
a nu;-
.i K
'-

1
‘ m. _'
t‘ - ‘
-&
huqa‘L...’ wt "gag
r'-'>
, Q.
~ 1‘}; -
>\_1 ;P_“¢'_ ,arr


7.};
-
~a


"F.
a;
w' a
—\
- "
P
04‘
"‘ ‘-
-\
. r“
I.
"1:.
..


'1»
v
4,“
“va.
p“
O.
A
. ’-
\".
' n
,1?
_:u




v.‘ -{~", t 331 " \7
~ ‘4 4 ‘ —— '
‘ ‘ 4 ~_‘4\ -;‘"U’V A |
r» ‘53.\chz‘.,.-Qf-,s'7;h ‘ nd) 1
. M swwbwm Kmx'i- “ékfiii: 'F-"A
I
~
A"
\.
t
.M l
V; )


. 55?? '\ .ja/l'. ,. ' i
> 3245'; '1‘ * 'st
' "5»; “459‘ 1“-=,n '-
7 a "5 . '1' ' ‘ L D ‘ \
'A'éaéé. , .. K ‘5“ "’ _ is
' ' ' v.1,“
. ‘1-¥'-m.1m. T '"1’4'"
_ " a '1, Mia.“ "1-35‘ - 3,-1 {'li‘hn '
11s




; {,1
‘ ' I 7- r
-/’//// 1"
//}21'// ’/ ‘
)1 // " I
REQUEST IotMICHI'GAN




ijfe and xiventurrs
OF
ROBINSON.CRUSOE.




4’ ar' W‘r ' VJ ‘ ‘
w m m “(at w . 5 _ -» .
'~ -v_ -< 'w ‘ r' I ‘ R a I v m _
..;.q‘ 1“: € ~_ , w. "5% in 1 f C 1 ‘* * v” A , p
I". ‘ . l 4 1 f. ‘1 T. ~~ i i ‘
_ ‘ ' I A: i M ‘ ‘- ~ ‘
C — ¢ ' .- . . ~ '~ ~ '
. ' - ~t - V
_ _ ' v x : ¢
. I I ‘
~ ' L ~ ‘ . y ‘ .
, . A 7 1 ¢ . l ‘ ‘ ' r ‘
I. f ' ‘ . ~ '_
, . ‘ ‘ ' ‘ I . Y
4 \ .- ‘ -
/ Y ‘ l . I
. v ‘ I
\ ( . '
i Q l I ' \ I
I . ‘ 1 ‘
~ ‘ I w W
I I ‘
. I ‘ ‘ I I
I l J .
~ 4
J
K
I l. I.
' \
/ _ .




J i r ‘ I
‘ I I ‘. ~
I ~
. ‘ I
' i
_ ' u ’ —
¢ ‘ _ \ I I ‘
~ 1 . A
\ v I ‘ I ~
4
.
\ ' i I
1
_ . i w
r.
I a
\ ' -
v \ . \
v v
- ,
\ \/‘
\ ‘ ,
' .
. 'l '
\ \
I ,
~ \P
. .
‘ i _‘ u“?
I .
\ l ‘
. i _ ‘ ‘- ‘ _ I'M
_ .. . - . ~
I ~ ~
' v ‘
’ I
D I ~ \
I, I
r .
r . v
i
. ‘. ‘ H ‘ 9‘ ~
1 . '
I ‘ ‘
a i t I,
§
\ ~ I i
. ‘ ~
I I I _
I I ' \
' \
I ‘ ~
, .
~ -
. ' l 4 v I
_ -
. ' i d
I
‘ i .
~ -
0 \ I l _
I ‘ f 1
~ ‘ . .U’;
4 y I‘
u. - 9 ~ ‘ I'.
. Q J ‘14» 4‘ u ’ an
n _ c ~n ' - .





‘11???ng $56: '
V NQQNO'T
r0
rm ‘
‘ 1', mi _
“(In _ m
<
,






LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
OF Y'ORK, MARINER
BY
DANIEL DE FOE
mm; umrmus EIIIustratiuns


iLnnnun: -
MARCUS WARD & 'co., 67, CHANDOS STREET
. AND ROYAL ULSTER WORKS, BELFAST
I876


YEA/allupriayo 1/0774“ it”:
' H Yu'eamri,
i 5dwyu":6’ks_
E (vzz'm‘iy
ant  gllusstuatinns.
____*+____.
“My Father gave me serious and excellent Counsel ”
A Ship Foundering at Sea; - ' - - -
“ He gave the most hideous Roar that ever I heard”
“ Upon these Signals they very kindly brought to” -
“ I resolved to hold fast by a Piece of the Rock "
First Cargo from the \Vreck - - - “ -
“The Kid followed me ”‘ - - -
“ I found a large Turtle” - ' - - -
“Immediately I kneeled down and gave God thanks ’ '
“ The Shore was covered with innumerable Turtles ”
“ I quickly taught him to know his own Name ”
“ It cost me three months to clear the inside ” -
“I could walk out in the hottest of the Weather ”
At Dinner with my Family '- - - - _
Seeing the Shore spread with Skulls
“ I saw them all take Boat and row away ” - -
“At length he came close to me ” - -
“Friday, shall We go to your Nation ? " - -
Friday discovers his Father - - -
“He knocked him down with the Stock of his Musket ’
The Mutineers defeated - - - -
“The Old Man ram and fetched me a Cordial " -
Friday and the Bear - _ - - - I



3
PAGE
24
40
-45
122
K
"i- L is! of Illinstralioizs. '
“\Ve found the Carcases of another Horse and two Men ” -
Takes to Farming ~ - ~ - - -
“They did nothing but ramble about the Island and catch '1‘
Making Prisoners . ~ - _., > ‘
“They dragged the Prisoners into the .Boat ”
“He red, and hit two of them directly ”
“ In‘this great Bee-hive lived the three Families”
“ We obserVed him-vvery earnest with her”
"‘ Here’s the Book I prayed for !” - ' v - -
Death of Friday - - . . i -
i “ Kneeling down, with their hands lifted up”
Shores of the Persian Gulf -_ - - -
' “I had the pleasure to see the ship sail without me ”
“ Well done, Jack!” - I
The Japanese Merchant - .- -
A Chinese Mandarin - -
Great Wall of China - - -
“ The Tartars came on” - . -
Burning Cham-Chi-Thaungu - - ‘ -


I
ortoises ’
Q
PAGE
268
279
307 i
320
332
344
359
389
406
416
434
438
443
458
473
480
487
495
504

Q vw .4 '_
il A/h *5 1&4


SKETCH OF THE AUTHOR.


AN IEL DE FOE—s0 he always wrote his name was
the son of James Foe, a butcher in St. Giles’, London.
He was born in 1663. His parents were N onconformists, and
to that religious Profession he adhered through life. In one of
his many pamphlets he complains of some who falsely accused
him of having said that the gallows or the gallies ought to be
the doom of those who frequented a conventicle—“ forgetting,”
as he says, “that in that case I must design to have my own
father and mother, my wife, six innocent children, and myself
put into the same condition]? ‘
Of his early education we know nothing. It certainly was
as good as butchers generally think it needful to give their
sons. At twelve years of age he was sent to an “academy”
kept by a dissenting minister named Morton, at N ewington
Green, and there he remained till he was sixteen; but his
works show no marks of what is called scholarship. His
English is of the homely, unrened sort,- such as was natural to
the class of people for whom or inwhose name he wrote : tted
for the subjects which occupied his pen, but far removed from
the elegance of his contemporaries, Dryden, Addison, and Pope.
At the age of twenty-two we nd De Foe in the West of
England, engaged in the mad attempt of the weak and wicked
Duke of Monmouth to dethrone his uncle, King James, II.
Having escaped the perils of the eld, and the severer perils of
the law as administered by Judge J effries, he returned to
London, where his obscurity protected him, and engaged in
trade as a h'osier. He was thus employed when the Revolution
of 1688 occurred; and in the next year, when King William
viii- Sketch of the Author.
and Queen Mary paid a visit of state to the city of London, he
appeared, richly accoutred and mounted on a gallant charger,
among the _ volunteer troopers who attended their Majesties
from Whitehall to the Mansion-house. An opponent (he was
throughout life pestered by opponents) asserts that he expected
to attract the King’s attention and gain some token of the
Royal favour; but no notice was taken of him. Perhaps King
William, as a professional soldier, was not greatly impressed
by the sight of a squadron of shopkeepers on horseback. De
Foe had to return to his counter and his stocking-frames. But
the trade did not prosper in his hands. He then tried the
business of wool merchant. Here he was still more unsuc-
cessful, and had to compound with his creditors. They were
merciful, and left him a small pittance to enable him to earn a
support for himself and family. He invested it in a brick-
making concern on the bank of the Thames, and lost it all.
He had now no resource but his pen ,' and never was pen
more busily plied. He sent out in rapid succession a great
number of pamphlets on a variety of subjects, many of which
are curious, and some contain the germ of enterprises which, in
after times and in other hands, have helped to em-ich and
benet the country. Among these are Proposals for Reform-
ing the Coinage 0f the Realm ; A Plan for Establishing Banks
in all the Counties of England ; A Proposal for a Commission
of Inquiry into Bankrupts’ Estates; A Plan for a Pension
Oiee for the Relief of the Poor ; and an Essay on Projects .-
a congenial topic, which he was well qualied to discuss.
At last the sun of Court favour seemed to shine on De Foe.
In 1695, perhaps in consequence of his writings on nancial
topics, he obtained the post of Accountant to the Commissioners
for collecting the duties on glass. But it was only a short and
tful gleam. In 1699 the tax was repealed, and with it his
ofce expired. Fortunately he was able to~ seize an oppor-
tunity of serving the monarch who now lled the throne. A
pamphleteer named Tutchin published, in wretched verse, a
scurrilous attack on King William and his Dutchmen, entitled,
The Foreigners ,' and De Foe dashed off a reply, entitled, The
True-born. Englishman. The tract had a prodigious sale, and
brought to the author considerable prot, as well as extended
fame. With manly indignation he denounces the Tories of
the day for their ingratitude to the hero who had delivered
themselves and the nation from thraldom; and exposes the
absurdity and inconsistency of the prejudice against foreigners
entertained by people ~whose own ancestors in most cases had
come from abroad—Saxons, Danes, and Normans. The open-
ing lines of this piece have been often quoted :— ,
“ Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
The Devil always builds a chapel there ;
And ’twill be found, upon examination
The latter has the largest congregation.
Other political tracts and essays on the controversies of the
time followed in rapid succession, but these were all on the
liberal side ; and after the death of King William, who was
the great bulwark of that party, De Foe was often brought into
trouble by his zeal in defence of opinions which no longer
found favour in high quarters. One of his most ob-
noxious publications was entitled, The Shortest Way with
the Dissenters. It is an, ironical performance, professing to
prove that, as it is impossible to confute the Dissenters by
reason and argument, the best way of dealing with them is to
exterminate them at once. This was voted by the House of
Commons to be a seditious libel; it was ordered to be burnt
by the common hangman, and a proclamation was issued, offer~
ing a reward for the apprehension of the author. .De Foe was
caught, tried, ned, and sentenced to stand in the pillory, then
to have his ears cut off, and to be imprisoned for seven years :
a sentence which shows no disinclination 0n the part' of the
judges to practise in earnest what he had suggested in irony as
the shortest, way with the Dissenters. By these proceedings
he was for the second time utterly ruined. He says that, in
one way or another, he lost by them upwards of £3500.
Every person of generous mind must abominate the ungenerous
taunt hurled by Pope at one who was, like himself, a votary of
literature, and, like him, exposed to legal penalties for the pro
fession of his principles, though not, like him, protected by
inuential patrons. He writes—
“ Earless on high stood unabashed De Foe,
_And Tutchin agrant from the scenes below.”
But “unabashed” was no tting epithet for this courageous
suerer. He gloried in his punishment, and in- the cause for
which it was inicted, and employed a portion of his time in
N ewgate in composing an Ode to the Pillory.
It was while imprisoned in Newgate that De Foe projected
The Review, a periodical which he began to publish as soon as
he got out of gaol. It discusses all manner of questions—
politics, foreign and domestic ; manners and morals ,: trade,
literature, and the fashions. For the rst year it came out
twice a-week, and for the remaining eight years of its existence
it appeared every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday; and, -
What would be almost incredible if it had not been stated by
_ De Foe himself at a time when deception was impossible, every
line of it proceeded from his own pen. Even in prison he was
not idle, for it was then that he composed and published his
account of the great storm of 1703, to which Addison alludes
in his poem of The Campaign. Nor must the friendly inter-
position of a statesman, Mr. Secretary Harley, to whom De Foe
was utterly opposed in politics, be forgotten. Knowing
I something of his history and character, Harley sent him a
message—scarcely needed, one would suppose—“to inquire what
he could do for him.” The answer was what might have been
expected—“Let me out. of gaol!” But Harley was not able
to get this accomplished at rst. Queen Anne could not forgive
an honest man who had written against the Church of Eng-
land ; but she took pity on his starving wife and children, and
permitted the Lord Treasurer Godolphin to send them a
considerable relief. After some time, that narrow but not
cruel heart relented still further, and she not only consented to
his liberation, but allowed Godolphin to advance as much,
money out of the Treasury as paid his ne. .
And now this brave man, at the age of forty-one, released
from prison, but without a penny in his pocket, and with a
wife and family to maintain, had to begin the world for the
fourth time. He had no means of supporting himself but by
his writings. He immediately commenced the publication of
The Review, which he had planned within the walls of N ew-
gate; and, laborious though the preparation of it must have
been, it did not exhaust his energy, for poems, squibs, and
pamphlets on public a‘airs proceeded from his fertile brain in
rapid succession. He made many enemies by his attacks on
. the measures and principles to which he was opposed. Several
times he was waylaid 5 but his assailants were always either
' foiled or beaten off, for he was a man of undaunted courage.
Once the magistrates of a western county laid a scheme to
arrest him as a vagabond, and send him on board the eet;
but he had warning of the plot, and gave them the slip.
During his absence from London, suits were commenced against
him for ctitious debts, in the hope that, as he knew nothing
of these actions, he would not appear to defend them, and
might be outlawed as an absconding debtor. Some of his
friends, however, happened to hear of the stratagem, and put in
bail for his appearance. But for their prompt interference, he
would infalliny have been ruined once more in due form of law.
By this time Lord Godolphin had weeded out the Tories
from his Ministry, and thought De Foe would be able, by his
inuence among the Scottish Presbyterians, to help him in his
negotiations for bringing about a union between England. and
Scotland. He was accordingly sent down to the latter country,
and acquitted himself with so much ability and energy that his
services were rewarded with a small pension. '
During the declining years of the health and reign of Queen
Anne, De Foe, in common with the bulk of the nation, began
to be very uneasy as to the safety of the Protestant succession,
under the inuence of the Tory Ministry with whom the Queen
had surrounded herself. As usual, his uneasiness found vent
in print; and, as usual, his publications brought him into dii-
culties. Two' of his pamphlets were entitled, What if the
Pretender should Come? and What if the Queen should Die?
These titles had the appearance of being intended to weaken
the chances of the House of Hanover; but the pamphlets
themselves were warm and vigorous defences of the Protestant
succession; and De Foe evidently stated the truth when he
maintained that the titles were mere “amusements, intended
to get the books into the hands of those who were in danger of
being deluded by the Jacobites.” But Harley and Bolingbroke,
who were warm in the interest of the Pretender, resolved to
prevent the circulation of tracts so damaging to their projects 3
and seeing that the substance of them was unassailable in law,
inasmuch as they advocated the measure embodied in the Act
of Settlement, they seized on the pretext afforded by their
titles—which at worst were only ambiguous—prosecuted the
l
Kii- ' Sketch of the A uthor.
author, and obtained a conviction, with a sentence of £800 ne
and three months’ imprisonment. He was thus consigned to his
old familiar quarters in N ewgate, and compelled to discontinue
The Review, which had been for nine years a source of safe and
increasing income. On the accession of the House of Hanover,
it might have been expected that so ardent an adherent of that
family would have received some post or appointment in recog-
nition of his services; but he received none. His “allowance,”
which had been withdrawn from the date of his recent
conviction, was never restored; and he was exposed to insults
and calumnies from the enemies who were no longer able to
persecute him under the forms of law. In reply to the scur-
rilous attacks, he prepared a defence of himself, entitled, An
Appeal to ~Hon0ur and Justice, though it be of his worst
Enemies; being a True Account of his Conduct in Public A fairs.
The sad detail of what h’e had done and how he had been
requited completely unnerved a constitution already enfeebled
by connement and disease, and before it was nished he was
struck with apoplexy. He recovered from the attack, but for
the remainder of his life his health was inrm. .
It was at this period that he undertook the most popular of
his writings, The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of
York, Mariner ; a narrative that has been the delight of every
schoolboy and the wonder of every mature reader for a century
and a-half, and will doubtless be so for many centuries to come.
What excites our admiration and astonishment is the air of
reality which the story everywhere breathes. The same quality
characterises all his tales of ction. His Narrative of the
‘ Plague of London, though written from fancy with the assist—
ance of a few hints gathered from tradition, being given in
‘the- person of an eye-witness, has been often taken for matter
of fact, and has even been quoted in histories and medical
books as a contemporaneous authority ; and his celebrated
narrative of the Apparition of Mrs. Veal, prexed to the second
and all subsequent editions of Drelineourt on Death, has the
same air of genuineness. The place is stated, being the city of
‘ Canterbury ,- the name of the lady to whom the deceased made
her appearance (Mrs. Bargrave) is stated ; the street in which
- she lived is specied ; the date is set forth, being the 8th day
of September, 1705 ; the hour of the day ; and the length
of the interview within a quarter of an hour. The names of
two ladies and several other parties who were able to authenti-
cate the particulars of the narrative are all set forth. Nothing
can be more like truth. There is not a word. of truth in it;
but so closely did it resemble truth that it was by many taken
for truth, and had the effect of selling not less than twelve large
editions of a book which, till this preface was prexed, had
proved utterly unsaleable. '
Many other amusing ctions proceeded from his prolic pen,
but the foregoing are the best known and the most frequently
- referred to. ‘
It is pleasing to know that this stormy and eventful life
terminated in a peaceful old age and a'tranquil death. He
appears not to have known the pressure of penury in his later
years; his friends were many and warmly attached; and he
seems to have forgiven the enemies at whose hands he had
suffered so often and so severely, for in his later writings-
there are no allusions to them or to the injuries they had in-
icted. He died on the 24th of April, 1731, at the advanced
age of seventy, and was buried in the cemetery of St. Giles’,
the parish in which he was born. ' .

As it may interest the readers of Robinson Crusoe, we give
a short account of Alexander Selkirk, whose adventures may
have given De Foe the rst suggestion of his work.
In the month of February, 1709, Capt. Woodro Rogers, of
whose voyage an account is given in the. work entitled
A Collection of Voyages (London, 1756, 12mo), touched,
With two vessels under his command, at Juan Fernandez, an
_ island in the Pacic Ocean, distant about 400 miles from the
coast of Chili. It had long been known as a favourite rendez-
vous of buccaneers, who resorted to it as a place of concealment
for themselves and the' plunder acquired in their piratical
expeditions, but at the time of Captain Rogers’ visit was
supposed to be uninhabited. However, he had not been long
upon the island when he was surprised by the strange appari-
tion of a man clothed in the skins of goats, who accosted him
in the English language, and informed him that he had resided
in that solitary spot for upwards of four years, without seeing
' the face of a human being; and who earnestly requested the
xiv. Skate/z of flu A uz‘kor.
. captain to afford him a passage home to his native land. He
said—and the information turned out to be correct—that his
name was Alexander Selkirk ; that he was a native of Largo,
in Fifeshire; born in the year 1676, and bred to the sea.
Being of an adventurous spirit, he had joined in one of those
piratical enterprises in which so many English and French
freebooters were engaged, at a time when it was a maxim with
the seamen of both nations that there was “no peace with
Spaniards beyond the line.” He quarrelled with the buc-
_ caneering captain under whom he sailed, and was by him set
on shore on that uninhabited island 5 but this worthy, whose
name was Straddling, was humane enough to furnish him with
a gun, some powder and ball, a kettle, an axe, and a knife,
and to leave him in possession of his nautical instruments and
some books. This took place in the month of September,
1704. As long as his powder and ball lasted, he was able to
procure provisions in abundance by shooting birds, of which
there were great numbers on the island, and goats, which were
also very numerous—the progeny of a stock which had been
left there by the buccaneers in former times. -When his
ammunition failed, he captured as many goats as suiced for
his maintenance, in traps which he was skilful enough to con-
struct for the purpose, or by running them down by sheer
swiftness of foot ; and on their esh, and that of the shell-sh
and crustacea which he found . among the rocks on the shore,
he subsisted till the time when he was discovered by Captain
Rogers. It is stated that when he rst gave this account to
Captain Rogers and his companions, some of the latter
expressed a doubt of his being able to outrun animals so
nimble as goats proverbially are; but Selkirk, to prove the
truth of his words, started at once in pursuit of a ock which
happened to be in sight, and, after a short absence, returned
with one of the animals on his shoulders. The following is an
extract from the account of Captain Rogers" voyage in the
work already referred to :—- '
“ At rst the'terror and loneliness of the place sunk deeply
on'his [Selkirk’s] spirits ; but in time he became inured to it,
and got the better of his melancholy. He' had erected two
huts, one of which served him for a kitchen, the other for a
dining-room and bed-chamber ; they were made of pimento
wood, which supplied him also with re and candle, burning
very clear, and yielding ,a most refreshing, fragrant smell. The
roof was made of long grass, and his wainscoting of the skins of
goats, near ve hundred whereof he had killed during his
' residence here, and caught above ve hundred more, which he
marked on the ears and then set at liberty. When his am-
munition was exhausted, he caught them by running ; and so
practised was he in that eXercise that the swiftest goat on the
island was scarcely a match for him. On his being rst
abandoned here, he relished his food, which was boiled goat’s
esh and crawsh, but indifferently, for want of salt; how-
ever, in time he got the better of the nicety of his palate, and
was well enough pleased with the seasoning of the pimento
fruit. When his clothes were worn out, he made himself a
covering of goat-skin, joined together with thongs which he
had cut with his knife, and which he ran through holes made
with a nail instead of a needle; he had a piece of linen by
him, of which he had made a sort of shirt, and this was sewn
in the same manner. He had no shoes left in a month’s
time; his feet, having been so long bare, had now become
quite callous, and he was some time on board before he could
wear a shoe. The rats at rst plagued him very much,
' growing so bold as to gnaw his feet and clothes while he
slept; however, he soon taught them to keep at a greater dis-
tance, with the assistance of some cats that had been left
ashore by the ships. Of these and a few kids he had made
pets, and used to divert himself by teaching them a thousand
tricks.”
His life on the island had been very monotonous, varied
only by the use of the stratagems to which he was obliged,
from time to time, to have recourse in order to secure the
means of subsistence; yet it seems, on the whole, not to have
been devoid of its pleasing associations. His health appears
to have been invariably good. The few and simple wants of
nature he was enabled adequately to supply; and if he was
debarred from the pleasure of intercourse with his fellow-men,
he was, at the same time, exempt from the evil passions which
a state of society engenders, and which occasion so much of
human misery. One painful incident alone occurred during
his enforced solitude of four years and ve months. He had
pursued a goat among the steep precipices which form the
northern part of Juan Fernandez, and, while in the act of
seizing it, had fallen from the summit of a cliff. He was
stunned by the fall, and for a time lay insensible; on re-
covering his senses, he found the animal lying under him. It
is a noteworthy fact that, when Commodore 'Anson visited the
island in June, 17 41—thirty-two years after Selkirk had left
it—the rst goat that was shot by his crew was found to have
its ear marked in the way that Selkirk told Captain Rogers he
had marked those which he had caught and set at liberty.
It is a curious psychological fact that, in the 'few years
which-had elapsed between the time of his being set on shore
by Straddling and discovered by Rogers, Selkirk had in a con-
siderable degree lost familiarity with his native tongue, so
that it was some time before he recovered the power of express-
ing himself freely in conversation; but after an interval he
recovered the useful faculty as perfectly as he had possessed it
before his enforced solitude. From the long disuse of salted
provisions, he had acquired a distaste for that kind of food;
and he had lost entirely his relish for ardent spirits.
Captain Rogers, to whom We are indebted for most of these
particulars, took Selkirk on board; and, nding him a com-
petent navigator, he made him his mate. In that capacity he
returned to England in 1711. ‘A story has long been current,
but resting on no tangible authority, that he brought home
with him some papers giving an account of his mode of life in
Juan Fernandez ; and that these, having come into the
possession of Daniel De Foe, were by him wrought up into the
Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe; but the foregoing
narrative shows pretty plainly that, except the mere fact of a
‘ man having lived for some years on an island in ‘which there
was no other human inhabitant, De Foe could have borrowed
little or nothing from any papers of Selkirk’s. It does not
appear that the navigator and the novelist ever saw or spoke
to each other.
We have no account of Alexander Selkirk’s life after his
return to England. At that time he was thirty-ve years of
age, and the probability is that he did not long survive. ‘A
~ tablet erected on the island of Juan , Fernandez in 1868 states
that he died in 1723, aged forty-seven years.
-. ll ,
....“Iti ‘ _
» “Hiijiiii -
m I! a w


ROBINSON CRUSOE.

was born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations were
named Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from
whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corruption of words in England, we are now called—nay, we
call ourselves, and write our name—Crusoe 3 and so my
companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle nearDunkirk against the Spaniards. What
became of my second brother I never knew, any more than my
father and mother did know what was become of me.
B




2 ' Roéz'mon C rusoe,
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,
_ my head began to be lled very early with rambling thoughts. ‘
My father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent
share of learning, as far as house-education and a country free-
school generally go, and designed me for the law ; but I would
he satised with nothing but going to sea 3 and my inclination
to this led'me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands
of my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of
my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be some-
thing fatal in that propensity of nature, tending directly to the
life of misery which was to befal me. .
‘ My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
ned by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon
this suhjcct: he asked me what reasons, more than a mere
wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father’s house and
my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect ofraising my fortunes by application and industry,
with a lite of ease and pleasure. He told me it was for men of
desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes
on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of a
nature out of the common road; and these things were all
, either too far above me, or too far below me: that mine was
the middle state, or what might be called the upper station of
low life, which he had found, by long experience, was the best
state in the world, the most suited to human happiness, not
.‘cnpused to the miseries and hardships, the labour and suffer-
ings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part
of manhind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of '
this state hy this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have frequently
lamented the miserable consequence of being born to great
' things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the
two extremes, between the mean and the great ; that the wise
man gape his testimony to this, as the just standard of true
tchlcity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He hade nie observe it, and I should always nd, that the
as
an“?
His Father’s W z'se Counsel. 3
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part
of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest
disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the
.higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they were not subjected
to so many distempers, and uneasinesses, either of body or mind,
as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and extravagances
on one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean
or insufficient diet on the other hand, bring distempers upon
themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living ;
that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty
were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions,
and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
- middle station of life; that this way men went silently and
smoothly through the world, and comfortably out of it, not
embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of the head, not
sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, nor harassed with per-
plexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the
body of rest ;, not enraged with the passion of envy, or
secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but, in easy
circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly
tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that
they are happy, and learning by every day’sv experience to
know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate manner, not to play 'the young man, nor to precipitate
myself into miseries which nature, and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against ; that I was under no
necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well for me,
and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life which
he had been just recommending to me ; and that if I was not
very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate or
fault that must hinder it ; and that he should have nothing to
ansWer for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me
against measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a
word, that as he would do very kind things for me if I would
stay and settle at home as he. directed, so he would not have
so much hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encourage—
ment to go away; and, to close all, he told me I had my elder
4 Robinson Crusoe:
brother for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest
persuasions to keep him from going into the Low Country
wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompting him
to run into the army, where he was killed 3 and though he said
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to
say to me, that if I did take this foolish step God would not
bless me, and I should have leisure hereafter to reect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might be none to
assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly
prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to be
so himself; I say I observed the tears run down his face very
plentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was
killed ; and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent,
and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke off the '
discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could say no
more to me. ‘
I was sincerely a‘ected with this discourse—as indeed who
could be otherwise 'l—and I resolved not to think of going abroad
any more, but to settle at home according to my father’s desire.
But alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in short, to prevent
any of my father’s further importunities, in a few weeks after,
I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did not
act so hastily neither as my rst heat of resolution prompted,
but I took my mother at a time when I thought her a'little
more pleasant than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should
never settle to anything with resolution enough to go through
with it, and my father had better give me his consent than
force me to go without it ; that I was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an
attorney; that I was sure if I did I should never serve out my
time, but should certainly run away from my master before
my time .was out, and go to sea ; and if she would speak to my
father to let me go' but one voyage abroad, if I came home again,
and did not like it, I would go no more ; and I would promise,
by a double diligence, to recover that time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion. She told me she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such subject; that he knew too well what was my interest _
His First _V0yage. 5
to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt; and that
she wondered how I could think of any such thing after the
discourse I had had with my father, and such kind and tender
expressions as she knew my father had used ‘to me ; and that,
in short, if I would ruin myself there was no help for me ; but
I might depend I should never have their consent to it; that,
for her part, she would not have so much hand in my destruc-
tion; and I should never have it to say that my mother was
willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to name it to my father, yet, as
I heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her,
with a sigh, “That boy might be happy if he would stay at 4
home, but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable
wretch that ever was born. I can give no consent to it.”
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though, in the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulated
with my father and mother about their being so positively
determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually, and
without any purpose of making an elopement at that time ; but,
I say, being there, and one of my companions being about to go
by sea to London in his father’s ship, and prompting me to go
with them, with the common allurement of seafaring men, viz.,
that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I'consulted
neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it 3 but leaving them to hear of it as they might,
without asking God’s blessing or my father’s, without any con-
sideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour,
God knows, 0n the 1st of September, 165-1, I went on board a
ship bound for London. Never any young adventurer’s mis-
fortunes, I believe, began sooner or continued longer than mine.
The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind
began to blow and the waves to rise in a most frightful-manner ;
and, as I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terried in mind. I began now seriously
to reect upon what I had done, and how justly I was over-
taken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my
father’s house. and abandoning my duty. All the good counsel
of my parents; my father’s tears and my mother’s entreaties,
came now fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which was
not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been
since, reproached me'with the contempt of advice, and the
breach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like
what I have seen many times since; no, nor like what I
saw a few days after; but it was enough to affect me then,
who was but a young sailor, and had never known any-
thing of the matter. I expected every wave would have
swallowed us up, and that every time the ship fell down,
as I thought, in the trough 0r hollow of the sea, we should
never rise more. In this agony of mind, I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare my
life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry
land again, I would go directly home to my father, and never
set it into a ship again while I lived; that I would take his
advice, and never run myself into such miseries as these any
more. Now I' saw plainly the goodness of his observations
about the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably
he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I '
would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the
storm lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next day
the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to be a
little inured to it. However, I was very grave for all that
day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
ne evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought,
the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was
so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and
so pleasant in so little a time after. And now, lest my good
resolutions should continue, my companion, who had enticed
me away, comes to me: “ Well, Bob,” says he, clapping me
Drowns Good Resolutions. 7
on the shoulder, “how do you do after it'l I warrant you
were frightened, wer’n’t you, last night, when it blew but a
capful of wind 'l”—“A capful d’you call it?” said I; “"twas
a terrible storm.”—“A storm, you fool you,” replies he; “do
you call that a storm? Why, it was nothing at all. Give us but
a good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a
squall of wind as that. But you’re but a fresh-Water sailor,
30b. Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we’ll forget all
that. D’ye see what charming weather ’tis now?” To make
short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all sailors;
the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in
that one night’s wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all
my reections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for
the future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its smooth-
ness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that
storm, so, the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and
apprehensions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten,
and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot
the vows and promises that I made in my distress. I found,
indeed, some intervals of reection, and the serious thoughts-
did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes ; but I
shook them off, and roused myself from them as it were from
a distemper, and applying myself to drinking and company
soon mastered the return of those ts—for so I called them;
and I had, in ve or six days, got as complete a victory over
my conscience as any young fellow' that resolved not to be
troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another trial
for it still ; and Providence, as in such cases generally it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse; for if I would
not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one
as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of. p
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads ; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm,
we hadmade but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-'
tinuing contrary—via, at south-west—for seven or eight days,
during which time a great many ships from Newcastle came
into the same roads, as the common harbour where the ships
might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but should have
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and,
after we had lain four or ve days, blew very hard. However,
the roads being reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea ;
\ but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind increased, and
We had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and make
everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as
possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our
ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought
once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two
anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the
business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of
his cabin by me, I could'hear him softly to himself say, several
times, “Lord, be merciful to us ! we shall be all lost j, we shall
be all undone !” and the like. During these rst hurries I-
was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage,
and cannot describe my temper : I could ill re-assume the rst
penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself against. I thought the bitterness of death
had been past, and that this would be nothing like the rst ;
but when the master himself came by me, as Isaid just now,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frightened. I
got up out of my cabin, and leoked out ; but such a dismal
sight I never saw—the sea ran mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes ; when I could look about
I could see nothing but distress round us ; two ships that rode
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being
deeply laden; and our men cried out that a ship which rode
about a mile ahead of us' was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads to
sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing.
The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in
the sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close
A Terrible Storm. 9
by us, running away with only their sprit-sail out before the
wind. . .
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master
of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast, which he was
very unwilling to do ; but the boatswain protesting to him,
that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and
when they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut that away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such
a fright before at but a little. But if I can eXpress at this
distance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in
tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former con-
victions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions
I had wickedly taken at rst, than I was at death itself ; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition that I can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet; the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and
wallowed in the sea, ,so that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect that I did not know What they meant by founder till
I inquired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw—-
what is not often seen—the master, the boatswain, and some
others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expect-
ing every moment when the ship would go to the bottom. In
the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down to see cried out we had
sprung a leak; another said there was four feet water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that word
my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards
upon the side of my bed, where I sat, into the cabin. How-
ever, the men roused me, and told me that I, that was able
to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another;
at which I stirred up and went to the pump and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing some light
colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to
slip, and run away to sea, and would come near us, ordered
to re a gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing
what that meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had
broken, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I
was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a
time when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot,
let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while
before I came to myself.
We worked on ,' but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though. the storm
began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could
swim till we might run into any port, so the master continued
ring guns for help ; and a light ship, who had rid it out just
ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near .us; but it was impossible
for 'us 'to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship’s
I side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem
with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great length, which
they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and we
hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat,
to think of reaching to their own ship ; so all agreed to let her
drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we
could; and our master promised them, that if’ the boat was
staved upon shore he would make it good to their master. So,
partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away to the
northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far as Winterton
Ness. .
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
I our ship till we 'saw her sink, and then I understood, for the
rst time, what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.
I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the
seamen told me she was sinking; for from the moment that
they rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said to
go in, my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with
fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what
was yet before me.
While we were in this condition—the men yet labouring at

Gets safety to Land. , 11.
the oar to bring the boat near the shore—we could see (when,
our boat mounting the waves, we were able ‘to see the shore)
a great many people running along the shore, to assist us when
' we should come near; but we made but slow way towards the
shore; nor were we able to reach the shore, till, being past the
lighthouse at \Vinterton, the shore falls off to the westward
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not Without much
' difculty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot
to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us suicient to carry us
either to London or back to 'Hull, as we thought t.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
have gone home, I had been happy ; and my father, as in our
blessed Saviour’s parable, \had even killed the fatted calf for
me ; for, hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any
‘ assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist ; and though I had several times loud calls
from my reason, and my more composed judgment, to go home,
yet I had no power to do it. I I know-not what to call this,
nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree, that hurries
us on to be the instruments of our own destruction, even though
it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open.
Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery _
attending, and which it was impossible for me to escape, could
have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and per-
suasions of my most retired thoughts, and against two such
visible instructions as I had met with in my rst attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who
was the master’s son, was now less forward than I. The rst
time he spoke to me after we were 'at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were separated in the town
to several quarters ; I say, the rst time he saw me, it appeared
his tone was altered ; and looking very melancholy, and shaking
his head, he asked me how I did, and telling his father who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order
to go farther abroad. His father, turning to me with a very
grave and concerned tone, “ Young man,” says he, “ you ought
never to go to sea any more ; you ought to take this for a plain
and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man.”
“ Why, sir,” said I, “will you go to sea no more '1” “That is
another case,” said he; “it is my calling, and therefore my
duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what
a taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you
persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on your account, like '
Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,” continues he, “ what
are you? and on what account did you go to sea 2” Upon that
I told him some of my story; at the end of which he burst
out into a strange kind of passion. “ What had I done,” says
he, “ that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship?
I would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for
a thousand pounds.” This indeed was, as I said, an excursion
of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss,
and was farther than he could have authority to go. However,
he afterwards talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go
back to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin,
telling me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me.
“And, young man," said he, “depend upon it, if you do not
go back, wherever you go you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father’s words are
fullled upon you.”
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I
saw him no more; which way he went I know not. As for
me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land ; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles
with myself—what course of life I should take, and whether I
should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and should
be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
' everybody else ; from whence I have since often observed how
incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is,
especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them
" in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet
are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for which
’ Another - V oyage. ’ 13
they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the
returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncer-
tain what measures to take, and what course of life 'to lead.
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been in
wore off ; and as that abated, the little motion I had in my
desires to return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the'thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.‘
That evil inuence which carried me rst away from my
father’s house, that hurried me into the wild and indigested
notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed those conceits
so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good advice,
and to the entreaties and even the commands of my father:
I say the same inuence, whatever it was, presented the most
unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on
board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors
vulgarly called it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all. these adventures I
did not ship myself as a sailor; when, though I might indeed
have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the same time
I should have learnt the duty and ofce of a foremast, man,
and in time might have qualied myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate
to choose for the worse, so I did here ; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always go '
on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither had
any business in the ship, nor learned to do any. I
It was my lot rst of all to fall into pretty good company in
London, which does not always happen to such loose and mis-
guided young fellows as I then was; the devil generally not
omitting to lay some snare for them very early ; but it was not
so with me. I rst fell acquainted with the master of a ship
who had been on the coast of Guinea; and who, having had
very good success there, was resolved to go again; and who,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all dis-
agreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the
world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I should be
at no expense ; I should be his messmate and his companion;
and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the

advantage of it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I
might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer ; and entering into a strict friendship
I with this Captain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I
went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with
me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the
captain, I increased very considerably ; for I carried about
£40 in such toys and tries as the captain directed me to buy.
This £40 I had mustered together by the assistance of some
of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe,
got my father; or at least my mother, to contribute so much as
that to my rst adventure. ’
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in
all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty
of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a competent
knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship’s course, take an
observation, and, in short, to understand some things that were
needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight
to instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this
voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
home ve pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure,
which yielded me in London, at my return, almost £300 ; and
this lled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; par-
ticularly that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
calenture by the excessive heat of the climate, our principal
trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fteen
degrees north even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to
go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now
got the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage
that ever man made; for though I did not carry quite £100
of my new-gained wealth, so that I had £200 left, which I
had lodged with my friend’s widow, who was very just to me,
yet I fell into terrible misfortunes. The rst was this—our
ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
Captured by a- Pirate. 15
between those islands and the African shore, was surprised in
the grey of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who
gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded
also as much canvas as 'our yards would spread or our masts
carry to get clear; but nding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared
to ght, our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen.
About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing ,
to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made
him sheer off again, after returning our re, and pouring in
also his small shot from near two hundred men which he had
on board. However, we had not a man touched, all our men
keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon
our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging.
We plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and
such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to
cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being
disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at rst I ap-
prehended ; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor’s
court, as the rest of our men Were, but was kept by the captain
of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave, being
young and nimble, and t for his business. At this surprising
change of my circumstances—from a merchant to a miserable
slave—I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back
upon my father’s prophetic discourse to me, that I should be
miserable and have none to relieve me, which I thought was
now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not be worse ;
that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was
undone without redemption ; but, alas! this was but a taste of
the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story. - .
As my new patron, or .master, had taken me home to his'
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him when
1
he went to sea again, believing that it would some time or
other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man-of-
war ; and that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope
of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he
left me on shore to look after his little garden, and to do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when he
came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it; nothing. presented to make the supposition
of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to that
would embark with me—no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotsman there but myself ; so that for two years,
though I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never
had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my
liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home longer
than usual without tting out his ship, which, as I heard, was
for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a-week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship’s
pinnace, and go out into the road a-shing ; and, as he always
took me and a young Maresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching
sh, insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth—the Maresco, as they
called him—to catch a dish of sh for him.
It happened one time, that going a-shing in a calm morning,
a fog rose so thick that, though we were not half-a~league from
the shore, we lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither
or which way, we laboured all day arfd all the next night ; and
when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea
instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least
two leagues from the shore. However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labour and some danger; for the
wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but parti-
cularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future ; and having lying by him
Hopes of Deliverance. I 17
the long-boat of our English ship that he had taken, he resolved
he would not go a-shing any more without a compass and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who
also was an English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin,
in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer and haul home the main-
shect, and room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder—of-mutton
sail ; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which lay
very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a
slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to
put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought t to drink,
and his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat avshing ; and as I
was most dexterous to catch sh for him, he never went with-
out me. It happened that he had appointed to go outin this
boat, either for pleasure or for sh, with two or three Moors of
some distinction in that place, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the boat over-
night a larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had
ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship, for that they designed some
sport of fowling as well as shing. ’
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning with the boat washed clean, her ancient and
pendants out, and everything to accommodate his guests ; when
by-and-by my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put off going, from some business that fell out, and
ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with
the boat and catch them some sh, for that his friends were to
sup at his house ; and commanded that as soon as I got some
sh I should bring it home to his house. All which I prepared
to do. .
This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted, into
my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship
at my command; and my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for shing business, but for a voyage;
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer—for anywhere to get out of that place was
my desire. -
C
My rst contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this
Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board ;‘ for I'
told him we must not presumeto eat of our patron’s bread.
He said that was true ; so he brought alarge basket of rusk or
biscuit, and three jars of fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron’s case of bottles stood, which it was evident,
by the make, were taken out of some English prize, and I con-
_ veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if
they had been there before for our master. I conveyed also a
great lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above
half a hundredweight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use
to us afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Another
trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into
also. His name was Ismael, which they call Muley, or
Moely; so I called to-him—“Moely,” said I, “our patron’s
guns areon board the boat; can you not get a little powder
and shot? It may be we may kill some alcamies ‘(a fowl like
our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner’s
stores in the ship.” “Yes,” says he, “I’ll bring some ;” and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held a
pound and a-half of powder, or rather more ; and another with
shot, that had ve or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat. At the same time, I had found some powder
of my master’s in the great cabin, with which I lled one of
the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring
what was in it into another; and thus furnished With every~'
thing needful, we sailed out of the port to sh. The castle,
which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no notice of us ; and we were not above a mile out of the
port before we hauled in our sail, and’set us down to sh.
The wind blew from the N .N .E., which was contrary to my
desire, for had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have
V made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of
Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I
would be gone from the horrid place where I was, and leave
the rest to fate.
After we had shed some time and caught nothing—for when
I had sh ‘on my hook I would not pull them up, that he
might not see them—I said to the Moor, “This will not do;
Free again! ' ' 19
our master-will not be thus served ; we must stand farther off.”
He, thinking no harm, agreed, and being in the head of the
boat set the sails; and as I had the helm, I run the boat out
near a league farther, and then brought her to as if'I wOuld
sh ; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where
the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something behind
him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his twist, and
tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, _
for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken
in; told me he would go all the world over with me. He swam
so strong after the boat, that he would have reached me very
quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-pieces, I pre-
sented it at him, and told him I had' done him no hurt, and if
he would be quiet I would do him none. “But,” said I, “you '
swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm ;
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no
harm; but if you come near the boat I’ll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty.” So he
turned himself about, and swam 'for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer. ‘ -
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me,
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust
him. When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they
called Xury, and said to him, “Xury, if you will be faithful
to me, I’ll make you a great man; but if you will not stroke
your face to be true to me”—-that is, swear by Mahomet and
his father’s beard—“ I must throw you into the sea too.” The
boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innOcently, that I could-
not distrust him ; and he swore to be faithful to me, and go all
over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone- towards the Straits’
mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do) ; for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward to the truly barbarian coast,
where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with
their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once go
on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind? - e _
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
, course a little towards the cast, that I might keep in with the
*r , %hore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth,
quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at '
three o’clock in the afternoon, when I rst made the land, I
could not be less than one hundred and fty miles south of
Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, or -
indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the
wind continuing fair till I had sailed in that manner ve days;
and then the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also
that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would
now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and came
to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what,
nonwhere; neither what latitude, what country, what nation,
or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see any people ;
the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in' the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country ; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what
kinds, that the“ poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged
of me not to go on shore’till day. f‘ Well, Xury,” said I,
“then I won’t; but it may be we may see men by day who
‘will be as bad to us as those lions.” “Then we give them the
shoot gun,” says Xury, laughing ; “ make them run way.” Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However,
' I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram
(out of our patron’s case of bottles) to cheer him up. After
all, Xury’s advice was good, and I took it; we dropped our
little anchor, and lay still all night. I say still, for we slept
none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures
(we knew not what to call them) of many sorts come down to
the sea-shore and- run into the water, wallowing and washing
themselves for! the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they
Danger from W z'la’ Beasts. 21
made such hideous howlings and yellings, that I never indeed
heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too ; but
we were both more frightened when we heard one of these mighty .
creatures come swimming towards our boat ; we could not see
him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous, '
huge, and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might
be so for aught I know ; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh.
the anchor and row away. “ N 0,” says I, “Xury ; we can slip
our cable, with the buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot
follow us far.” I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the
creature (whatever it was) within two oars’ length, which
something surprised me; however, I immediately stepped to
the cabin-door, and taking up my gun, red at him; upon
which he immediately turned about, and swam towards the
shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and hideous
cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge of
the shore as higher within the country, upon the noise or re-
port of the gun, a thing I have some reason to believe those
creatures had never heard before. This , convinced me that
there was no going on shore for us in the night on that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another question
too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages,
had been as bad as to have fallen into the hands of the lions
and tigers ; at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger
of it. ‘
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go onshore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat ;
when or where to get it was the point. Xury said, if I would
let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would nd if there
was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he
would go? why I should not go, and 'he stay in the boat?
The boy answered with so much affection as made me love
him ever after. Says he, “If wild mans come, they eat me,
you go way.”—“Well, Xury,” said I, “we will both go, and
if the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither
of us.” .So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a
dram out of our patron’s case of bottles which I mentioned
before; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we
a.
thought was proper, and so waded on shore, carrying nothing
but our arms, and two jars for water. ' '
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
- coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy
seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled to it,
and by-and-by I saw him come running towards me. I thought
he was pursued by some savage, or frightened with some wild
beast, and I ran forwards towards him to help him ; but when
came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare,
but different in colour, and longer legs. However, we were very
glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy that
poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water,
and seen no wild mans. ,
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains
for ,water, for a little higher up' the creek where we were we ’
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which owed but
a little way up ; so we lled our jars, and feasted on the hare
we had killed, and prepared to go on‘our way, having seen no
footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country. _
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd
Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we
were in, and did not exactly know, or at least remember,
what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them,
or when to stand off to sea towards them, otherwise I might
now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
Was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part
where the English traded, I should nd some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take
us 1n.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was
must be that country which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco’s dominions and the negroes, lies waste and unin-
‘habited, except by wild beasts ; the negroes having abandoned
it, and gone farther south, for fear of the Moors: and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barren-
ness ; and, indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious
numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures
A illonstrous Lz’on'. 23
which harbour there ; so that the Moors use it for their hunt-
ing only, where they go like an army, two or three thousand
men at a time ; and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together
upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring
of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice 'in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain of Teneriffe in the
Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of
reaching thither ; but having tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel; so I resolved to pursue my rst design, and keep along
the shore. A
' Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we
had left this place ; and once in particular, being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land,
which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to ow, we lay
still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that
we had best go farther off the shore; “for,” says he, “look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast
. asleep.” I looked where he pointed, and saw' a dreadful
monster indeed, for it was a terrible great hon that lay on the ~
side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that
hung as it were a little over him. “ Xury,” says I, “ you shall_
go on shore and kill him.” Xury looked frightened, and said,
“Me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ;” one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still, and
I took our biggest gun, which Was almOst musket bore, and
loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with two bullets ;
and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with ve
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could' with/the rst
piece to have shot him in the head, but he lay so with his
leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit his leg about
the knee, and broke the bone. He started up, growling at
rst, but nding his leg broken, fell down again; and then got
up upon three legs, and gave-the most hideous roar that ever I
heard. I was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the
head ; however, I took up the second piece immediately, and
though he began to move off, red again, and shot him in the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop and make but
little noise, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart,
and would have me let him go on shore. “Well, go,” said I ;
so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in
one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming


“HE GAVE THE MOST HIDEOUS ROAR THAT EVER I HEARD.
close to the creature,'put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and
shot him in the head again, which despatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon
a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury
said he would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. “For what, Xury?” said
I. “Me cut off his head,” said he. However, Xury could not
cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a monstrous great one. - ~
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin'yof him
might, one way or other, he of some value to and I;resolved
1,.» _


. Meets with Savages. 25
to take off his 'skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work
with him; but Xury was much the better workman at it, for
I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us both the
whole day, but at last we got off the hide, and spreading it on
the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days’
time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this, we made on to the southward continually for ten
or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which
began to abate very much, and going no oftener to the shore
than we were obliged for fresh water. My design in this was,
to make the River Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, anywhere
about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with
some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not what course
I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there among
the negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe,'which
sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East
Indies, made this cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I
put the whole of my fortune upon this single point,-either that
I must meet with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began' to see that the land was inhabited ; and
in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us ; we could also perceive they were
quite black, and naked. I was once inclined to have gone on
shore to them; but Xury Was my better counsellor, and said
to me, “ N 0 go, no go.” ‘ However, I hauled in nearer the
shore that I might talk to them, and I found they ran along
the shore by me a good way. I observed they had no weapons
in their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance, and that they could throw them a great
way with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with
them by signs as well as I could, and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this, I lowered
the top of my sail and lay by, and two of them ran up into
the country, and in less than half-an-hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dry esh and some corn, such
as is the produce of their country ; but we neither knew what
the one or the other was. However, we were 'willing to accept
1t, but how to come at it.was our next dispute, for I was' not
/
for venturing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of
us. But they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it~to
the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off
till we fetched it on board, and-then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends. But an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying
by. the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
towards the sea. Whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any
more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I
believe it was the latter; because, in the rst place, those
ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night ; and, in the
second place, we found the people terribly frightened, especially
the women. The man that had the lance or dart did not y
from them, but the rest did. However, as the two creatures
ran directly into the water, they did not offer to fall upon‘any
of the negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam
about, as if they had come for their diversion. At last one of
them began to come nearer our boat than at rst I expected ;
but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all
possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As
soon as he came fairly within my reach, I red, and shot him
directly in the head. Immediately he sank down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he
was struggling for life. And so indeed he was. He immediately
made to the shore; but between the wound, which Was his
mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water,-he died just before
he reached the shore.
It is impossible to-express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and re of .my gun ; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror. But when they saw the creature dead and sunk in the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and came, and began to search for the creature.
I found him by his blood staining the water; and by the
help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the ‘
negroes to haul, they dragged him \on shore, and found that it
was 'a most curious leopard, spotted,- and ne to. an admirable
Lays ’z'n Provisions. 1 ' 27
degree ; and the negroes held up their hands with admiration,
to think what it was I had killed him with. "
The other creature, frightened with the ash of re and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came; nOr could I, at that dis-
tance, know what it was. I found quickly the negrOes were for
eating the esh of this creature, so I was willing to have them
take it as a favour from me; which, when I made signs to
them that they might take him, they were very thankful fer.
Immediately they fell to work with him ; and though they had
no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they took off
his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could have
done with a knife. They offered me some of the esh, which
I declined, making as if I would give it them ; but made signs
for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provisions, which, though I did
not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning it
bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it lled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a. great vessel
made -of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun. This they
set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my
jars, and lled them all three. The women were as naked as
the men. ' -
I was now furnished with roots and corn—such as it was——
and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea,
at about the distance of four or ve leagues before me; and.
the sea'being very calm, I kept a large ofng tomake this
point. At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues '
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward:
then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was
the Cape de Verd, and those the islands called, from thence,
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance,
and I could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should
be taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one nor
the other. _ '
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a
sudden, the boy cried out, “Master, master, a ship with a sail!”
and the foolish boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking
it must needs be some of his
master’s ships sent to pursue us,
but I knew we were far enough
out of their reach. I umped out
of the cabin, and immediately
saw, not only the ship, but what
she was—namely, that it was
a Portuguese ship; and, as I
thought, was bound to the coast
of Guinea for negroes. But,
when I observed the course she
steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other
way, and did not design to come








“ urou THESE SIGNALS THEY VERY KINDLY BROUGHT To.”
any nearer to the shore: upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able
to come in their way, but that they would be gone by before I
could make any signal to them: but after I had crowded to
A Generous Portuguese. 29
the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw, "by the
help of their glasses, that it was some European oat, which, as
they supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this,
and as I had my patron’s ancient on, board, I made a waft of
it to them, for a signal of distress, and red a gun, both which
they saw ; .for they told me they saw the smoke, though they
did not hear the gun. Upon these signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me ; and about three hours’ time
I came up with them.
They asked me what- I was, in Portuguese and in Spanish
and in French, but I understood none of them ; but at last a
Scotch sailor who was on board called to me; and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee. Then they
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods. ' .
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which anyone will behave,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miser-
able and almost hopeless condition as I was in; and I im-
mediately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a
return for my deliverance; but he generously told me he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be
delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. “ For,”
says he, “ I have saved your life on no other terms than I
would be glad to be saved myself; and it may, one time or
other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. Be-
sides,” said he, “ when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a.
way from your own country, if I should take from you what
you have, you will be starved there, and then I only/take away
that life I have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese,” says he;
“ Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in charity, and
those things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your
passage'home again.” '
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen that none
should offer to touch anything “that I had: then he took
everything into his own possession, and [gave me back an I
exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even sc
much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for his ship’s use, and
asked me what I would have for it? I told him he had been
so generous to me in everything, that I could not offer to make
any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him ; upon which he
told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay me eighty
pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and when it came there, if any
one offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered
me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I
was loath to take : not that I was unwilling to let the captain ‘
have him, but I was very loath to Sell the poor boy’s liberty, ,
who had assisted me so faithftu in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be
just, and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let
the captain have him. '
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in
the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints’ Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered
from the most miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to
do next with myself I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me I can- never
enough remember. He would take nothing of me for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats. for the leopard’s skin, and
forty for the lion’s skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me;
and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me, such as the
case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of
bees’-wax-—for I had made candles of the rest. In a word, I
‘ made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my
cargo ; and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the
house of a good honest man like himself, who had an ingein0,.
as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house). I
lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that
means, with the manner of planting and making of sugar. And
seeing how well the planters lived, and how they grew rich ‘
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I
would turn planter among them ; resolving, in the mean time,
A Planter in Brazil. 31
to nd out some way to get my money, which I had left in‘
London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of
letter of naturalisation, I purchased as much land that was
uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my
plantation and settlement, such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbour—a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents—whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food than anything else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began to come
into order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco,
and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come. But we both wanted help ; and now
I found, more than before, I had done wrong in parting with
my boy Xury. ’
But, alas! for me to do'wrong that never did right was no
great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on. I had got into
an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly con-
trary to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father’s house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of
low life, which my father advised me to before, and which, if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have stayed at home,
and never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done;
and I used often to say to myself, I could have done this as -
well in England, among my friends, as have gone ve thousand
miles off to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilderness,
and at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the '
world that had the least knowledge of me. /
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now and
then this neighbour—no work to be done, but by the labour
of my hands ; and I used to say I lived just like a man cast ,
away upon some desolate island that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should all men
reect, that when they compare their present conditions with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of their, former felicity by their
' experience: I say, how just has it been that the truly solitary
life I reected on, in an island of mere desolation, should be
my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued. I had in all
probability been exceeding prosperous and rich
I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on
the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship
that took me up at sea, went back—for the ship remained
there, in providing his lading, and preparing for his voyage,
nearly three months—when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere
advice :—“Seignor Inglese,” says he (for so he always called
me), “if you will give me letters, and a procuration in form to
me, with orders to the person who has your money in London,
to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct,
and in such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring
you the produce of them, God willing, at my return. But
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I
would have you give orders but for one hundred pounds
sterling, which you say is'half your stock, and let the hazard
be run for the rst ; so that if it come safe you may order the
rest the same way, and if it miscarry you may have the other
half to have recourse to for your supply.”
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that
I could not but be convinced it was the best course I could
take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain’s widow a full account of all
'my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with
the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour,
and what condition I was now in, with all other necessary
directions for my supply. And when this honest captain came
to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story to a merchant at London, who represented it effectually
.to her ; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but out
of her own pocket sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.
A Fortunate Investment. 33
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at- Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils ; among which, without my direction (for I was
too young in my business to think of them), he had taken care
to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I
was surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward the
captain had laid out the ve pounds, which my friend had
sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant, under bond for six years’ service, and would
not accept of any consideration except a little tobacco, which
I would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all ; but my goods being all English manu- '
facture, such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country,-I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage; so that I may say I had
more than four times the value of my rst cargo, and was now
innitely beyond my poor neighbour—I mean in the advance-
ment of my plantation ; for the rst thing I did I bought me
a negro slave, and a European servant also—I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means
of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went .on the
next year with great success in my plantation. I raised fty
great rolls of tobaccoon my own ground, more than I had dis-
posed of for necessaries among my neighbours ; and these fty
rolls, being each of above a hundredweight, were well cured and
laid by against a return of the eet from Lisbon; and now,
increasing in business and in wealth, my head began to be full
of projects and undertakings beyond my reach, such as are
indeed often the ruin of the best heads in business. Had I
continued in the station I was nowin, I had room for all the
happy things to have yet befallen me for which my father so
earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life, and of ‘which he
had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full .
of; but other things attended me, and I was still to be the
Wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly, to
increase my fault, and double the reections upon myself
D .
which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all
these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
herence to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad, and
pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the clearest views
of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those pros-
pects and those measures of life which Nature and Providence
concurred to present me with and to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now, but I must go and
leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man
in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate
desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of
human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be con-
~sistent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come, then, by the just degrees to the particulars of this
part of my story. You may suppose that having now lived
almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my discourses
among them, I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the
coast for tries—such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets,
bits of glass, and the like—not only gold dust, Guinea grains,
elephants’ teeth, &c., but negroes for the service of the Brazils
in great numbers. ,
They listened always very attentively to my discourses on
these heads, but especially to that part which related to the
buying of negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not
far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by
the assiento, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal,
and engrossed in the public stock, so that few negroes were
bought, and those excessively dear. . '
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and told
me they had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
Goes to capture Negroes. - 35
coursed with them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret proposal to me. - After enjoining me to secrecy, they
told me that they had a mind to t out a ship to go to Guinea;
that they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened
for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a trade that
could not be carried on, because they could not publicly sell the
negroes when they came home, so they desired to make but one
voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own plantations; and, in a word, the ques-
tion was whether I would go their supercargo in the ship to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea, and they
offered me that I should have my equal share of the negroes
Without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not had a settlement and a plantation
of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of coming to
be very considerable and with a good stock upon it; but Ior
me that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to
do but to go on as I had begun for three or four years more,
and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from England,
and who in that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds,
and that increasing too—for me to think of such a voyage was
the most preposterous thing that ever man in such circum-
stances could be guilty of. .
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more
resist the offer than I could restrain my rst rambling designs
when my father’s good counsel was lost upon me. In a word,
I told them I would go with all my heart if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so ; and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation
and effects in case of my death, making the captain of the ship
that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir, but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my
will—one-half of the produce being to himself, and the other
to be shipped to England. ‘ I
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects
and to keep up my plantation.- Had I used half as much -
prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have done,
I had certainly never gone away from so.prosperous an under-
taking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving circumstance
and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common
hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular
misfortunes to myself. ‘ "
But I washurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my
fancy rather than my. reason ; and, accOrdingly, the ship being
tted out and the cargo furnished, and all things done as by
agreement by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour, the 1st of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my father and mother at Hull, in
order to act the rebel to their authority and the fool to my
own interests. 4 '
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden;
carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods, except
, of such toys as were t for our trade with the negroes—such
as beads, bits of glass, shells, “and other tries, especially little
looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to _
the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over
for the African coast when we came about ten or twelve degrees
of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of course
in those days. We had very good-weather, only excessively hot,
all the way upon our own coast till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustino, from Whence, keeping further off at sea, we
'lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle'
Fernando (16 N oronha, holding our course north-east by north,
and leaving those isles on the east. Insthis course we passed
the line in about twelve days’ time, and were, by our .last'
observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern
latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite
out of our knowledge. It. began ' from the south-east, came
about to the north-west, and then settled into the north-east,
from whence it blew in such a terrible manner that for twelve
» days together we could do nothing but drive, and, scudding
away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of
the winds directed; and, during these twelve days, I need not

Ship strihes on‘a Sana’hanh. 37'
say thatl expected every day to be swallowed up, nor indeed
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
'of our men die of the calenture, and one man and the boy
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, theweather abati
ing a little, the master made an observation as well as he could,
and found that he was in about eleven degreesnorth latitude,
but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference
west from Cape St. Augustino, so that he found he was upon
the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, towards that of the river Orinoco, commonly
called the Great River, and began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the'coast of Brazil. _
I was positively against that; and, looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to till we came ,
within the circle of the Caribbean Islands, and therefore resolved
to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea to ‘
avoid the indraught of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might
easily perform, as we hoped, in about fteen days’ sail ;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast
of Africa without some assistance both to our ship and to our-
selves.
‘ With this design we changed our course, and steered away
north-west by west, in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined, for, being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen
minutes, a secOnd storm came upon us, which carried us away
with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of
the way of all human commerce that, had all our lives been
saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured
by savages than ever returning to our own cOuntry.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our
men, early in the morning, cried out “Land 1” and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world we were than the ship struck upon
a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that we expected we '
should all have perished immediately, and we were immediately
. ‘ 1 'J"-""'*?’;*\
driven into our close quarters to shelter us fr0m the very foam
and spray of the sea. .
It is not easy for anyone who has not been in the like con-
dition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such
circumstances. We knew nothing where we were, or upon
. what land it was we were driven—whether anlisland or the
main—Whether inhabited _or not inhabited. As the rage of
the wind was still great, though rather less than at rst, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes
without breaking into pieces, unless the wind by a kind of
miracle should turn immediately about. In a word, we sat
looking upon one another and expecting death every moment,
and every man, accordingly, preparing for another world, for
there was little or nothing more for us to do. in this. That
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we
had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did <
not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
N ow, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too \
fast for us to expect her gettmg off, we were in a dreadful con-
dition indeed, and had nothing to do but tothink of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just
before the storm, but she was rst staved by dashing against
the ship’s rudder, and in the next place she broke away, and
either sunk or was driven off to sea, so there was no hope
from her. We had another boat on board, but how to get
her off into the sea was a doubtful thing. However, there
was no time to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute, and Some told us she was actually broken
already.
In this distress the mate of’ our vessel laid hold of the boat,
and, with the help of the rest of the' men, got her slung over
the ship’s side, and, getting all into her, let go and committed
ourselves—being eleven in number—t0 God’s mercy and the
wild sea; for, though the storm was abated considerably, yet
the sea ran dreadfully high upon the shore, and might well be
called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
‘ And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we all saw
plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not live,
Was/zed on Shore. 3.9
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As’ to making sail,
we had none, nor, if we had, could ‘we have done anything
with it; so we worked at the car towards the land, though
with heavy hearts, like men going to execution, for we all
knew that when the boat came nearer the shore she would be
dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. How-
ever, we committed our souls to _God in the most earnest
manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well
as we could towards land. .
What the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether steep or '
shoal—we knew not. The only hope that could rationally give
us the least shadow of expectation was, if we might nd some
bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great chance
we might have run our boat in, ' or got under the lee of the
land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there was nothing
like this appeared ; but, as we made nearer and nearer the shore,
the land looked more frightful than the sea. _ ‘
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a-
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came
rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup-de-
grace. In a word, it took us with such a fury that it overset
the boat at once, and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us hardly time to say “ O God!” for we.
were all swallowed up in a moment. -
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt
when I sunk into the water; for, though 'I swam very well,
yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that a wave, having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back and left me upon the land, almost dry, but half dead with
the water I took in. I'had so much presence of mind as well
as breath left, that, seeing myself nearer the main land than I
expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on
towards the land as fast as I could before another wave should
return and take me up again; but I soon found it was impos-
sible to avoid it, for I saw the sea come after me as high as a
great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means
or strength to contend with. My business was to hold my '
breath and raise myself upon the water if I could, and so by
swimming to preserve my breathing and pilot myLself toWards
the shore if . possible ; my greatest concern now being that the
sea, asit' would carry me a great way towards the shore'when
it .came 'on,,might not-carry me back again with it' when it
gave 'back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty
or thirty feet deep in 'its own body, and I could feel myself
carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a
Very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to
swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so
to my immediate relief I found my head and hands shoot out
above the surface of the water; and though it was not two
seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was coVered again
with water a good while, but not so long but I held it out;
and nding the water had spent itself and begun to return, I
struck forward against the returniof the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to recover
breath, and till the water went from me, and then took to my
heels and ran with what strength I had further towards the
shore. But neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice more I
was lifted up by the waves and carried forward as before, the
. shore being very at. . - - ' I
The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me,
for the sea, having hurried me along as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against apiece of a rock, and that with such
force as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own
deliverance, for the blow, taking my side and breast, beat the
breath as it were quite out of my body, and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the water;
but I recovered a little before the- return of the waves, and
seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved to
hold fast by apiece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if
possible, tillthe wave went back. Now as the waves were not
so high as at rst, being nearer ‘land, I held my hold till the
waves abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
gs.
..
d
.n ¢
F
air
IQ ~_
"7. . . .
I. -__
. ..n v
.1. . ..
-- ' I,
at . ¢
....1
. v .\
if.
tr .
.H'
. .
I.
.n I‘ .It.
21
in


“1 RESOLVED TO HOLD FAST BY A PIECE OF THE ROCK.”
Saoedfronit/ie Sea. - "l I _. 41
next run I took I got to themain land, where, to my great ‘
comfort, I clambered-up the cliffs of the shore, \and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite\ out of the
reach of the water. ' i
I was now landed and safe on shore, and began-to look up
and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there
was, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope. i I believe
it is impossible to express 'to the life what the ecstasies and
transports of the soul are when it‘ is so saved, as I» may say,
out of the very grave ; and I do not wonder now at that custom
—viz., that when a malefactor, who has the halter about
his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a
reprieve brought to him ; I say I do not wonder that they bring
a surgeon with it, to let him bleed that very moment they tell
him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal'spirits
from the heart and overwhelm him. '
“' l" or sudden joys, like griefs, confound at rst.”
I walked about on the shore lifting up my hands, and my
whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of my
deliverance, making a thousand gestures and motions which I
cannot describe, reecting upon all my comrades that were
drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself ; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes ’
. that were not fellows. _ .
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and
froth of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far
off, and considered, “Lord! how was it possible I could get
on shore ’i” _ _'
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable partof
my condition, I began to look round me to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be done, and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful
- deliverance, for I was 'wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any-
thing either to eat or drink to comfort me, neither did I see
any prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger or
beingdevoured by wild beasts; and that which was particu-
larly aficting to me was; that I had no weapon, either to hunt
and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself
» \
against any other creature that might desire to kill me for
theirs. _ In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a
tobacco-pip , and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my
provision, nd this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that
for a whil I ran about like a madman. Night commg upon.
me, I beg n with a heavy heart to consider what would be my
lot if ther were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing-
at'night ey always come abroad for their prey.
All th remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was,
to get 11 into a thick bushy tree like a r, but thorny, which
grew ne r me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and con-
sider t next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
- no pro /pect of life. I walked about a furlong from theshore
to see if I could nd any fresh water to drink, which I did, to
my gr’at joy; and having drunk, and put a little tobacco in
,my ml nth to prevent'hunger, I went to the tree, and getting
up into it, endeavoured to place myself so that if I should sleep
I mi ht not fall ; and having cut me a short stick like a
trunc'heon for my defence, I took up my lodging, and having
been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com- ,
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition,
and found myself more refreshed 'with it than I think I ever
. was on such an occasion. - ‘ '
’ When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before.
But that which surprised me most was that the ship was
lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay by the
swelling of. the tide, and, was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I at rst mentioned, where I had been so bruised
, by the wave dashing me against it. This being within about
a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that at least I
might save some necessary things for my use. " ]
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the rst thing I found‘ was the boat,
which lay as the- wind and sea had tossed her up upon the
land, about two miles on my right'hand. I walked as far as I
could upon the shore to have got to her, but found a neck or
inlet of water between me and the boat, which was about half—
a-mile broad; so I came back for the present, being more intent

Swirns to the Wreoh.\ ’ 43
upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to nd something for .
my present subsistence. 4 ’ ' '
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a'mile
of the ship ; and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief,
for I saw evidently that if we had kept on board we 'had been
all safe—that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I
had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all
comfort and company as I now was. This forced tears to my
eyes again; but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if
possible, to get to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, forthe
weather was hot to extremity, and took the water. 'But when
I came to the ship, my difculty was still greater to know how
to get on board, for, as she lay aground and high out of the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I
swam round her twice, and the second time I spied a small
piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see at rst, hung
down by the forechains so low that with great difculty I got
hold of it, and by the help of that rope I got up into the fore.-
castle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so '
on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her
stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost to
the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and all
that was in that part was dry, for you may be sure my rst
work was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was
free. And rst, I found that all the ship’s provisions were dry
and untouched by the water, and§being very well disposed to_
eat, I went to the bread-room and lled my pockets with
biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to lose.‘ I also found some rum in the great cabin, of
. which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need '
enough of to spirit me for what was before me.' Now I wanted
nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me. .
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had, and this extremity roused my, application. We had
several spare yards, and. two or three large spars of wood, and
a spare topmast or two in the ship. I resolved to fall to work
with these, and ung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope that they;
. might not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship’s side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast
together at both ends as well as I could in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was
not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light ; so ‘
I went to work, and with the carpenter’s saw I cut a spare
topmast into three lengths, and added them to my raft with a
great deal of labour and pains. But hope of furnishing
myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I .
should have been able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable _
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I
was not long considering this. I rst laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I rst got three of the seamen’s chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft. The rst of these I lled with provisions—via,
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, ve pieces of dried goat’s
esh (which we lived much upon), and a little remainder of
European corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which we
brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed. There had
been some barley and wheat together ; but, to my great disap-
pointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled
it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial [waters ; and, in all,
about ve or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chest,_nor any
room for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide
began to ow, though very calm; and I had the mortication
to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on the
shore upon the sand, swim away. As for my breeches, which
were only linen, and open-knee’d, I swam on board in them
and my stockings. However, this set me on' rummaging for
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye
was more upon—as, rst, tools to work with on shore. And
it wasafter long searching that I found out the carpenter’s
\
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much
more valuable than a ship-loading of gold would have been at
that time. I got it down to my raft, whole as it was, without
losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it con-
tained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling-pieres in the great cabin, and two
pistols. These I secured rst, with some powder-horns and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where


:” __—'—_;;-'S~'-;i;"
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how
I should get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor
rudder,_and the least capful of wind would have overset all
my namgation.
I had three encouragements-érst, a smooth, calm sea,
second/y, the tide rising, and setting in to the shore; thirdly;
what 'little wind there was blew me towards the land. And
thus, having found two- or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and, besides the tools which were in the chest, two saws,
an axe, and a hammer, with this ‘cargo I put to sea. For a
mile or thereabouts my raft went.very well, only that I found
it drive a little distant from the place where I .had landed
before ; by which I perceived that there was some indraught .of
the water, and consequently I hoped to nd some creek or
river there, which I might make use of as a port to get to land
with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide
set into it; so I guided my r‘aft, as well as I could, to keep in
-the middle of the stream.
But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck,
which, if I had, I think verily would have broken my heart;
~ for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one
end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end,
it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards
'the end that was aoat, and so fallen into the water. I did
my _utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to keep
them-in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with all
my Strength; neither durs't I- stir from the posture I was in;
' but holding' up the chests with all my might, I. stood in that
manner near half-an-hour, in which time the rising, of the
water brought me a little more upon a level; and a little" after,
the water still rising, my raft oated again, and I thrust her
off with the oar I had into the channel, and then, driving up
higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river, '
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running
up. I looked on both sides for a proper 'place to get to shore, ‘
for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river; hop-
ing in time to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to
place myself as near the coast as I could. ' ' ~ I
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek,
to which, with great pain and difculty, I guided my raft,__and
at last got so near that, reaching ground withmy car, I could
thrust her directly in. But here I had like to have dipped all
my cargo into the sea again; for that shore lyi‘ngpretty steep——
that is to say, sloping—there was no place to land, but where
Surveying the Island. 47-
one end of my oat, if it ran on shore, would ‘ie so high, and
the other sink lower, as before, that it woul endanger my
cargo again. All that I could do was to wait "ill the tide was
at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar li] e an anchor, to
hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a at piece of ground,
which I expected the water would ow overl; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough—for my raft drew about a
foot of water—I thrust her on upon that atllpiece of ground,
’ and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken
oars into the ground—-one on one side, near Ione end, and one
on the other side, near the other end; and thus I lay till the
water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe on
shore. \
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was, I' yet know
not ; whether on the continent or an island—whether inhabited
or not inhabited—whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills,
which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I took out one of
the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of
poWder ; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the
top of that hill, where, after I had with great labour and dif-
culty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great afiction—viz,
that I was in an island environed on every side by the sea : no
land to be seen except some rocks, which lay a great way off;
and two small islands less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.-
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited except by wild beasts,
of whom, however, I saw none. Yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could
I tell what was t for food, and what not. At my coming
back I shot at a great bird, which I'saw sitting upon a tree on
the side of a great wood. I believe it was the rst gun that
had been' red there since the creation of the world. I had no sooner red, than from allvthe parts of the wood there arose an
innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one according to his usual note,
l

but not one of1 them of any kind that I knew. As for the
creature I kille I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour
and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. lIts esh was carrion, and t for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and
" - fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the
rest of that day. 1 But what to do with myself at night I knew
- ,not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down on
n
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour
me ; though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for
those fears. .
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of hut for that night’s lodging. As for food, I yet saw
not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or
three creatures like hares run out of the wood where I shot the
fowl. “
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things as
might come to land; and I resolved to make another voyage
on board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the rst
storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I
resolved to set all other things apart, till I had got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council—1
that is to say, in my thoughts—whether I should take back
the raft ; but this appeared impracticable. So I resolved to go
as before, when the tide was down ; and I did so, Only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of. pumps
on. my feet. _ ‘ '
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the rst, I neither made
this so unwieldy nor loaded it so hard, but yet I. brought
away several things very useful to me—as, rst, in the carPen-
ter’s stores I found two or three bags full 'of 'nails and spikes,
. a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone. ' All these I secured,
' togetherwith several things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket bullets,
’Secoiid Cargo from the Wrech.‘ \ ', 49'
seven- muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some small
quantity of powder more; a large bagful of small shot, and a
great roll of sheet-lead ; but this last was so heavy I could not
hoist it‘ up to get it over- the ship’s side. -
Besides these things, I took all the men’s clothes that I could
nd, and a spare fore-topsail, 'a hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all
' safe on shore, to my'very great comfort. , "
I was under some apprehension, during my absence from the
land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore ;
but when I came back I found no sign of any visitor, only
there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests,
. which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and
then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted '
with me. I presented my gun at her, but as she did not
understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she
offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit—
though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was
not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to
it, smelled at it, and ate it, and looked (as if pleased) for more ; -
but I thanked her, and could spare no more: so she marched
off. -
Having got my second cargo on shore—though I was obliged
to open the barrels of powder and bring them by parcels, for-
they were too 'heavy, being large casks—I went to work to
makeme a little tent with the sail and some poles which I
cut for that purpose : and into this tent I brought everything
that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun ; and I. piled
all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to
fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end
without; and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, lay-
ing my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by
me, I went to bed for the rst time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy ; for the night before I
had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day to fetch
all those things from the ship, and to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was
. E _ ~
laid up, I believe, for one man. But I was not satised still,
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I
ought to get everything out of her that I could ; so every day,
at low water; I Wenton board, and brought away something or
other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes
and rope twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet
gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all the sails rst and
last ; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as
much at a time as I could, for they were no more useful to be
sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was, that last of all,
after I had made ve or six such voyages as these, and thought
I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my
meddling with ; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead
of bread, three large runlets of rum or spirits, a box of sugar,
and a barrel of ne our. This was surprising to me, because
I had given over expecting any more provisions, except what
was spoiled by the‘ water. I soon emptied the hogshead of
' the bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of
the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe
on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage, and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and t to hand out, I
began with the cables, cutting the great cable into pieces, such
as I could move. I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with
all the iron-work I could get; and having cut down the sprit-
sail-yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything I could to make
a large raft, I loaded it with all these heavy goods, and came
away. But my good luck began now to leave me ; for this raft
was so unwieldy and so overladen, that after I was entered
the little cove where I had landed the rest of my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset,
and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself,
it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my
cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I
expected would have been of great use to me. However, when
the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and,
some of the iron, though with innite labour, for I had to dip
True Value of Money. 51'
for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very much.
After this, I went every day on board and brought away what
I Could get. -
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
times on board the ship, in which time I had brought away all
that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring;
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece. But pre-
paring the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind began
to rise. ~ However, at low water I went on board, and though
I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually that nothing
more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers-
in it, in- one of which I found two or three razors and one
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives
and forks ; in another I found about thirty-six pounds value in
money—some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, '
some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. “ Oh, drug i”
said I aloud, “what art thou good for? Thou art not worth
to me—no, not the taking off the ground; one of those knives
is worth all this heap. I have no 'manner of use for thee;
e’en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a creature
whose life is not worth saving.” However, upon second
thoughts I took it away, and wrapping all in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale
from the shore. It presently occurred to me that it was in
vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind o‘ shore, and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of ood'
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all.
Accordingly, I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the sands,
and even that with difculty enough, partly with the weight of
the things I had about me, and partly from the roughness of
the water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was
quite high water it blew a storm. ' ‘ ' V
But I had got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more
ship was to be seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered
‘ myself with this satisfactory reection, that I had lost no time,
nor' abated any diligence, to get everything out of her that
could be useful to me ; and that, indeed, there was little left
~ in her that I wasable to bring away, if I had had more time.
. I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her
. wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but
those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing my-
self against either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts,
if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the
method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make—
whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon
the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner
- and description of which it may not be improper to give an
account of. '
I soon found the place vI was in was not t for my settlement,
because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea, and I
believed it would not be wholesome, and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it ; so I resolved to nd
' a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me—rst, health and fresh water, I just
now mentioned; secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun;
thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts ; fou'rthly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship
in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of
which I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet. .
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on
the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come doWn
upon me from the top. On the side of the rock there was a
hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of
a csre ; but there was not really any cave or way into the rock
at . . . I
On the at of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent.- This plain was not above a himdred
yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green
before my door, and, at the end of it, descended irregularly
, .
Constmicts a_ For/tress. 53 4
every way down into the low ground by the sea-side. It was
on the north-north-West side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day till it came to a west'andv by south
sun or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent I drew a half-circle before the-
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter
from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter from its be—
ginning and ending. I,
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the grOund till they stood very rm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground above ve feet
and a-half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows did' not
stand above six inches from one another. ' . .-
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle,
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other
stakes in the inside leaning against them, about two feet and
a-half high, like a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong,
that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the
piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them
into the earth. I . .
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but
by a short ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when I was
in, I lifted over after me ; and' so I was completely fenced in
and fortied, as I thought, from all the world, and consequently
slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have
done, though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of
all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger
from
Into this fence or fortress, with innite labour, I carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which
you have the account above ,- and I made a large tent, which,
to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the year are
very violent there, I made double, one smaller tent Within, and
one larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a
large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a While in the bed which I had
brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very
good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.‘
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus enclosed all my
goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
>When I had done this I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
_ ' out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence, in the
nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about
a foot and a-half ; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house. i ‘ \' ‘
It ~cost~me much labour and many days befér'e all these
things were brought to perfection; and, therefore, I must go
' back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts.
At the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
the setting up my tent and making the cave, that a storm of
rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden ash of lightning
happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as is naturally
the effect of it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning
as I was with a thought which darted into my mind as swift
as the lightning itself—Oh, my powder! My very heart- sank
Within me when I thought that, at one blast, all my powder
might be destroyed; on whiCh not my defence .only, butf‘the
pi'oviding me food, as'I thought, entirely depended. I was
nothing near so anxious about my own danger, though, had the
powder took re, I should never have known who had hurt
me. >
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm
was over I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying,
and applied myself to make bags and'boxesto separate the ‘
powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, inhope
that whatever might come, it might not all take re at once,
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make
one part re another. I nished this work in about .a fort-
night, and I think my powder, which in all was about two
hundred and forty pounds weight, was divided into not’ less
than a hundred parcels. As to the, barrel that had been wet,
- I. did not apprehend any danger from that, so- I placed it in
my newlcave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks,so that
no. wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it. i
o-c
[fills a Goal. . - 55
In the interval of time while this was doing I went out once
at least every day with my gun, as well to diVert myself as to
i see if I could kill anything t for food, and, as near as I could,
to acquaint myself with what the island produced. .The rst.
time I went out I presently discovered that there were goats
in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me 3 but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me—viz., that they
were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the
most difcult thing in the world to come at them. But I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and
then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found
their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them—I 4
observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away, as in a terrible fright ; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me 3 from whence I concluded, that by
the position of their optics, their sight was so directed down-
ward, that they did not readily see objects that were above
them. So afterwards I took this method—I always climbed
the rocks rst, to get above them, and then had frequently a
fair mark. ‘ ' '
The rst shot I made among these creatures I killed a she-
goat, which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily ,' for when the 'old one fell, the kid
stood stock still by 'her till I came and took her up ; and not
only so, but when I carried the old one with me upon my
shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure: upon
which I laid down the dam, and 'took the kid in my arms and
, carried'it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame 5 but
it would not eat, so ‘I was forced to kill it, and ate it myself.
These two supplied me with esh a great while, for I ate spar-
ingly, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as much
as possibly I could. ' .
Having now xed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a re in, and fuel to
burnv; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full account
of in\its place; but I must now give some little account of ,
myself, and of my thoughts about living, which, it may well be
supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by
a violent storm, quite out of the course of our intended voyage,
and a great way—viz., some hundreds of leagues out of the
' ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to
- consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The
tears would run plentifully down my face when I made these
reections; and sometimes I would expostulate with myself
why Providence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable—so without help, aban--
doned, so entirely depressed that it could hardly be rational to
be thankful for such a life. M - -
But something always re urned swift upon me to check these
thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one day, walk-
ing with my gun in my hand by the sea-side, I was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when reason,
as it were, expostulated with me the other way, thris—“ Well,
you are in a desolate condition, it is true ; but, pray, remember,
where are the rest of you? Did not you come eleven of you
into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were not they saved,
and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be
here or there ?” And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are
\ to be considered with the good that is in them, and with what
worse attends them. ' '
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had
not happened (which was a hundred thousand to one) that the
ship oated from the place where she rst struck, and was
driven so near to the shore that I had tithe to get all those
things out of her. What would have been my case, if I had
been forced to have lived in .the condition in which I at rst
came on shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to
supply and procure them? “ Particularly,” said I aloud
(though to myself), “what should I have done without a gun,
Without ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or
to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner
of covering?” and that now I had all these to a sufcient
quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a
manner as to live without my gun when my ammunition was
Constructs a Calendar. ‘57
spent ;~ so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting without
any want as long as I lived: for I considered, from the be-
ginning, how I would provide for the accidents that might .
happen, and for the time that was to come, even not Only after
my ammunition should be spent, but even after my health and
strength should decay. ‘
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammuni-
tion being destroyed at one blast—I mean my powder being
blown up by lightning—and this made the thoughts of it so
surprising to me, when it lightened and thundered, as I ob-
served just now. ' ' '
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life—such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the
world, before—I shall take it from its beginning, and continue
it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September, _
when, in the manner as above said, I rst set foot upon this
horrid island, when the sun, being to us in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reckoned my-
self, by observation, to be in the latitude of nine degrees
twenty-two minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for~
want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the
Sabbath days; but to prevent this, I cut with my knife upon
a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a great cross,
I set up On the shore where I rst landed—viz, “I came on
shore here on the 30th of September, 1659.”
Upon the sides of this square post I out every day a notch
with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as
the rest, and every rst day of the month as long again as that
long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place, we are to observe that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship in the several voyages
which, as above mentioned, I made to it,- I got several things
of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I omitted
setting down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper;
several parcels in the captain’s, mate’s, gunner’s, and carpenter’s
keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical instru-
ments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all
which I huddled together, whether I might want them or 110.
Also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
_ cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or
three Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I
carefully secured. And I must not forget that we had in the
shi} a dog and two cats, of whose eminent history I may have
occasion to say something in its place: for I carried both the
cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship
of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore with my rst cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many
years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any
company that he could make up to me ; I only wanted to have
him talk to me, but that would not 'do. As I observed before,
I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and I shall show that while my ink lasted I kept
things very exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I
could not make any' ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that Iiwanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these,
ink was one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or
remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I
soon learned to want that without much diiculty.
This want of tools made every work I did go, on heavily;
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely nished my
little pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and
bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it
into the ground: for which purpose I got a heavy piece of
wood at rst, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
crows ; which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But
what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of any-
thing I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor
had I any other employment, if that had been over, at least
that I could foresee, except the ranging the- island to seek for
food, which I did more or less every day. - .
I now began to consider seriously my condition and the
\ Balance of Good and Evil. 59
circumstances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that
were to come after me (for I was likely to have but few heirs)
as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring over them and
aiicting my mind ; and as my reason began now to master my
despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could,
and to set the good against the evil, that I might have some—
thing to distinguish my case from worse ; and I stated it very .
impartially, like debtor and creditor—the comforts I enjoyed _
against the miseries I suffered, thus :—-
EVIL.
I am cast upon 'a horrible,
desolate island, void of all hope
of recovery.
I am singled out and separated
as it were from all the world to
be miserable.
I am divided from mankind
——a solitaire ; one banished from
human society.
I have not clothes to cover
me.
I am without any defence, or
means to resist any violence of
man or beast.
I have no soul to speak to or
relieVe me.
Goon.
But I am alive,. and not
drowned, as all my ship’s com-
pany was. I
But I am singled out too
from all the ship’s crew to be
spared from death ; and He that
miraculously saved me, from
death can deliver me from this
condition. .
But I am not starved and
perishing on a barren place af-
fording no sustenance.
But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear 'them.
But I am cast on an island
where I see no wild beasts to
hurt me, as I saw on the coast
of Africa; and what if I had
been shi wrecked there 'I
But God wonderfully sent the
ship in near enough to the shore
that I have got out so many
necessary things as will either
supply my wants or enable me
to supply myself, even as long a
we. .
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that there
was scarce any condition in the world so miserable but there
Was something negative or something positive 'to be thankful
for in it ; and let this stand as a direction, from the experience
of the most miserable Of all conditions in this world, that we
may always nd in it something to comfort ourselves from, and
'to set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side
of the account.
Having now brought my mind a-little to relish my condi-
tion, and given over looking out to sea to see if I could spy a
ship—I say, giving over these things, I beganto apply myself
to accommodate my way of living, and to make things as easy
to me as I could. _
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under'the side of a rock surrounded with a strong pale of posts
and cables ; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised
a kind of wall up against it_ of turfs, about two feet thick on
the outside, and after some time (I think it was a_ year and a—
half) I raised rafters from it leaning to the rock, and thatched
or covered it with boughs of trees and such things as I could
get to keep out the rain, which I found at some times of the
year very violent. - _
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
_' this pale and into the cave which I had made behind me. But
I must observe, too, that at rst this was a confused heap of
goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my
place. I had no room to turn myself, so I set myself to
enlarge my cave and work farther into the earth, for it was a
loose, sandy rock, Which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed
on it ; and so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of
prey, I worked sideways to the right hand into the rock ; and
then turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made
me a door to ‘come out on the outside of my pale or fortica-
tion. ‘
This gave me not only egress and regress—as it were a back
way to my tent and to my storehouse—but gave me room to
store my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found most wanted, particularly a chair and a table,
for without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I
had in the world—I could not write or eat or do several
things with so much. pleasure without a table. So I went to
work ; and here I must needs observe, that, as reason is the
Turns C ahinetinaher. . 61
substance and origin of mathematics, so by stating and squaré
ing everything by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may be in time master of every
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life ; and yet,
in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found at
last that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially
if I had had tools. However, I made abundance of things
even without tools, and some with no more tools than an adze
and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way before,
and that with innite labour. For example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an
edge before me, and how it at on either side with my axe till
I had brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth
with my adze. It is true by this method I could make but
one board out of a whole tree ; but this I had no remedy for
but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal'of
time and labour which it took me to make a plank or board.
But my time or labour was little worth, and so it was as’well
employed one way as another. .
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the rst place ; and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. But when
I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves,
of the breadth of a foot and a-half, one over another all along
one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work
on, and, in a word, to separate everything at large into their
places that I might come easily at them. I knocked pieces
into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that
would hang up. So that, had my cave been to be seen, it
looked like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and I
had everything so ready at my hand that it was a great pleasure
to me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to nd
my stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was that~ I began to keep a journal of every day’s ~
employment; for indeed at rst I was in too much hurry, and
not only hurry as to labour, but in too much discomposure of
mind, and my journal would have been full of many dull
things. For example, I must have said thus :—“ Sept. 30th.— .
After I had got to shore and had escaped drowning, instead of '
being thankful to God for my deliverance, having rst vomited
with the great quantity .of salt water which had got into my
stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore
wringing my__ hands and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out, ‘ I was undone, undone 1’ till,
tired and faint, I Was forced to lie down on the ground to
repose, but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured.”
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship and got all that I could out of her, yet I could not forbear
getting up to the top of a little mountain and looking out to
sea, in hopes of seeing a ship ; then fancy, at a vast distance,
I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then,
after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and
sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my misery
by my folly. 7
But having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I
began to keep my journal, of which I shall here give you the
copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted, for having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off. .
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659.—I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the ofng, came
on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I called
“The Island of Despair;” all the rest of the ship’s company
being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in aficting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to—viz., I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to y to; and, in
despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me-éeither
that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages,
or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of
night I slept in a tree for fear of wild creatures; but slept
soundly, though it rained all night. _
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the '
ship had oated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again much nearer the island; which as it was some comfort,
on one hand, for-seeing her sit upright and not broken to
Keeps a Yournal. _ i 63
pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board and
get some'food and necessaries out of her for my relief; so, on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my coni-
. rades, who, I imagined, if we, had all stayed on board might
have saved the ship, or at least that they would not have been -
all drowned as they were ; and that, had the men been saved,
we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the
ship to have carried us to some other part of the World. I
spent great part of this day in perplexmg myself on these
things ; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon
the sand as near as I could and then swam on board. This
day also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the
ship, which I brought on shore every tide of ood upon rafts.
Much rain also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather; but it seems this was the rainy seasOn. ' '
Oct. 20. I overset my raft and all the goods I had got upon
it; but being ,in shoal water, and the things being chiey
heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all nightand all day, with some gusts of-
wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces—the wind
blowing a little harder than before—and was no more to be
seen, except the,wreck of her, and that only at low water, I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I had
saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to nd out a
place to x my habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself
from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I. xed upon a proper place, under a rock, and
marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved
to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortication made of double
piles, lined' within with cables and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, thoughsome part of the
time it rained exceeding hard. Y '
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun to see for some food and discover the country, when I
killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I after-
wards killed also because it would not feed. ,
‘ , "if? ' i
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the rst night, making it as large as I could, with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.
’ Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
- of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a_fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortication. ‘ ‘
_ Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon went to
work to make me a table. .
Nov. 4. This 'morning I began to order my times of work,
I of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion
-—viz., every morning I walked out with my gun for two or
three. hours, if it did not rain ; then employed myself to work
till about eleven o’clock ; then ate what I had to live on; and
from twelve till two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessively hot ,'. and then in the evening to work again. The
working part of this day and of the next were wholly employed
in making my table ; for was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete natural ~me-
chanic soon after, as I believe it would do anyone else. ’
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog,
and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, but her esh good
for nothing. Every creature I killed I took off the skins and
preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many
sorts of sea-fowls which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised and almost frightened with two or three seals, which,
vwhile I was gazing at, not well knowing what they Were, got
into the sea and escaped me for that time. ‘ ' ,
' Nov: 6. After my morning walk I went to' work with In
table again, and nished it, though not to my liking ; nor was
it long before I learned to mend it. '
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather; The 7th,
8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th' was Sun-
day) I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me, and
even in the making I pulled it in pieces several times. ‘Note.
—-'I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark
for them on my post, I forgot which was which.
N011. 1.3- This day itrained, which refreshed me exceedingly
QGreat Need of Tools. ' 65 -_
and cooled” the earth; but it was accompanied with terrible
thunder and lightning, which frightened me dreadfullyfor fear
of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate
my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that
it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These “three days I spent in making little
square chests or boxes which might hold about a pound, or two
pounds at most, of powder; and so putting the poWder in, I
stowed it in places as secure and remote from one another as
possible. On one of these three days I killed a large bird that
was good to eat, but I knew not what to call it. ~
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for my further conveniency. Note—Three
things I wanted exceedingly for- this work—viz, a pickaxe, a
shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket; so I desiste'd from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that want and
make me some tools. As for the pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough though heavy. But the
next thing was a shovel or spade ; this was so absolutely neces-
sary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually without it. But '
what kind of one to make I knew not. d
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I ‘found a
tree of that wood, or like it, which in- the Brazils they call the
iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness. Of this, with great
labour and almost spoiling my-axe, I cut a piece and brought
it home too, with difculty enough, for it was exceeding
heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having
no other way, made me a long while upon this machine; for I
worked it effectually- by little and little into the form of a
shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped like oUrs in Eng-
land, only that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, it would not last me' so long. However, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to ; but
never was a shovel I believe made after that fashion, or so long
a-making. ' -
I was still decient, for I wanted a basket or a.Wheelbarrow.
A basket I could not make by any means, having no such
thing as twigs that would bend to make wicker ware—at least
none yet found out. And as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I
could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of,
F .
neither did I know how to go about it ; besides I had no pos-
sible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of ~
the wheel to run in, so I gave it over. And so for carrying
away the earth which I dug out of the cave I made me a thing
like a hod, which the labourers carry mertar in when they
serve the bricklayers. This was not so difcult to me as the
making the shovel; and yet this and the shovel, and the
attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me
up no less than four days—I mean always excepting my
morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and very
seldomfailed also bringing home something t to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still because of
my making these tools, when they were nished I went on,‘
and working every day as my strength and tMe allowed, I
spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously. Note.—
_ During all this time I worked to make this room or cave
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or maga-
zine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for my lodging,
I kept to the tent ; except that sometimes, in the wet season of I
the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry;
which caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my
pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with ags and large leaves of trees like a
thatch. -
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault nished, -
when on‘a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great
quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much
that in short it frightened me. ; and not without reason too, for
if I had been under it I had never'wanted a grave-digger.
Upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do over again;
for I had the loose earth to carryout, and, which was of more
importance, I had the.ceiling to prop up, so that I might be
sure no more would come down. '
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and
’ ’ ‘ got two shores of posts pitched upright to the top, with two
pieces of boards across over each post. This I nished the next
day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week‘
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows,
served me for partitions to part off my house. ‘
From Day 20 Day. 67
Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that, could
be hung up 5 and now I began to be in some order within
doors. '
Dec. 20. Now I carried everything into the cave, and began
to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of board, like a
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be
very scarce with me. Also I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day. No stirring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. N 0 rain, and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter. ,
Dec.- 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I
caught it, and led it home in a string. _ When I had it at
home I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broken.
N.B.——I took such care of ,it that. it lived, and the leg grew
well and as strong as ever ; but by my nursing it so'long it
grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and would
not go away. This was the rst time that I entertained a
thought of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my powder and shot were all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats and no breeze, so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food. This
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and late
with my gun; and lay still in the middle of the day. This ,
evening, going farther into the valleys which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there were plenty of goats, though
exceedingly shy and hard to come at. However, I resolved t
try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. - .
Jan. 2. Accordingly the next day I went out with my dog,
and set him upon the goats ; but I was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well,
for he would not come near them. _
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall, which—being still jealous
of my being attacked by somebody—I resolved to make very
thick and strong. N.B.——This wall being described before, I
purposely omit what was said in the journal. It is sufcient ,
to observe that I was no less time than from the 3rd of J anu-
ary to the 14th of April working, nishing, and perfecting this
mum‘s W1 '1- ' ' an _ ' .. J, .3. w 11"“. ,-
'v 1 I 4 I I '
P .’.o . _ . ~
.
68 ~ .Robinson Crusoe.
well, though it was no more than twenty-four yards in length,
being a half-circle from one place in the rock to another place
about_eight yards from it, the door of the cave being. in the
,centre behind it. ' . .
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days,.nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure till this wall was nished.-
And it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything
was done 'with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods ‘
and driving them into the ground; for I made them much
‘ bigger than I needed to have done. >
When this wall was nished, and the outside double-fenced
with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there they would perceive
nothing like a habitation. And it was very well I did so, as
may be observed hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries these walks of something or other to my advan-
tage. Particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, which built
not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in
the holes of the rocks ; and taking some young ones, I en-
deavoured to breed them up tame, and did so. .But-when they
grew older they ew away, which perhaps was at rst for want
of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them. However, I
frequently found their nests and got their young ones, which
were very good meat. And now, in the managing of my house-
,hold affairs, I found myself wanting in many things, which I
thought at rst it was impossible for me to make, as indeed
as to some of them it was. For instance, I could never make
a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I observed
before, but I could never arrive at the capacity of making one
by them, though I spent many weeks about it. I could neither
put in the heads nor join the staves so true to one another as to
make them hold water. So I gave that also over. _ In the
next place, I was at a great loss for candles ; so that as soon as
ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o’clock, I was
' obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of bees’-wax
with which I made candles in my African adventure,-but I had
none of that new. The only remedy I had was, that when I
Remarhahle Providence. , l 69
killed a goat I saVed the tallow, and with a little dish made of
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added _a wick of some
oakum, I made me a lamp ; and this gave me light, though not
a clear, steady light like a candle. - In the middle of all my
labours it happened that, rummaging my things, I found a little
bag, which, as I hinted before, had been lled with corn for the
feeding of poultry—not for this voyage, but before, as I sup-
pose; when the ship came from Lisbon. ' What little remainder
of corn had been in the bag was all devoured, by the rats,
and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being. '
willing to have the' bag for some other use (I think it was to '
put powder in, when I divided it-for the fear of the lightning,
or some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it on one
side of my fortication under the rock. »
It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned that
I threw this stuff away, taking no notice, and not so much as
rememberingthat I had thrown anything there; when, about
a month after, or thereabout, 1 saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might
be some plant I had not seen ; but I was surprised and perfectly
astonished when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve ears come out, which were perfect green barley, of the
same kind as our European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all ; indeedI had very few notions
of religion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of any-
thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or, as we
lightly say,.what pleases God, without so much as inquiring '
into the end of Providence in these things, or His order in
governing events for the world. But after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously
caused this grain to grow-without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed" purely for my sustenance on that‘wild,
miserable place. _
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my
eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of
Nature should happen upon my account. And this was the
/
more strange to me, because I saw near it still all along by
the side of the rock some other straggling stalks, which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it
grow in Africa, when I was ashore there. I
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but not doubting that there was more in the
place, I went all over that part of the island where I had been
before, peering in every corner and under every rock, to see
for more of it ; but I could not nd any. At last it occurred
to my thoughts that I shook a bag of chickens’ meat out in '
that place, and then the wonder began to cease; and I must
confess my religious thankfulness to God’s providence began to
abate too upon the discovering that all this was nothing but
what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful
for so strange and unforeseen a providence as if it had been
miraculous. For it was really the work of Providence as to
me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of
corn should remain unspOiled (when the rats had destroyed all
the rest), as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also that
I should throw it out in that particular place, where, it being '
‘ in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas,
if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed. .
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June; and laying
up every, corn, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in
time to have some quantity suicient to supply me with bread.
But it [was not till the fourth year that I could allow myself
the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly,
as I shall say afterwards in its order; for I, lost all that I
sowed the rst’season by not observing the proper t'nne ; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up
at all, at least not as it would have done—of which .in its
place. ‘
Besides this barley there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and whose
use was of the same kind or to the same purpose—via, to
make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it
without baking, though I did that also after some time. But
to return to my journal. ‘ . ' ,
'b
A Terrible Earz‘guaiée. I 71
I worked excessively hard these three or four months to get
my wall done 3 and the 14th of April'I closed it up, contriving-
to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder, that
therejmight be no sign on the outside of my habitation. -
April 16. I ' nished the ladder ; so I went up with the-
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it
down in the inside. This was a complete inclosure to me ; for
withinl had room enough, and nothing could come at me from
without, unless-it could rst mount my wall. ~
The very next day after this wall was nished I had almost
had all my labour overthrown at once and myself killed.
The case was thus : As I was busy in the inside of it, behind
[my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was terribly
frightened with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed: for
all on a sudden I found the earth come crumbling down from the
roof of my cave and from the edge of the hill over my head,
and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing
of what was really the cause; only thinking that the top of
.my cave was falling in, as some of it had done before. ,And
for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder,
and not thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall
for fear of the pieces of the hill which I expected might roll
down upon me; I had no sooner stepped down upon the rm
ground, but I-plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake ;, for the
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes’
distance, with, three such shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could have been supposed to have stood
on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half-a-mile from me next the sea, fell down with
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I per-
ceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it ;
and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than
on the island.
I was so much amazed with the thing itself—having never
felt the like nor discoursed with any one that had—that I was
like one dead or stupeed ', and the motion of the earth made
.my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea. But the noise
of ‘the falling of the rock awaked me as it were, and rousing
me from the stupeed condition I was in, lled me with horror,
f\'
and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my
tent and all my household goods, and burying all at once ; and
,this sank my very soul within me a second time. "
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage ; and yet I had not heart enough
to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while I had not the least
serious religious thought, nothing but the common “Lord
have mercy upon me !” and when it was over, that went away
too.
While .I sat thus, I found the air overcast and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind arose
by, little and little, so that in less than half-an-hour it blew
a 'most dreadful hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden
covered over with foam and froth, the shore was covered with
the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the roots,
and a terrible storm it was ; and this held about three hours
and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was quite
calm and began to rain very hard. - All this while I sat upon
the 'ground very much terried and dejected ; when on a
sudden it came into my thoughts that these winds and rain
being the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again.
With this thought my spirits began to revive, and the rain
also helping to persuade -me, I went in and sat down in my
tent——but the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be
beaten down with it, and I was forced to go into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on
my head. This violent rain forced me to a new work—viz.,
to cut a hole through my new fortication like a sink to let
the water go out, which would else have ooded my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and found still no
more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be more com-
posed. And now to" support my spirits—which indeed wantged
it very much—I went to my little store and took a small sup
of rum, which, however, I did then and always very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that was gene.
It continued raining all that night and great part of the next
day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my mind being more
Sets up ‘ a Grindstone. 73
composed, I began to think of what I had best do, concluding
that if the island was subject to these earthquakes there would
be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building
me some little hut in an open place which I might surround
with a wall as I had done here, and so make myself secure
from wild beasts or men. For I concluded if I stayed where
I was I should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the
place where it stood, which was just under the hanging preci-
pice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the two next
days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation. The fear of being swal-
lowed up alive made me that I never slept in quiet, and yet
the apprehension of lying abroad without any fence was almost
equal to it; but still, when I looked about and saw how
everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, -
and how safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove. _
In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require a vast
deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented
to venture where I was till I had formed a camp for myself,
and had secured it so as to remove to it. So with this resolu—
tion I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would
go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and
cables, &c., in a circle as before,'and set my tent up in it
when it was nished ; but that I would venture to stay where
I was till it was nished and t to remove to. This was the
21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means
to put this resolve -int0 execution, but I was at a great loss
about my tools. I had three large axes and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for trafc with the
Indians), but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard
wood'they were all full of notches and dull; and though I
had a grindstone, I could not‘ turn it and grind my tools too. i
This cost me as‘ much thought as a statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the
life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with
a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty. Note—I had never seen any such thing in
England, or at least not to take notice how it was done, though
since I have observed it is very common there; besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost
me a full week’s work to bring it to perfection. ‘
» April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well. ‘
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great
While, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one
' biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy..
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the
tide being low, I saw, something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When I came to it I
found a small barrel and two or three pieces of the wreck of
the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane;
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to
lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined the
barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone. However, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands as near as I
could to the wreck of the ship to look for more.
When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up
at least six feet; and the stern, which was 'broken in pieces
and parted from the rest by the force of the sea soon after I
had left rummaging her, was tossed as it were up and cast on.
one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that side next
her stern, that whereas there was a great place of water before, ~
so that I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the
Wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at rst, but
soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake. And as
by this violence the ship was more broken open than formerly,
so many things came daily on shore which the sea had
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to
the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of remov- '
ing my habitation, and I busied myself mightily, that day
especially,in searching whether I could make any way into
Works . on Me W rec/5'.
the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of that kind,
for all the inside of the ship was choked ,up with sand.
{75?
However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I 7
resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could, of the ship,
concluding that everything I could get from her would be of
some use or other to me. -
May 3‘ I began with my saw, and cut a piece of'a beam.
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together; and when I had cut it through, I cleared ,
away the sand as well as I could from the side which lay
highest ; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for-
that time.
May 4. I went a-shing, but caught not one sh that I durst
eat of, till I was weary of my sport ; when just going to leave '
off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of
some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught
sh enough, as much as I cared to eat ; all which I dried in
the sun, and ate them dry. ‘
May 5. Worked on the wreck, out another beam asunder,
and brought three great r planks off from the decks, which I
tied together, ‘and made to oat on shore when the tide of ood
came on. ‘
May 6. ‘Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of
her and other pieces of iron-work ; worked Very hard, and
came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it.
over. .
May 7. Went on the wreck again, but with an intent not to
it“?
work; but found the weight of the wreck had broken itself '
down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so open
that I could see into it; but it was almost full of water and
sand. - '
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or
sand. _I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide. I left the iron crew in the wreck for
next day. _
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way.
into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks and loosened .
them with the crow, but could not break them up. felt also
1 Fl“; ~wi I
a roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to remove. . I . >
May 10—14; Went every day to the wreck, and got a great
many pieces of timber and -boards, or planks, and two or three
hundredweight of iron. I ' .
May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I could not cut a
‘piece offthe roll [of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet
’ _ and driving it with the other; but as it . lay about a foot and
a—half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet. ' ‘ - .4 . '
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I stayed
solong in the woods to get pigeons for food that the tide pre-
vented my going to the wreck that day. .. . May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shOre
at a great distance, near two miles off 'me, .but resolved to see
. what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away. -
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, an
with hard labour I loosened some things so much with the
crow that the rst blowing tide several casks oated out and
‘ two of the seamen’s chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and
‘a hogshead which had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt
water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work
every day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to
get food, which’I always appointed, during this part , of my
employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbed out ; and by this time I had got timberand
plank and iron-workyenough to have builta good boat, if I had
known how; andv also, I got at several times and in several
pieces near one hundredweight of the sheet lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tor-
toise or turtle. This was the rst I had seen, which, it seems,
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place or scarcity :
for had I happened to be on the other side of the island, I
might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found after-
wards ; but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for them.
June 17 . I spent in cooking the turtle. ' I found in ‘her
threescore eggs ; and her esh was to me at that time the most
i
..
.-
. I 1 e I
.. 4. ‘1‘
I |
I .\
v .
....
(v2
.. . 1
\ t
I .
-
, ..
- a
o. r .
. .
O I
r v
. ‘ .... .
e . e :
_ . .
r. .42.. o
. ..LJiLs . A
-. v f. . 1
...~.¢ .
w ....v . ..
.9. - .
.. ... l ..i n /.\
‘ > > |‘_ 0
v d J ..
. . .. w. s
A .\I.\.. \ . .
n..*. ...“. 9.
.t _ \r .
. . e
4-. .. L .’ '.
..r I
....
n
. Q 0
_
. .
\ A n
i
V a
.
u
i. r_
I
m.
>1, .
_ .
.
. a
’
.
.
>
I l

























































































a
n
A".





a,










































-J"




“r FOUND A LARGE TURTLE.”
- w ‘1‘
Has
savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had
no eshybut of goats and fowls since I landed in this horrid
' place. >
' June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought
at this time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in'that latitude. ’
June 19. Very ill and shivering, as if the weather had been
cold. ~
Jane 20. N 0 rest all night, violent pains in my head, and
feverish. . ,
June 21. Very ill. Frightened almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition—to be sick and no help.~
Prayed to God for the rst time since the storm off Hull, but
scarce knew.what I said, or why, my thoughts being all
confused. -
Jane 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions
of sickness.
Jane 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache. '
Jane 24. Much better.
Jane 25. An ague, very violent. The t held me seven
hours, cold t, and hot, with faint sweats after it. ,-
sze 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed a she}
goat, and with much difculty got it home, and broiled seme
of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it and made some
broth, but had no pot. ‘
Jane 27. The ague again, so violent that I lay a-bed all
day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up or to get
myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again; but was
light-headed, and when I was not I was Kso ignorant that I
knew not what to say, only I lay and cried,“ “ Lord, look upon
me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me !” I sup~
pose I did nothing else for two or three 'hours, till the t
Wearing off I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. ‘
When I awoke I found myself much refreshed, but weak and
exceeding thirsty. However, as I had' no water in my
whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went .to
sleep again. In this second sleep I had this terrible dream; I
an attack of Ague. - A 77
\
t . ’ 1
' 78 ' . Robinson. Crusoe.
thought that I was sitting on the ground on' the outside of my
_ wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake,
I I' and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
bright ame of re, and light upon the ground. He was all
OVer as bright as a ame, so that I could but just bear, to look
towards him. His countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful,
impossible for words to describe. ' When he stepped upon the
ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it
had done before in the earthquake; and all the air looked,_to
my apprehension, as if it had been lled with ashes of re.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth but'he moved forward
- towards me, With a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill
me.~ And when he came to a rising ground at some distance,
he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is impos-
sible to express the terror of it. All that I can 'say I under-
_ stood Was this: “ Seeing all these things have not brought
thee to repentance, now thou shalt die!” At which words I
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to kill
me. ..
N 0 one that shall ever read this account will expect that I ,
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
- vision. I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even
/ dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any more possible. to
' describe the impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked and found it was but a dream. -
I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by an
uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness,
- and a constant conversation with none but such as were like
myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do not‘
remember that I had in all that time one thought that so
much as tended either to looking upwards towards God, or
inwards towards a reection upon my own ways; but a cer-
tain stupidity of soul, without desire of good or conscience of
evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the
most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common
sailors can be supposed to be, not having the least sense, either
of the fear of God; in danger or of thankfulness to God in _
deliverance. - ' ' -
In the relating What is already past of my story, this will be
\
A n A wahened Conscience. '79
the more easily believed when I shall add that, through all the '.
variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never
had so much as one thought of it being the hand of God, or
that it was a just punishment for my sin—my rebellious
behaviour against my father, or my present sins, which were
great; or so much as a punishment for the general course of
my wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition on
the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought
of what would become of me, or one wish to God to direct me
whither I should go, or to keep -me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as
cruel savages. But I was merely thoughtless of a God or a
Providence; acted like a mere brute from the principles of
nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed
hardly that. When I was delivered and taken up at sea by
'the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt justly and
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thoughts. When again I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was as far
from remorse or looking on it as a judgment; I only said to
myself often that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be
always miserable.
It is true, when I got on shore rst here and found all my
ship’s crew drowned and myself spared, I was surprised with
a kind of ecstasy and some transports of soul, which, had the
grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness.
But it ended where it began, in a more common ight of joy,
or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the least
reection upon the distinguishing goodness of the hand which ‘
had preserved me, and had singled me out to [be preserved,
when all the‘rest were destroyed; or an inquiry why Provi-
dence had been thus merciful unto me—even just the same
common sort of joy which seamen generally have after they are
got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which. they drown all in the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over—
and all the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was
afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of my condi- '
tion, how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of
human kind, out of all hope of relief or prospect of redemption,
as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not
. ..,. , W. .. _ _
new; ., . , _ _
starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my afiction wore.
bit, and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the works
proper for my preservation and supply, and was far enough
from being aficted at my condition as a judgment from Heaven
‘ or as the hand of God against me. These were thoughts which
very' seldom entered my head. "
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal, had
at rst some little inuence upon me, and began to affect me
with seriousness as long as‘I thought it had something miracu-
lous in it; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was
removed, all the impression that was raised from it wore off
also, as I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
‘ nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more
immediately directing to the invisible power which alone directs
such things, yet no sooner was the rst fright over but the
impression it had made went off also. I had no more sense of
God or His judgments—much less of the present afiction of
my circumstances being from His hand—than if I had been in e
the most prosperous condition of life. But now when I began
to be sick, and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came
to place itself before me—when my spirits began to sink under-
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted
with the violence of \the fever—conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake, and I beganth reproach myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wicked-
ness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon
strokes,_and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. 'These
reections oppressed me for the second or third day of my
distemper, and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the
dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words
from me like praying to God, though I cannot say they were
either a prayer attended with desires or with hopes; it was
‘ rather the voice of mere fright and distress. _My thoughts
were confused, the convictions great upon my mind, and the
horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised vapours
into my head with the mere apprehension ; and in these hurries
of my soul I know not what my tongue might express. But
it Was rather exclamation, such as, “Lord, what a miserable
creature am I! -If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for
want of help, and what will become of me’l” Then the tears
Calls 2am; God. _ 81
burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good
_ while. In this interval the good advice of my father came to
my mind, and presently his prediction, which I mentioned at'
. the beginning of this story—viz., that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me, and I would have leisure here-
after to reect upon having neglected his counsel, when there'
might be none to assist in my recovery. “ N ow,” said I aloud,
“my dear father’s words are come to pass; God’s justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected
the voice of ProVidence, which had merciftu put me in a
posture or station of life wherein I might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself nor learn to know the
blessing of it from my parents. I left them to mourn over my
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it.
I refused their help and assistance who would have lifted me
in the world, and would have made everything easy to me.
And now I have difculties to struggle with, too great for even
Nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no comfort,
no advice.” Then I cried out, “Lord, be my help, for I am
in great distress.” This was the rst prayer, if I may call it
so, that I had made for many years. But I return to vmy
journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I
had had, and the t being entirely off, I got up; and though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I con-
sidered that the t of the ague Would return again the next
day, and now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill. And the rst thing I
did I lled a large square case-bottle with water,.and set it
upon my table in reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill _or
aguish disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it and mixed them together. Then I got me a
piece of the goat’s esh and broiled it on the coals, but could
eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal
very sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day. At
night I made my supper of three of the turtle’s eggs, which I
roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell; and
this was' the rst bit of meat I had ever asked God’s blessing
to, even as I could remember, in my whole life. After I had
e
. v, i 4 I
'82
H "9'1F7Wms r "H
r ‘ k . ‘ ‘wfa 7’3. .
‘ ..> v '
Robinson Crusoe. I
eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I could
hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without that) ; so I
went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking
out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
to me: What is this earth and sea of which I have seen so
much, whence is it produced; and what am I and all the other
creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal, whence are we?
Sure we'are-all made by some secret power, who formed the
earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is that? Then it
followed most naturally, it is God that has made it all. Well,
but then it came on so strangely, if God has made all these
things, He guides and governs them all, and all things that
concern them; for the Power that could make all things must
certainly have power to guide and direct them. If so, nothing
can happen 'in the great, circuit of His works, either without
._ His knowledge or appointment. _ And if nothing happens
without His knowledge, He knows that I am here, and am in
this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without His
appointment, He has appointed all this to befall me. ' '
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these
conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me with the
greater force that it must needs be that God had appointed
all this to befall me; that I was brought into this miserable
circumstance by His direction, He having the sole power,
not of me only, but of everything that happened in the
'- world. Immediately it followed: Why has God done this to
- have I done?”
me? What have I done to be thus' used? My conscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if. I had blasphemed,
and methought it spoke to me like a voice: “Wretch! dost
thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful
misspent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done? Ask
why it is that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert
thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the ght
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war? devoured
by the wild beasts on the coast of Africa? or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, What
I" was struck dumb. with these reections as
one astonished, and had not a word to say—no, not to answer .
to myself, but ,rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my
A Cure for the A gue. 83
retreat, and went up over the wall, as if I had been going to
bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no
inclination to sleep ; so I sat down in my chair and lighted my
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now as the apprehension of
the return of my distemper terried me very much, it occurred
to my thought that the Brazilians take no physio but their
tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a roll
of tobacco in one of the chests which was quite cured, and
some also that was green and not quite cured. '
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest \I
found a cure for both soul and body. I opened the chest and l
found what I looked for—viz, the tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination to look into—I say I
took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to
the table. What use to make of the tobacco I knew not as to
my distemper, or whether it was good for it. or no ; but I tried
several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should hit
one way or other. I rst took a piece of leaf and chewed it in
my mouth, which indeed at rst almost stupeed my brain, the
tobacco being green and strong, and that I had not been much -
_ used to it. Then I took some and steeped it an hour or two
in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay.
down ; and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it,
as well for the heat as almost for suffocation. In the interval
of this operation I took up the Bible and began to read ; but
my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear
reading, at least at that time. Only, having opened the book
casually, the rst words that occurred to me were these, “ Call
upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me.” These words were very apt to my case, and
made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for‘
being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to me ;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in -my apprehension of
things, that I began to say as the children of Israel did, when
they were promised esh to eat, “Can God spread a table in
the wilderness '5” so I began to say, “ Can God Himself deliver
me from this place 'l” And as it was not for many years that
any hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my
thoughts; but, however, the words made a great impression
upon me, and I mused upon, them very often. It grew now
' late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much
that I inclined to sleep ; so I left my lamp burning in the cave
lest I should want anything in the night, and went to bed. But,
before I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life.
——I kneeled down and prayed to God to full the promise to
me, that if I called 'upon Him in the day of trouble He would
deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco that I could scarcely
get it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed. I found
' presently it ew up into my head violently, but I fell into a
sound sleep, and waked no. more till, by the sun, it must
necessarily be near three o’clock in the afternoon the next day.
Nay, to this hour.I am partly of opinion that‘I slept all the
next day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I know not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done. For if I had lost it by crossing and recross-
ing the line, I should have lost more than one day; but
. certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which
way. Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awoke
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively
and cheerful; when I got up. I 'was stronger than I was the
day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry ; and, in
short, I had no t the next day, but continued much altered
for the better. This was the 29th. ‘-
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to- travel too far. I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought
.them home, but was not very forward to eat them; so I ate
7 some more of the turtle’s eggs, which were very good. ' This
evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me
good thevday before—via, the tobacco steeped in rum; only I
did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the
leaf or hold my head over the smoke. However, I was not so
well the next day, which was the rst of July, as I hoped I
I
swam the Bz'lle. ' 85 7
should have been; forI had a little spice of'the cold t, but
it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and .
dosed myself with it as at rst, and .doubled the quantity -
which I drank. ~
July 3. I missed the t for good and all, though I did not
, recover ‘ my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this
Scripture, “ I will deliver thee ;” and the impossibility of my
deliverance lay much upon my mind in bar of my ever expect-
ing it. But as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts,
it occurred to my mind that I pored “so much upon my
deliverance from the main afiction that I disregarded the
deliverance I had received; and I was as it were made to ask
myself such questions as these, viz.': Have I not been delivered,
and-wonderfully too, from sickness 'l—from the most distressed
condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me? And
what notice had I taken of it? 1 Had I done my part 1' God
had delivered me, but I had not gloried Him; that is to say,
I had not owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance.
And how could I expect greater deliverance? This touched
my heart very much, and irnmediately I knelt down and gave
God thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness. 4
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, and, beginning at
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed
upon myself to read awhile every morning and every night ;\
not tying myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my'
thoughts should engage me. It was not long after I set
seriously to this work till I found my heart more deeply, and
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life. 'The
impression of my dream revived, and the words, “All these
things have not brought thee to repentance,” ran seriously in
my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give me
repentance, when it happened providentiallyr the very day that,
reading the Scriptures, I came to these words :' “ He is exalted
a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance and to give remis-
sion.” I threw down the book, and with my heart as well as
my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of~ ecstasy of joy, I
cried out aloud, “ Jesus, thou' son of David! Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!” This was
the rst time I could say, in the true sense of the words, that
I prayed in all my life ; for now I prayed with a sense of my
condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on
the encouragement of the \Vord of God; and from this time,
I may say, I began to have hope that God would hear me.
N ow I began to construe the words mentioned above, “ Call
upon me, and I will deliver thee,” in a different sense from_
what I had ever done before ; for then I had no notion of any-


“ IMMEDIATELY 1 KNEELED DOWN AND GAVE con THANKS.”
thing being called deliverance but my being delivered from
the captivity I was in. For though I was indeed at large in
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that
in the worst sense in the world ; but now I learned to take it
in another sense. Now I looked back upon my past life with
such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul
sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt
that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing ; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or
think of it; it was all of no consideration in comparison to
New Survey of the Yslana'. '_ ' 87
this. And I add this part here, to hint to whoever'shall read .
it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things they will
‘ nd deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than deliver- _
ance from affliction.
But leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as
to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my
- thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the Scriptures
and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
' deal of comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of.
Also, my health and strength returned, I bestirred myself to
furnish myself with everything that I wanted, and make my
way of living as regular as I could. - i
From the 4th of July to the 14th I was chiey employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at
a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a t
of sickness; for it is hardly to be ,imagined how low I was,
and to what weakness I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps which had never
cured an ague before, neither can I recommend it to any to
_ practise by this experiment. _ And though it did carry off the
t, yet it rather contributed to weakening me, for I had frequent '
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time. I. learned
from it also this in particular, that being abroad in the rainy
season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especially in those rains which came attended with storms
and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in the
dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms,
‘ so I found that rain was much more dangerous than the rain
which fell in September and October. ‘ I
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months;
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirely taken from me, and I rmly believe that no human,
Having now secured-
shape had ever set foot upon that place.
my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to
see what other productions I might nd which I yet knew
nothing of. “
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-‘
ticular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek rst,
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found,
after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not ow
any higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of
running' water, and very fresh and good ,- but this being the
dry season, there was- hardly any water in some parts of it, at
least not enough to run in any stream, so as it-could be per-
ceived. On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant
savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass ;
and on the .rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as might be supposed, never overowed, I
found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great
and very strong stalk. There were divers other plants which
I had no notion of, or understanding about, that might perhaps
have virtues of their own which I could not nd out. I
searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that
climate make their bread of ; but I could nd none. I saw
large plants of alOes, but did not then understand them. I
saw several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation,
imperfect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back musing with myself what course I might
take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or
plants which I should discover, but could bring it to no con_
clusion ,- for, in short, I had made so little observation while I
was in the Brazils,"that I knew little of the plants in the eld,
- at least very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again, and
after going something further than I had gone the day before,
I found the brook and savannahs began to cease, and the '
country became more woody than before. In this part 'I found
different fruits, and, particularly, I found melons upon the
grou‘nd in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
._ vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of them;
but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them,
remembering that, when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves
there, by throwing them into uxes and fevers. But I found
an excellent use for these grapes 5 and that was to cure or dry
A Emma Valley. ‘ * 89‘
them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought would be, as ‘ indeed they were, as
wholesome as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be to be »
had. . 1 .
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the rst night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my rst con-
trivance and got into a tree, where I slept well; and the next
morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling nearly four
miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping ,
still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north side
of me. At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west, and a little spring
of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the bill by me,
ran the other way, that is due east; and the country appeared
so fresh, so green, so ourishing, everything being in a constant
verdure or ourish of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden. I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
my other aiicting thoughts), to think that this was all'my
own, that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly,
and had a right of possession; and if I could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a
manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees,
orange, and lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and very few '
bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very whole-
some; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found
_now I had business enough to gather and carry home; and I
resolved to lay up a .store, as well of grapes ,as‘limes and
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew
was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap
of grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; and, taking
a few‘of each with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to.
come again and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to
carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three days in
this journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and
my cave). But, before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled "


—-the richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little or
nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few. _ , '
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made'
“me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was
surprised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so
rich and ne when I gathered them, I found them all spread
about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here some there,
and abundance eaten and- devoured. By this I concluded
there were some wild creatures thereabouts which had done
this, but what they were I knew not. However, as I found
there was no laying them up on heaps, and no carrying them
' away in a sack, but that one way they would be destroyed
and the other way they would be crushed with their own
weight, I took another course; for I gathered a large quantity
cf the grapes and hung them upon the out-branches 0f the
trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the
limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I could Well stand
under. '
When I' came home from this journey I contemplated with
great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley and the pleasant;
ness of the situation, the security from storms on that side the
water, and the wood, and concluded that I had pitched upon
' a place to x my abode which was by far the worst part of the
country. Upon the whole I began ,to consider of removing
my habitation, and looking out for a place equally safe as where
now I was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of
the island. . _ 4 '
This thought ran long in my'head, and I was exceeding fond
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me;
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered that I
was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that
something might happen to my advantage, and by the same
ill-fate that brought nie hither might bring some other unhappy
wretches to the same place; and though it was scarce probable
that any such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself
among the hills and woods, in the centre of the island, Was to
anticipate my bondage, and to render such an. affair not only
limprobable but impossible; and that, therefore, I ought not
Increase of Family. a - 91
by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured of
this place that I spent much of my time there for the whole of
the remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built me a
little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a .
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, ,
well staked, and lled between with brushwood ; and here I
lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always
going over it with a ladder as before ; so that I- fancied now I
had my country house and .my sea-coast house. And this work
took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly nished my fence and begun to enjoy my
labour when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
rst habitation. For though I had made me a tent like the
other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I
had not the shelter of a hill .to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extra-
ordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had nished my
bower and begun to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found
the grapes I had hung up perfectly dried, and indeed were
excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to take them
down from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for
the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I had
lost the best part of my winter food, for I had above two
hundred large bunches of them. N 0 sooner had I taken them
all down and carried most of them home to my cave but it began
to rain; and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it
rained more or less every day till the middle of October, and
sometimes so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days. , . ' .
In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my '
family. I had been concerned for~the loss of one of my cats, ’
who ran away from me, or as I thought had been dead, and I
heard no more tidings of her till, to my astonishment, she
came home about the end of August with three kittens! This
was the more strange to me, because, thOugh I had killed a.
wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a
quite different kind from our EuroPean eats; yet the young '
cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one ; and both
my ’cats being females, I thought it- very strange. But from '
these three cats I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats
that I was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts, an
to drive them from my house as much as possible. 4 -
From the 14th of August to the 26th incessant rain, so that
‘I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this connement I began to be straitened for food; but
venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day,
which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a
treat to me ; and my food was regulated thus : I ate a bunch
of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of goat’s esh or of the
turtle for my dinner, broiled—for to my great misfortune I had
'no vessel to boil or stew anything—and two or three of the
turtle’s eggs for my supper. -
During-this connement in my cover by the rain I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees
worked it on towards one side till I came to the outside of the
hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond my fence
or wall, and so I came in and out this way. But I was not
perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure, whereas now I thought I
lay exposed and open for anything to come in upon me. And
yet I could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear,
' the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island being.
a goat.
Sept. 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my
landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-ve days. I kept this
day as a solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exercise,
prostrating. myself on the 'ground with the most serious
humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging His
righteous judgments upon ‘me, and praying to Him to have
mercy on me through Jesus Christ. And not having tasted
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes,
and went to bed, nishing the day as I began it. I had all
this time observed no Sabbath~day 3 for as at rst I had no
sense of religion upon my mind, I had after some time omitted
to distinguish the weeks by making a longer notch than ordi- '
nary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what
Sowing out of Season. ” _. 93
any of the days were. But now having cast up the days as
above, I found I had been there a year, so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though
I found at the end of my account I had losta day or two in
my reckoning. A little after this, my ink began to fail me,
and so I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my life, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things. . '
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me ; and I learned to divide them, so as to provide
for them accordingly. But I bought all my experience before-
I had it; and this I am going to relate was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made at all. _
I-have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice which I had so surprisingly found springing up, as I
thought, of themselves, and believed there were about thirty
stalks of rice and about twenty of barley. And now I thought
it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its
southern position. going from me. . Accordingly I dug up a
piece of ground as well as I could with my wooden spade, and
dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to ‘my thoughts that I would not
sow it all at rst, because I did not know when was the proper
time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving
about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to me after-
wards that I did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this
time came to anything; for the dry months following, the
earth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been
but newly sown. Finding my rst seed did not grow, which
' I easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug up a piece
of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed
in February, a little before the vernal equin .»x; and this having
the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung up
very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop. But having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that, I had, I
I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amount—
ing to above half-a-peck of each kind., But by this experiment
TW'W
l
F911
94 Robinson Crusoe.
I was made master of my business, and knew exactly when
the proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two
seed-times and two harvests every year. '
While this corn was growing I made a little discovery which
was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over
and the weather began to settle, which was about the month of
November, I made a visit up the country to my bower, where,
though I had not been some months, yet I found all things
just as I left them. The' circle or double hedge that I had
made was not only rm and entire, but the stakes, which I had
, cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out
‘ ' they grew into in three years.
'a circle of about twenty-ve yards in diameter, yet the trees,
and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually
shoots the rst year after lopping its head. I could not tell
‘what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from. I was
surprised and I yet very well pleased to see the young trees
grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much
alike as I cOuld ; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a gure
So that though the edge made —
for such I might now call them, soon covered it ; and it was a
complete shade, sufcient to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a
hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of
my rst dwelling), which I did; and placing the trees or stakes
in a double row, at about eight yards distance from my rst
fence, they grew presently and were at rst a ne cover to my
habitation, and afterwards served as a defence also, as I shall
observe in its order. - ' '
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be
divided, not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into
the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally
thus: ' -
The half of February, the whole of March, and the half of
'April—rainy; the sun being then on or near the'Equinox.
The half of April, the whole of May, June, and July, and
the half of August—dry ; the sun being then to the north of
the line. ~ _
The half of August, the whole of September, and the half of
October—rainy; the sun being then come back.‘ '
The half of October, the whole of November, December, .and
Succeeds in Basket-'makz'ng.‘ ' 95
January, and the half of February—dry ; the sun being then
to the south of the line. '
The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter, as the _
Winds happened to blow, but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill conse-_
quences of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish
,myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged
4 to go out 3 and I sat within doors as much as possible during
the wet months. In this time I found much employment—_
and very suitable also to the time—for I found great occasion
for many things which I had no way to furnish myself with
but by hard labour and constant application; particularly I tried
many ways to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do
nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that
when I was a boy I used to take great delight in standing at a
basket-maker’s in the town where my father lived to see them
make their wicker-ware ; and being, as boys usually are, very
oicious to help, and a great observer of the manner in which
they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had
by these means full knowledge of the _methods of it, and I
wanted nothing but the materials, when it came into my mind
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows, willows, and ,
osiers in England, and I resolved to try. Accordingly the next
day I went to my country house, as I called it, and cutting
some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire :, whereupon I came the next time
prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon
, found, for there was great plenty of them. These I set up to
dry within my circle or hedge, and when they were t for use
I carried them to my cave 5 and here during the next season I
employed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many
baskets, both to carry earth or to carry or lay ‘up anything, as
I had occasion; and though I did not nish them very
handsomely,‘yet I made them sufciently serviceable for my
purpose 3 and thus afterwards I took care never to be without
them. And! as my wicker-ware decayed I made more ;
especially strong, deep baskets to place my corn in instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it.
- " r r' - ~ - .- ~ - , >\ - ~ ; r . - a
was wigs “if ' . __ *" . - _ _ . ¢ Us new, a
V . ' ' X's
96, ' - Roéz'nsoiz ‘ Crusoe. I '
Having mastered this difculty, and employed a world of
time about it, I‘bestirred myself to see if possible how to sup-
ply two wants. I had no vessel to hold anything that was
liquid except two runlets, which were almost full of rum, and
some glass bottles—some of the common size, and others which ,
were case-bottles, square for the holding of water, spirits, &c.'
I had' not so much as a pot to boil anything, except a great .
' kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and which was too big ‘
for such use as I desired it——viz., to make broth and stew a
bit of meat by itself. The second thing I fain would have had
was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible to me to make one ;
however, I found a contrivance for that too at last. I employed
myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles and in
this wicker-working all the summer or dry season, when
' “another business took me up more time than it could" be
. imagined I could spare. -
I I mentioned before that I‘had a great mind to see the whole
island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so” on to
where I built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to *
the sea on the other side of 'the island. ~ I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so, taking my
gun, a hatchet, and-my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch
of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began my journey.
When I had passed the vale where my bower stood as above, I
came within view of the sea to the west, and it being a very ,
clear day, I fairly descried land—whether an island or a con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending frOm
the west to the west-south-west at a very great distance. By
my guess it could not be less than fteen or twenty leagues off.‘
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part ofAmerica, and, as
I concluded by'all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by savages,.where,
if I had landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was
now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of Provi-
dence, which I began now! to own and to believe ordered
everything for the best; I say I quieted my mind with this,
- and left off aficting myself with fruitless 'wishes of being
there. ' - -
Abundance of Food. 2 . ~ 97‘
Besides, .after some thOught upon this affair, I considered
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or
'other ; but if not, then it was the savage coast between the '
Spanish country and the Brazils, where are found the worst of
savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and faill'not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands. 1 ’
With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward.
I found. that side of the v island where I _ now ' was much \
pleasanter than mine; the ' open or savannah elds sweet,-
adorned with owers and grass, and full of very ne woods.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have caught one,
if possible, to have kept it to be tame and taught it to speak
to me. I did, after some painstaking, “catch, a young parrot,
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it I
brought it home; but it was some years before I could make,
him speak. However, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though
it be a trie, will be Very diverting in its place. , ' ‘ ‘
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I' found in
the low grounds hares—as I thought them to be—and foxes ;
but they differed greatly ,from all the other kinds I had met
with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed
several. ‘ But I had no need to be venturous,. for I had no
want of food,,and of that which was 'very good too ; especially
these three sorts—yin, goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise,
which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall Marketcould not have
furnished a table better than I in proportion to the company.
And though ' ‘my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness that I was not driven to any extremities
for food, rather had plenty, even to dainties. '. '
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright
in 'a day, or thereabouts. But I took so..'_many turns and
returns to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where'I resolved to sit'down for all night;
and then I either reposed myself in a tree or surrounded myself i
with a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from one .
tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me
without waking me.
n
As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island;
for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable


. ’ 6/ ' "a '
'-
<- -' I“ "'1 it"; e117,“
“ THE SHORE \VAS COVERED WITH INNUMERABLE TURTLES."
turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three in a
year and a-half. Here was also an innite number of fowls of
many kinds—some which I had seen, and some which I had
Tour of 021960216731. 99
not seen before ,' and many of them very good meat—but such
as I knew not the names of, except those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very spar-
ing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more mind to'
‘ kill a she-goat if I could, which I could better feed on ; and
though there were many goats here—more than on my side
the island—yet it was with much more difculty that I could
come near them, the country being at and even, and they saw
me much sooner than when I was on the hill.
- I confess this side'of the country was much pleasanter than
mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to remove, for as
I was xed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I
seemed all the while I Was here to be as it were upon a journey,
and from home. However, I travelled along the shore of the
sea towards the east, Ilsuppose about twelve miles ; and then,
setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded
I would go home again, and that the next journey I took
should be on the other side of the island east from my dwell-
ing, and so round till I came to my post again: of which in
its place. - _ _ , s
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily- keep all the island so much in myview that I
could not miss nding my rst dwelling by viewing the
country. But I found myself mistaken ; for being come about
two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large.
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered
with wood, that I could not see which was my way by any '
directiOn but that of the srm, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. It
happened, to my further misfortune, that the weather proved
hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley, and not
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, ,
and at last was obliged to nd the sea-side, look for my post,
and come back the same way I went. And ‘then by easy
journeys I turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot,
ind my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things very
eavy. - _
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid and seized '
upon it, and I, running in to take hold of it, caught it, and
saved it alive' from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it
100 . ‘ Roéz'e'zson Ce'usoe.’
home if I could ; for Ihad often been musing whether it might
not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, Which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be all spent. I made a collar for this little creature,_
and with a string which I made of some rope-yarn, which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower ; and there I enclosed him
and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above. a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch and lie down in my hammock-bed. This
little wandering journey, without settled, place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to
_ myself, was a perfect settlement to me compared to that 3 and
it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I resolved
I would never go a great way from it again while it should be
. my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after
my long j0urney 3 during which most of the time was taken
up in the weighty-affair of making a cage for- my Poll, who
began now to be a mere domestic, and' to be Well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid which I had
penned in ‘within my little circle, and resolved to go ,and fetch
it home or give it some food. Accordingly I went, and found
it where I left it ; for indeed it could not get out, but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs of
trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could nd, and threw
it over 3 and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
away. But it was so tame with being hungry that I had no
need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog ; and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and
so fond, that it became from that time one of my domestics also,
and would never leave me afterwards. '
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was n0w come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner
as before 3 being the anniversary of my landing on the island,
having now been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the rst day I came there; I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
\
' Grateful, yet discontenleaz'. _ 101
attended with, and without which it might have been innitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that God .
had been pleased to discover to me that it was possible I might
be more happy in this solitary condition than I should have '
been in the liberty of society and in all the pleasures of the .
world ; that He could fully make up to me the deciencies of
my solitary state and the want of human society by His pre-
sence and the communications of His grace to my soul—-
supporting, comforting, [and encouraging me to depend upon ,
His providence here and hope for His eternal presence here-
after. ‘
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the
past-part of my days. And now I changed both my sorrows
and my joys; my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at my rst coming, or indeed for the two years
past. , . .
Before, as I walked about, either'on my hunting or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart
would die within me to think of the woods, the mountains, the
deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner locked up with the‘
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilder-
ness, without redemption In the midst of the, greatest
composure of my mind, this would break out upon me like a
storm, and make 'me wring my hands and weep like a child.
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work ; and I ,
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together. And this was still worse
‘to me; for if I could burst out into tears or vent myself by '
words it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted itself,
would abate. ' _
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts. I
daily read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts of it
to my present state. One morning, being very sad, I opened
the Bible upon these words, “I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake, thee.” Immediately it occurred that these'words
were to me. Why else should they be directed in such a
l
manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man? “Well, then,”
said I, “if God does not forsake me, of '.what ill consequence
can it be, or what matters it, though the world should all for-
sake me, seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no
comparison in the loss?”
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it
i was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary
condition than it was probable I should ever have been in any
. other particular state in the world; and with this thought I
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place.
I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thought, and I durst not speak the words. “How canst
thou be such a hypocrite,” said I, even audibly, “to pretend
to be thankful for a condition which, however thou mayest
endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst rather pray
heartily to be delivered from?” So I stopped there. But
though I could not say I thanked God for being there, yet I
sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by what-
ever aiicting providences, to see the former condition of my
life, and to mourn for my wickedness and repent. I never
opened the Bible or shut it but my very soul within me blessed
God for directing my friend in England, without any order of
mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assisting me
afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year. And though I have not given the reader the trouble of
so particular an account of my works this year as the rst, yet
in general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle, but
having regularly divided my time according to the several daily
‘ employments that were before me—such as, rst, my duty to
God and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set
apart some time for thrice every day ; secondly, the going abroad
with my gun for food, which generally took me up three hours
in every morning when it did not rain; thirdly, the ordering,
- curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught
for my supply—these took up, great part of the day. Also it
is to be. considered that in the middle of the day, when the
sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great
Great wam‘ of T 001s“ ‘103
to stir out, so that about four hours in the evehing was all the
time I could be supposed to werk in 5 with this exception, that .
sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working, and
went to work in the morning and abroad with my gun in the
afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour I desire may be added
the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the many hours
which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, every-
thing I did took up out of my time. For example, I was full
two-and-forty days in making me a board for a long shelf which
I wanted in my cave ; whereas two sawyers, with their tools
and a saw-pit, would have out six of them out of the same tree
in half-a-day.
My case was this : it was to be a large tree which was to be
cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree
I was three days in cutting down, and two more cutting off
the boughs, and reducing it to a log' or piece of tirriber. With
inexpressible hacking and hewing I reduced both the sides 'of
it into chips till it began to be light enough to m0ve ; then I
turned it, and made one side of it smooth and at as a board
from end to end ; then, turning that side downward, cut the
other 'side, till I brought the plank to be about three inches
thick, and smooth on both sides. Anyone may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but labour and
patience carried me through that and many other things. I
only observe this in particular to show the reason why so much
of my time went away with so little work—via, that What
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast
labour and required a prodigious time to do alone and by hand.
' But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went
through many things 3 and, indeed, everything that my circum-
stances made necessary to me to do, as will appear by what
follows. . .
I was now—in the months of November and December—
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured and dug up for them was not great; for, as I observed,
my seed of each was not above the quantity of half-a-peck, for
I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season. - But
now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I found I
was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts,
. which it was scarce possible to keep from it: as, rst, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day as soon as
it came up, and ate' it so close that it could get no time to shoot
up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure about
it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil, and the
more because it required speed. . However, as my arable land
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced
in about three weeks’ time 5 and shooting some of the creatures
in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark
all night long. So in a little time the enemies forsook the
place, and the corn grew very strong and well, and began to
ripen apace. _ , ,
But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now when it
was in the ear; for going along by the place to see how it
throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of I know
not how many sorts, who stood as it were watching till I should
be gone. I immediately let y among them, for I always had
my gun with me. I had no sooner shot but there rose up '
a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among
the corn itself. ' . .
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes ; that I should be starved, and
never be able to raise a crop at all ; and what to do I could not '
tell. However, I resolved not to lose my corn if possible, I
though I should watch it night and day. In the rst place, I
went among it to see what damage was .already done, and
found they had spoiled a good deal of it, but that, as it
was yet too 'green for them, the loss was not so great but
that the remainder was like to be a_ good crop if it could be
saved. . ~ .
_ I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me,
as if they only waited till I was gone away. And the > event
proved it to be so ; for as I walked off as if Iwas gone, I was
no sooner out'of their sight than they dropped down one by
one into the corn again. I was so provoked that I could not
T he Second Harvest. 105
have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every
grain that they ate now was, as it might be said,~a peck-loaf to
me in the consequence; but coming up to the hedge, I red
again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for ;,'
so I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England—hanged them in chains for a terror to others.
It is impossibleto imagine that this should have such an effect
as it had, for the fowls would not only not come at the corn,
' but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I could
never see a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung
there. This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second harvest of
the year, I reaped my crop. -
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down;
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of
one of the broadswords or cutlasses which I saved among the
arms-out of the ship. However, as my rst crop was but
small, I had no great diiculty to cut it down. In short, I
reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and
carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so
rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end of all my
harvesting I found that out of ‘my half-peck of seed I had near
two bushels of rice and about two bushels and a-half of
barley—that is to say, by my guess, for I had- no measure at
that time. _ -
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I foresaw
that in time it would please God to supply me with bread.
And yet here I was perplexed again : for I neither knew how
to grind or make meal of my corn, or, indeed, how to clean it
and part it ; 'nor, if made into meal, how to make bread of it;
and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and in the meantime to employ all my study and
hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread. -
~ It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread. It
is a little - wonderful, and what I believe' few people have
thought lmuch upon—viz., the strange multitude of little things
necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making,
and nishing this one article of bread. .
I that was reduced to a mere state of nature found this to
my daily discouragement, and was made more and more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the rst handful of seed-
corn; which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed
to a surprise. '
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a wooden
spade, as I observed before. But this did my work in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many days to
make it, yet for want of iron it not only wore out the sooner
but made my work the harder, and made it be performed
much worse. - However, this I bore with, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sown I had no barrow, but
was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough
of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called, rather than
rake or harrow it. When it was growing and grown, I have
observed already how many things I wanted to fence it,
secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry, it home, thrash, part
it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind
it, sieves to dressit, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it ; but all these things I did without, as shall
be observed : and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and
advantage to me too. All this, as I said, made everything
laborious and tedious to me, but that there was no help for,
neither was my time so much loss to me, because, as I had
divided it, a certain part of it was every day appointed to these
works. And as I had resolved to use none of the corn for_
bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six
months to apply myself wholly by labour and invention to
furnish myself with utensils proper for the performing all the-
operations necessary for making~ the corn (when I had it) t'
for my use. '
But, rst, I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I
had a week’s work at least to make me a spade; which, when
it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labour to work with it. However, I got
T he Pam/02f Speaks. 107
through that, and sowed my seed in two large at pieces of
ground as near my house as I could nd them to my mind,
and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all out off that wood Which I had set before, and knew it
would grow ,- so that in one year’s time I knew I should have
a quick or living hedge, that would want but little repair.
This work did not take me up less than three months, because
a great part of that time was the wet season, when I could not
go abroad. Within doors—that is, when it rained, and I
could not go out—I found employment in the following occu-


"1 QUICKLY TAUGHT HIM 'ro KNOW ms OWN NAME.”
pations, always observing that all the while I was at work I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him
to speak; and I quickly taught him to know his own name
and at last to speak it out pretty loud—Poll, which was the
rst word I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but
my own. This, therefore, was not my work but an assistance
to my work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment
upon my hands, as follows—I had long studied to make, by
some means or other, some earthen vessels, which, indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at them. How-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but
if I could nd out any clay I might make some pots thatmight,
being dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to
bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry and required
to be kept so. And as this was necessary in the preparing
corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was doing, I_ resolved
to make some as large as I could, and t only to stand like jars-
to hold what should be put into them ' .
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me,
to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste 3
what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made 3 how many of them
fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough
to bear its own weight 3 how many cracked by the over-violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily 3 and how many fell
in pieces with only removing as well before as after they were
dried 3 and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to nd
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it,
I could not make above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot
call them jars) in about two months’ labour. -
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lifted them very gently. up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might'not break 3 and- as' between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stu'ed it full of the
rice and barley straw. And these two pots being to stand '
always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and Perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised. - ' ’ -
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success—such as
little round pots, at dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any
things my hand turned to 3 and the heat of the sun baked them
strangely hard. ‘
'But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the re, 'which
none of these could do. It happened after some time, making
a pretty large re for cooking my meat, when I went to put it
'out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of
my earthenware vessels in the. re burnt as hard as a stone and
red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to
Success as a Potter. 109
myself that certainly they might be made to burn whole if
they would burn broken. '
This set me to study how to order my re so as to make it
burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
burn in; or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead
to do it with ; but I placed three large pipkins and two or
three pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed myrewood
all round it with a great heap of embers under them. I plied
the re with fresh fuel round the outside and upon the top till
I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and, observed
that they did not crack at all; when I saw them clear red, I
let them stand in that heat about ve or six hours, till I found
one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run ; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of
the heat, and would have run into glass if I had gone on; so I
slacked my re gradually, till the pots began to abateof the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I might not let the
re abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good (I will
not say handsome) pipkins, and two other earthen pots as hard
burnt as could be desired, and one of them perfectly glazed
with the running of the sand. 1
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort
of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the
shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may sup-
' pose, when I had no way of making them but as the children
make dirt pics, or as a woman would make pics that never
learned to raise paste. ' I ‘ f
N 0 joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the
re ; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold
before I set one on the re again with some water in it to boil
me some meat, which it did admirably well. And with a piece
-of a kid I made some very good broth, though I wanted oat~
meal and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good
as I would have had it been. I .
‘My next concern was, to get me a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought‘of
arriving atethat perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this want I was at a great loss ; for, of all the trades'in
the world, I was as perfectly unqualied for a stonecutter as
for any whatever; neither had I'any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to nd out a great stone big enough to cut
hollow, and make it t for a mortar, and could nd none at all,
except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to
dig or cut out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of
hardness suicient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, _
which neither would hear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor ‘
would break the 00m without lling it with sand. So after a
'great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over,
and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood, which
I found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of re and
innite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their “canoes. After this I made a great heavy
pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood ; and this I '
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, which
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, into meal to
make bread. . ’
My next diiculty was to make a sieve or search to dress
my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk ; without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This
was a most difcult thing, even to think on; for, to be sure, I
had nothing like the necessary thing to make it—I mean ne -
thin canvas, or stuff, to search the 'meal through. And here I
was at a full stop for many months; nor did I really, know
what to do. Linen I had none left but what was mere rags.
I had goats’ hair, but neither knew how to weave it or spin it ;'
and had I known how, here were no tools to work it with.
All the remedy that I found for this was, that at last I did
remember I had, among the seamen’s clothes which were saved.
out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; and with
some pieces of these I made three small sieves proper enough
for the work ; and thus I made shift for some years. How I ‘
- did afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for, rst, -
I had no yeast. As to that part, there was no supplying the
want, so I did not concern myself much about it. \ But for an
oven I was indeed in great pain. At length I found out an
Baker and Pastry-000k. 111
experiment for that also, which was this—I made some earthen
vessels very broad, but not deep ; that is to say, about two feet
diameter, and not above nine inches deep. _These I burned in
the re, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and when
I wanted to bake I made a great re upon my hearth, which I
had paved with some square tiles of my own baking and burn-
ing also—but I should not call them square. >
When the rewood was burned pretty much into embers, or
live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to‘
cover it all over, and there I letpthem lie till the hearth was
very hot ; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
leaf or loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon them,
drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in
and add to the heat ; and thus, as well as in the best oven in
the world, I baked my barley loaves, and became in little
time a good pastry-cook into the bargain, for I made myself
several cakes and puddings of the rice; but I made no pies,
neither had I anything to put into them, supposing I had,
except the esh either of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is to be
observed that, in the intervals of these things, I had my new
harvest and husbandry to manage ; for I reaped my corn in its
season, and carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up
in the ear in my large basket till I had time to rub it out, for
I had no oor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it
with. - '
- And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay it
up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much
that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice
' as much or more; insomuch that now I resolved to begin to
use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great while.
Also I resolved to see what quantityiwould be sufcient for me
a whole year, and to sow but once a-year. .
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley
and rice were much more than I could consume in a year ; so
- I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that I
sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity'would fully pro-
vide me with bread, &0.
I
All the while these things were doing you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I
had seen from the other side of the island 3 and I was not
without secret wishes that I were on shore there, fancying that,
seeing the mainland, and an inhabited country, I might nd
some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at
last nd some means of escape. ' '
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such an undertaking, and how I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came
in their power, I should run a hazard of more than a thousand
to-one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten 3 for I had
heard that the people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals or
man-eaters, and I' knew by the latitude that I could not be far
from that shore. Then, supposing they were not cannibals,
yet they might kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen
into their hands had been served, even when they had been
ten or twenty together—much more I, that was but one, and
could make little or no defence 3 all these things, I say, which
I ought to have considered well, and did come into my
thoughts afterwards, yet gave me no apprehensions at rst,
but my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over
to the shore. , _ ' -
Now I wished for my boy Xury and the longboat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I had sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa 3 but this was in vain.
Then I thought I would go and look at our ship’s boat, which,
as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way in
the storm when we were rst cast away. She lay almost where
she did at rst, but not quite 3 and was turned by the force of
the waves and the winds almost bottom upward against a
high ridge of beachy rough sand, but no water about her. If
I had had hands to have retted her, and to have launched her
into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and I
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough 3
but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn her and set
her upright upon her bottom than I could remove the island.
However, I went to the woods and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolved to try what I could do,
Mac/c Lalonr Lost. 113
suggesting to myself that if I could but turn her down I might
repair the damage she had received, and she would be a very
good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At last, nding
it impossible to heave it up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in the
fall. ' '
But when I had done this I was unable to stir it up again
or to get under it, much less to move it forward towards the
water, so I was forced to give it over ; and yet, though I gave
over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over the main
increased rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed
impossible.
This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as the natives
of those climates make—even without tools, or, as I might say,
without hands—of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible but easy, and pleased myself extremely with
the thoughts of making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the negroes or Indians ; but not
at all considering the particular inconveniences which I lay
under more than the Indians did—viz., want of hands to move
it, when it was made, into the water ; a difculty much harder
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of tools
could be to them. For what was it to me—when I had chosen
a vast tree in the woods, and with much trouble cut it down,
if I had been able with my tools to how and dub the outside
into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside
to make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it—if, after all this,
I must leave it just there where I found it, and not be able to
launch it into the water?
One would have thought I could not have had the least
reection upon my mind of my circumstance, while I was
making this boat, but I should have immediately thought how
I should get it into the sea. But my thoughts were so intent
upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never once considered
how I should get it off the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-ve miles of sea,
I
than about forty've fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it
aoat in the water. , j
' I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man 'did who had any of his senSes awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it; not but that the difculty of launching my
boat came often into my head, but I put a stop to my inquiries
into it by this foolish answer which I gave myself—“ Let me
rst make it; I warrant I will nd some way or other to .get
it' along when it is done.” ~
This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of
my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar-tree
——and I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building of the Temple of Jerusalem! It was ve feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet;
after which ,it lessened for a while, and then parted into
branches. It was not without innite labour that I felled this
tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the
bottom. I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs
and the vast spreading head cut o“, which I hacked and
hewed through with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour.
After this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it so as to make an
exact boat of it. This I did indeed without re, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six-and—twenty men, and consequently big enough
to' havecarried me and all mycargo. I . - "
,When' I had gone through this work, I Was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever
I saw a 'canoe' or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my
life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, .you may be sure; and
had 'I gotten it into the water, I make. no question but I should
have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be
performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, though
they cost me innite labour too. It lay about. one hundred
“1T
COST
ME
THREE
MONTHS
...
fl~¥rw
(
.H
.4-
J,
j v
\a;_ '
7‘ in?
_'—
\-
v
{3?


TO CLEAR THE INSIDE."
. End of Fourth Year. 115
yards from the water, and not more ; but the rst inconvenience
was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away -
this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity. This I began, and it cost me
a prodigious deal of pains—but who grudge pains that have
their deliverance in view 'l—but when this was worked through,
and this difculty managed, it was still much the same, for I
could no more stir the canoe than I couldthe other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a
dock or canal to bring the waterup to the canoe, seeing I could
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work, and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was'to be
thrown out, I found that, by the number of hands I had, being
none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years before
I could have gone through with it ; for ‘the shore lay so high
that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet
deep. \ S0 at length, though with great reluctance, I gave this
attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
' before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
with it. .
In the middle of this work I nished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort as ever before ; for by a constant study
and serious application to the Word of God, and by the assist-
ance of His grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I
had before. I entertained different notions of things. I looked
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing
to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no desires about ;
in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever
like to have; so I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look~
upon it hereafter—viz., as a place I had lived in, but was come
out'of it ; and well might I say, as Father Abraham to Dives, .
“ Between me and thee is a great gulf xed.”
In the rst place, I was removed from all the wickedness of
the world here ; I had neither the lusts of the esh, the lusts
of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for
I had all that I was now capable of enjoying. I was lord of
the whole manor; or, if I pleased, might call myself king or
- emperor over the whole country which I had possession of.
There were no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute
sovereignty or command with me. I might have raised ship-
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it ; so I let as little grow
' as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or turtle
enough, but now and then one was as much as I could put to
any use. I had timber enough to have built a eet of ships.
I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that eet when it had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valuable. I
had enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was all the
rest to me? If I killed more esh than I could eat, the dog
must eat it, or vermin. If I sowed more corn than I could eat,
it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut down were lying to
rot on the ground ; I 'could make no more use of them but for
fuel,- and that I had no occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to
me, upon just reection, that all the good things of this world
are no farther good to us than they are for. our use; and that,
whatever we may heap up to give others, we enjoy just as much
as We can use, and no more. The most covetous, griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness, if he had been in my case ; for I possessed in-
nitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no room
for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they
_were but tries, though indeed of great use to me. I had, as
I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about
thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas ! there the sorry, useless stu' ,
lay; I had no manner of business for it, and often thought
with myself that I would have given a handful of it for a gross
of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay, I
would have given it all for sixpennyworth of turnip and carrot
seed out of England, or for a handful of peas and beans and a
bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by it
or benet from it, but there it lay in a drawer, and grew
' ~ mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons ; and if
. I had had the drawer full of diamonds it had been the same
case, they had been of no manner of value to me, because of
no use.
Reasons for Contentment. i 117
I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in
itself than it was at rst, and much easier to my mind as well
as to my body. - I frequently sat down to meat with thankful-
ness, and admired the hand of God’s providence, which had
thus spread my table in the wilderness. I learned to look
more upon the bright side of my condition and less upon the
dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I
wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that
I cannot express them, and which I take noticelof here to put
those discontented people in mind of it who cannot enjoy
comfortably what God has given them, because they see and
covet something that He has not given them. All our discon-
- tents about'what' we want appeared to me to spring from the '
want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as
mine was, and this was, to compare my present condition with
what I at rst expected it would be, nay, with what it would
' certainly have been if the good providence of God had not
wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore,
where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I
got out of her to the shore for my relief and comfort, without
which I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence,
and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing
to myself in the most lively colours how I must have acted if
. I had got nothing out of the ship; how I could not have so
much as got any food except sh and turtles, and that as it
was long before I found any of them, I must have perished
rst: that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a
mere savage ; that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any con- .
trivance, I had no way to ay or open it, or part the esh
from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up, but must gnaw
it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws like a beast.
‘ These reections 'made me very sensible of the goodness of
Providence to me, and very thankful for my present condition,
with all its hardships and misfortunes. And this part also I
cannot but'recommend to the reection of those who are apt
in their misery to say, “Is any afiction like mine?” Let
_ them consider how much worse the cases of some people are,
and their case might have been if Providence had thought
t.
I had another reection which assisted me also to comfort
my mind with hopes, and this was, comparing my present
condition with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason
to expect from the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful
life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God. I
had been well instructed by father and mother 3 neither had
they been wanting to me in their early endeavours to infuse a
' religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and
what the nature and end of my being required of me. But,
alas ! falling early into the seafaring life, which of all lives is j
the most destitute of the fear of God, though His terrors are '
always before them 3 I say, falling early into the seafaring life,
and into seafaring company, .all that little sense of religion
which I had entertained was laughed out of me by my mess-
mates, by a hardened despising of dangers and the views of
death, which grew habitual to me by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with anything but what '
was like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or tended
towards it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or the least sense
of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I
enjoyed—such as my escape from Sallee, my being taken up
by the Portuguese master of the ship, my being planted so well
in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like—I never had once the words “Thank God i” so much as
on my mind or in my mouth 3 nor in the greatest distress had
I so much as a thought to pray to Him, or so much as to say,
“Lord, have mercy upon me!” no, nor to mention the name
of God, unless it was to swear by and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reections upon my mind for many months, as
I have already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened
life past 3 and when I looked about me and considered what
particular providences had attended me since my coming into
_ this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with me—had
not only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but
had so plentifully provided for me—this gave me great hopes
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet mercy
in store for me. - ‘
Grateful for Mercz'es. 119
With these reections I worked my mind up, not only to a
resignation to the will of God in the present disposition of my
circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my con-
dition ; and that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to
complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to have -
' expected in that place; that I ought never more to repine at
my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that
daily bread which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought: that I ought to consider I had been fed even by
miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens ; nay,
by a long series of miracles: and that I could hardly have
named a place in the uninhabited part of the world where I
could have been cast more to my advantage—a place where, as
I had no society, which was my afiction on one hand, so I
found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers to threaten
my life, no venomous creatures or poisonous which I might
feed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me. In
a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a
life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life
of comfort but to be able to make my sense of God’s goodness
to me and care over me in this condition be my daily consola;
tion. And after I did make a just improvement of these things,
I went away and was no more sad. ' _
I had now been here so long that many things which I had
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone or very
much wasted and near spent. My ink, as I observed, had been
gone some time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water a little and a little till it. was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted I
made use of it to minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened to me, and rst by casting up
times past. I remember that there was a strange concur-
rence of days in the various providences which befel me, and
' which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days I
as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked
upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away
from my father and friends, and ran away to Hull in order to
go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war and made a slave. The same day of the year that
I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, -
that same day year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee
in a boat. The same day of the year I was born on—viz., the
30th of September—that same day I had my life so miracu-
lously saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore
in this island, so that my wicked life and my solitary life began '
both on a day. _ .
The next thing to my ink being wasted was that of my bread
—I mean the biscuit which I br0ught out of the ship. This I
had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake
of bread a-day for above a year, and yet I was quite without
bread for, near a year before I got any corn of my own; and
great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to miracu-
one.
My clothes began to decay too mightily. As to linen, I had
had none a good while, except some checkered shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no other clothes on
but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I had
among all the men’s clothes of the ship almost three dozen of
shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats of the
seamen’s, which were left, but they were too hot to wear. And
though it is true that the weather was so _violently hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked—v
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor
could I abide the thought of it, though I was alone. The
reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could not bear
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some
clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin;
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it.
N o more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the
“ sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of the sun, beating with '
such violence as it does in that place, would give me the head-
ache presently by darting so directly on my head without a
cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on
my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting the few
Makes an Umérella. 121
rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I had
worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to
try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats
which I had by me, and with such other materials as I had;
so I set to work tailoring, or rather indeed botching, for I
made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make
two or three' new waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a
great while. As for breeches or drawers, I made but a very
sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed—I mean four-footed ones—and I had them hung
up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means some
of them were so dry and hard that they were t for little, but
others were very useful. The rst thing I made of these was
a great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside to shoot
off the rain; and this I performed so, well, that after this I
made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins—that is to
say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, and both
loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to
keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter I was a
worse tailor. However, they were such as I made 'very good
shift with, and when I was out, if it happened to rain, the
hair of my waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me
an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had
a great mind to make one. I had seen them made in the
Brazils, where they are very useful in the great heats there; and
I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being
nearer the equinox. Besides, as I was obliged to be' much
. abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains
as the heats. I took a world of pains with it, and was a great
_ while before I could make anything likely to hold ; nay, after
\‘\\~\ I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I
‘\made one to my mind ; but at last I made one that answered
indifferently well. The main difculty I found was to make
it let down. I could make it spread, but if it did not let down
too and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but just
over my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I
said, I made one'to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept
off the sun so effectually that I could walk out in the hottest
of the weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest 3 and when I had no need of it, could close it and
carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning myself to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of His providence. This
made my life better than sociable 3 for when I began to regret
the want of conversation, I would ask myself whether thus
conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I ,
may say, with even God Himself by ejaculations, was not
better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the-
world 2 ' ,
I cannot say that after this, for ve years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before. The chief things I
was employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my
barley and rice and curing my raisins, of both of which I
always kept up just enough to have sufcient stock of one year’s
provision beforehand 3 I say, besides this yearly labour and my
daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had one labour to
make me a canoe, which at last I nished 3 so that by digging
a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet deep, I brought it into
the creek almost half-a-mile. ' As for the rst, which was so
vastly big, for I made it without considering beforehand, as I
'ought to do, how I should be able to launch it, so never
being able to bring it to the water, or bring the water to
it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was as a memorandum
to teach me to be wiser next-time; Indeed the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place
where I could not get the water to it at any less distance than,
as I have said, near half-a-mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable
at last, I never gave it over 3 and though I was near two years
about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a
boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was nished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view when I made the rst—I mean of venturing over to
Completes a small Boat. ‘ 123
the term rma, where it was above forty miles broad.
Accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end
to that design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I had
a boat, my next design was to make a cruise round the island ;
for as I had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I
have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast ; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island. I '
For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion
and consideration, I tted up a little mast to my boat, and
made a sail too out of some of the pieces of the ship’s sails,
which lay in store, and of which I had a great stock by me.
Having tted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well. Then I' made little lockers or boxes
at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammuni-
tion, &c., into, to be kept dry either from rain or the spray of
. the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of
the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a ap to hang
down over it to keep it dry.
I xed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, '
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me
like an awning ; and thus I every now and then took a voyage
upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little
creek. At last, being eager to view the circumference of my
little kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and accordinglle
victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice—a food I ate a good deal of—
a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for
killing more, and two large watch-coats of those which, as I
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen’s chests;
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the
night. , .
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this
voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected. For
though the island itself was not very large, yet, when I came
to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lieout
above two leagues into the sea, some above water. some under
it 3 and beyond that a shoal of‘ sand, lying dry half-a-league
'more. So that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point. '
. \ When rst I discovered them I was going to give over my
I enterprise and come back again, not knowing how far it might .
oblige me to go out to sea; and above all, doubting how I
should get back again 3 so I came to an anchor—for I had .
made a kind of an' anchor with a piece of a brdken grapling
which I got out of the ship. '
- Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore,
climbing up upon a hill which seemed to overlook that point, \
where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill ’where I stood, I per-
ceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran
to the east,‘and even came close to the point. And I took the
more notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger
that when I came into it I might be carried out to sea bythe
strength of it, and not be able to make the island again. And
indeed, had I not got rst upon this hill, I believe it would
have been so 3 for there was the same current on the other side
-the island, only that it set off at a farther distance. And I saw
there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had nothing to
do but to get in out of the rst current and I should presently
be in an eddy. , . .
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at east-south-east, and that being just contrary to
the said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the
.point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the
shore for the breach, nor to go too far off because of the
stream. -‘ i , - .
The third day,‘ in the morning, the wind having abated over-
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am a warning
to' all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to
the point, when I was not even my boat’s length from the shore,
but I found myself in a great depth of water and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it with
' such violence that all'I could do could not keep her so much
as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me'farther and
farther out from the eddy, which was on my left hand. There
was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with my
\
In great Danger at Sea. . 125
paddles signied nothing: And now I began to give myself
over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island,
'I knew in a few. leagues’ distance they must join again, and
then I was irrecoverably gone. Nor did I see any possibility.
of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing—not by the sea, for,that was calm enough, but of
starving from hunger. I had, indeed found atortoise on the
shore as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the
' boat; and I had a great jar of esh water—that is to say, one
of my earthen pots ; but what was all this to being driven into
the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main-
land or island, for a thousand leagues at least? ' '
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse.
Now I looked back upon my desolate solitary island as the
most pleasant place in the world,‘and all the happiness my
heart could wish for was to be but there again. I stretched
out myhands to it with eager wishes. “ 0 happy desert,” said
I, “ I shall never see thee more! 0 miserable creature,
whither am I going !” Then I reproached myself with my
unthankful temper, and that I had repined at my solitary con- '
dition; and now what would I give to be on shore there again.
Thus we never see the true state of our condition till it is
illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know how to value what we
enjoy but by the want of it. ' It is scarcely possible to imagine '
the consternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved
island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean
ahnost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recover-
ing it again. However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength
was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the north-
wardé-that is, towards the side of the current which the eddy
lay on—as possibly I could; when about noon, as the sun
' passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of- wind in
my face, springing up from south-south-east. This cheered my
heart a little, and especially when in about half-an-hour more
it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I had got at a
frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloud of
-hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way too;
for I had no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island if I had but once lost
sight of it. But the weather continuing clear, I applied myself
to get up my mast again and spread my sail, standing-away to
the north as much as possible to get out'of the current. -
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some
alteration of the current was near, for where the current was
so strong the water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear, I '
found the current abate, and presently I found to the east, at
about half-a-mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks. These
rocks, I found, caused the current to part again, and as the
main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to
' I the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks,
and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north
west with a-very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going
to murder them, or who have been in such extremities, may
guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I
put my boat into the stream of this eddy,'and the wind also
freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheer-
fully before the wind, with a strong tide or eddy underfoot.
This eddy carried me about a' league in my way back again
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the
northward than the current which carried me away at rst ; so
that when I came near the island I found myself open to the
northern shore of it—that is to say, the other end of the island
opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league of way by
the help of this current or eddy, I found it was Spent, and -
served me no farther. However, I found that being between
the two great currents—viz., that on the south side, which had
hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other side ; I say, between these two, in the wake
of the island, I found the water at least still and running no.
way ; and having still a breeze of wind fair fer me, I kept on
steering directly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before. . .
About four o’clock in the evening, being then within about.
a league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is described before,
Gets a Land again. 127
to the southward, and casting off the current more southerly,
had of course made another eddy to the north; and this I
found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course .
lay, which was due west, but almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy slanting north-
west, and in about an hour came within about a mile of the
'shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the‘shore in
a little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid .me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue
of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures; so I re—
solved next morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there Was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her.
In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed
till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a
very convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here
I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore
to look about me and see where I was. ' ‘ ~
' I soon found I had but‘a little passed by the place where II
had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for
it was exceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
~ and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it ; 'forI always kept it in good
order, being, as I said before, my country house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest
my limbs, for I Was weary, and fell asleep. But judge you, if
7 you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in When
I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my
name several times, “ Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe 3 poor Robin
- Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where» are you?
I Where have you been?”
I was so dead asleep at rst, being fatigued with roWing, or
paddling as it is called, the rst part of the day, and with
walking the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly 3 but
dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me. But as the voice continued to repeat,
“ Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe,” at last I began to wake more
perfectly, and was at rst dreadfully frightened, and started up
in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were my eyes
I open but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and
immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for just in
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him, and teach
him 3 and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon
my nger and lay his bill close to my face and cry, “Poor
Robin Crusoe ! Where are you? Where have you been?
How came you here ?” and such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature
. got thither; and then how he should just keep about the place
and nowhere else. But as I was well satised it could be
nobody but honest Poll, I got over it 3 and holding out my
hand, and calling him by his ' name, “ Poll,” the sociable
creature came to me and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do,
and continued talking to me, “ Poor Robin Crusoe !” and
“How did I come here?” and “Where had I been?” just as
if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him
home along with me.
' I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and
had enough to do for many days to sit still and reect upon
the danger I had been in. I would have been very glad to have
had my boat again on my side of the island 3 but I knew not
how it was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of
the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way 3 my very heart would shrink and
my very blood run chill but to think of it. _And as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it might be there;
a
Lz'oes quietly at Home. 129
but supposing'the current ran with the same force against the
shore at the west as it passed by it on the other, I might run
the same risk of being driven down the stream and carried by
- the island, as I had been before of being carried away from it;
so with these thoughts I contented myself to be without any
boat, though it had been the product of so many months’ labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year,
and lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose ;
and my thoughts being very much composed as to my condi-
tion, and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions
of Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in all
things, 'except that of Society. '
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises
which my necessities put me upon applying myself to, and-I
believe I should, upon occasion, have made a very good car-
penter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
' earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with a
wheel, which I found innitely easier and better; because I
made things round and shaped which before were lthy things
indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain of my 4
own performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe. And though it was
a very ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and only burned
red like other earthenware, yet, as it was hard and rm and
would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it;
for I had been always used to smoke, and there were pipes in
the ship, but I forgot them at rst, not knowing that there was
tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship
again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware also I improved much, and made abun-
dance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed
me. Though not very handsome, yet they were such as were
very handy and convenient for laying things up in or fetching
things home. For example, if I killed a goat abroad I could
hang it up in a tree, ay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and
bring it home in' a basket; and the like by a turtle—I could
cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the esh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home in a basket,
K
and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep baskets were
the receivers of my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as
it was dry, and cured and kept it in great baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably:
this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and
I began seriously to consider what I must do when I should
have no more powder—that is to say, how I should kill any
, goats. I had, as is observed in the third year of my being
here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in
hopes of getting a he-goat; but I could not by any means
bring it to pass till my kid grew an old goat; and as I could
never nd in my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as
I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study
some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I could
not catch some of them alive ; and particularly I wanted a she-
goat great with yormg. For this purpose I made snares to
hamper them, and I do believe they were more than once taken
in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and
I always found them broken and my bait devoured. At length
I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug several large pits in the
earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to feed ;
and over those pits I placed hurdles of my own making too,
with a great weight upon them. And several times I' put ears
of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap ; and I could
easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn,
for I could see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning I found them
all standing, and yet the bait eaten and' gone. This was very
discouraging. However, I altered my traps ; and not to trouble
you with particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I
found in one of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the
others three kids—a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was
so erce I durst not go into the pit to him—that is to say, to
bring him aWay alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer
my end. So I even let him out, and he ran 'away as if he had
been frightened out of his wits. _‘ But I did not then know
I what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tame a lion. If I
‘ Makes Enclosure for Goats. 131
had let him stay there three or four days without food, and
then have carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids ; for they
are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures where they are well
used. _ I
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at
that time. Then I went to the three kids, and taking them
one by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some
difculty brought them all home.
It was a good While before they would feed ; but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be
tame. And now I found that if I expected to supply myself
with goats’ esh when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only way; when, perhaps, I might have
them about my house like a ock of sheep. But then it
occurred to me that I must keep the tame from the wild, or
else they would always run wild when they grew up. And
the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of
ground, well fenced either with hedgeor pale, to keep them in
so effectually that those within might not break out, or those
without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands. Yet,
as I saw there was an absolute necessity for doing'it, my rst
work was to nd out a proper piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink,
and cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very
little contrivance when I pitched upon a place very proper for
all these, being a plain open piece of meadow land or savannah
(as our people call it in the western colonies), which had two
or three little drills of fresh water in it, and at _one end was
very woody ; I say they will smile at my forecast, when I shall
tell them I began by enclosing this piece of ground in such a
manner that my hedge or pale must have been at least two
miles about! Nor was the madness of it so great as to the
compass, for if it was ten miles about I was like to have time
enough to do it in. But I did not consider that my goats
would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the-
whole island, and I should have so much room to chase them
in that I should never catch them. ' i '
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fty
yards when this thought occurred 'to me. So I presently
stopped short, and for the beginning I resolved to enclose a
piece of about one hundred and fty yards in length and one
hundred yards in breadth 3 which, as it would maintain as many
as I should have in any reasonable time, so as my ock in-
creased I could add more ground to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the rst
piece 3 and till I had done it I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible,
to make them familiar ; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand; so that after my enclosure was nished and I
let them loose they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of corn. ~
This answered my end, and in about a year and a_half I had
a ock of about twelve goats—kids and all 3 and in two years
more I had three-and-forty—besides several that I took and
killed for my food. After that I enclosed ve several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive them into, to
take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another. '
But this was not all 3 for now I not only had goats’ esh to
feed on when I pleased, but milk too—a thing which indeed
in the beginning I did not so much as think of, and which,
when it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable sur-
prise. For now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon
or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies
of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make
use of it, so 'I, that had never milked a cow, much less \a goat,
or seen butter or cheese made, very readily and handily, though
after a great many essays and miscarriages, made bothbutter
and cheese at last, and never wanted them afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat His creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be over-
whelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the bitterest
providences, and give us cause to praise Him for dungeons and
prisons! What a table was here spread for me in the wilder-
ness, where I saw nothing at rst but to perish for hunger!
Family Dinners. 133
It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island. I had the lives of all my
subjects at my absolute command—I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended by
my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the
only person permitted to talk to me. My dog—who was now
~~ I .\'"=-' g-‘=,.


AT DINNER \VITH MY FAMILY.
grown very old and crazy, and had found no species to multiply
his kind upon—sat always at my right hand; and two cats,
one on one side of the table and one on the other, expecting
now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of especial
favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at rst—for they were both of them dead, and had been
interred near my habitation by my own hand ; but one of them
having multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these
were two which I had preserved tame, whereas the rest run
wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at
last—for they would often come into my house, and plunder
me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many; at length they left me. With this attendance
and in this plentiful manner I lived. Neither could I be said.
to want anything but society; and of that, some time after
this, I was likely to have much
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards;
and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about
the island, and at other times I sat myself down contented
.enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island where, as I have
said, in my last ramble I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay and how the current set, that I might see what I had to do.
This inclination increased. upon me every day, and at length I
resolved to travel thither by land, following the edge of the
shore. I did so ; but had any one in England met such a man
as I was, it must either have frightened him or raised a great
deal of laughter. And as I frequently stood still to look at
myself, I could not but smileat the notion of my travelling
through Yorkshire with such an equipage and in such a dress.
Bepleased to take a sketch of‘my gure, as follows :—
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat’s skin, with
a ap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me
as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck—nothing
being so hurtful in theselclimates as the rain upon the esh
under'the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat’s skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs, and a pair of open-
kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were made of the
skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length on
either side, that like pantaloons it reached to the middle of my
legs ; stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair
of somethings, I scarce knew what to call them, like buskins,
to ap over my legs and lace on either side like spatter-dashes,
but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my clothes. ‘ .
I had 'on a broad belt of goat’s skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles, and
in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a sword
H is Dress and A ppearanee. 135
and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on one side
and one on the other. I had another belt not so broad, and
fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder;
and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat’s skin too, in one of which hung my powder,
in .the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, and
on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a great clumsy,
ugly, goat-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me next to my gun. As for my
face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as one
might expect from'a man not at all careful of it, and living
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had
once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufcient, I had cut it '
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, .such as I
had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee ; for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did. Of these moustachios or
whiskers I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat
upon them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as in England would have passed for
frightful. .
But all this is by-the-bye. For as to my gure, I had so
few to observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence;
so I say no more of that. In this kind of dress I Went my
new journey, and was out ve or six days. I travelled rst .
along the seashore, directly to the place where I rst brought
my boat to an anchor to get upon the rocks; and having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer Way to
the same height that I was upon before; when looking forward
to the points of the rocks which lay out, and which I was
obliged to double with my boat, as is said above, I was sur-
prised to see the sea all smooth and quiet—no rippling, no
motion, no current any more there than in any other places. ' I
was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend
some time in the observing of it, to see if nothing from the I
sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently con- ,
vinced how it was—via, that the tide of ebb setting from the ‘
west, and joining With the current of waters from some great
river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current, and
that, according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
I or from the north, this current came nearer or went farther
from the shore. For waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again; and then the tide of ebb being made, I
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther
off, being near half-a-league from the shore 3 whereas in my
case it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe
along with it, which at another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but
to observe the ebbing and the owing, of the tide, and I might
very easily bring my boat about the island again. But when I
began to think of putting it in practice, I had such terror upon
my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been in
that I could not think of it again with any patience. But, on
the contrary, I took up another resolution, which wasrmore
safe, though more laborious 3 and this was, that I would build,
or rather make, me another periagua or canoe, and so have one
for one side of the island and one for the other.
You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island—one my little fortication or tent,
with the wall about it under the. rock, with the cave behind
me, which by this time I had enlarged into several apartments
or caves, one within another. One of these, which was. the
driest and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortication—that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock—was all lled up with the large earthen pots of which
I have given an account, and with fourteen or fteen great
baskets, which would hold ve or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provisions, especially my corn, some in
the ear out o' short from the straw, and the other rubbed out
with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles,
those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown
so big, and spread so very much, that there was not the
East appearance to any one’s view of any habitation behind
' em. -
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land,
which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly
yielded me their harvest in its season 3 and whenever I had
I _ J ' ‘ \ 0 a
n oarzous Possesszons. - 137
occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoining as t as
that.
Besides this I had my country seat, and I had now a toler-
able plantation there also ; for rst, I had my little bower, as I
called it, which I kept in repair—that is to say, I kept the
hedge which encircled it in constantly tted up to its usual
height, the ladder standing always in the inside. I kept the
trees, which at rst were no more than stakes, but were now
grown very rm and tall—I kept them always so out that
they might spread and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my mind.
In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piecepf a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and
which never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this
I had made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures
I had killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on
them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved,
and a great watch-coat to cover me. And here, whenever I
had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my
country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my‘cattle—that is
to say, my goats; and I had taken an inconceivable deal of
pains to fence and enclose this ground. I was so anxious to
see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that I
never left off till, with innite labour, I had stuck the outside
of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room
to put a hand through between them; which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they did in the next rainy season, made
the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared
no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my
comfortable support ; for I considered the keeping up a breed
of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine
of esh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in
the place, if it were to be forty years ; and that keeping them
in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my
enclosures to such a degree that I might be sure of keeping.
them- together; which by this method indeed I so effectually
secured, that when these little stakes began to grow, I had
planted them so very thick that I was forced to pull some of
them up again.
In this place, also, I had my grapes growing, which I prin-
cipally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which
I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet ; and indeed they were not
only agreeable but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
freshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other habitation
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed
and lay here in my way thither ; for I used frequently to visit
my boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to her in
very good order. Sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely
ever above a stone’s cast or two from the shore, I was so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the
currents or winds or any other accident. But now I come to
a new scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man’s naked foot
on the shore, which was very plain to be seen on the sand I
stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition.
I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing nor
see anything. I went up to a rising ground to look farther. I
went up the shore and down the shore, but it was all one; I _
could see no other impression but that one. I went to it again
to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might not be
my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the print of a foot-toes, heel, and every part of a foot. _
How it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the least
imagine ; but after innumerable attering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my I
fortication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but
terried to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
- stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe
how many various shapes my a’righted imagination represented
things to me in; how many wild ideas were found every
moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable whim-
seys came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever
after this, I ed into it like one pursued. Whether I went
over by the ladder as rst contrived, or went in at the hole in
the rock which I called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor
could I remember the next morning ; for never frightened hare
ed to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I
to this retreat; '
I slept none that night. The farther I was from the occasion
of my fright the greater my apprehensions were, which is
something contrary to the nature of such things, and especially ,
to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was so
embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing that I
formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though
I was now a great way off. Sometimes I fancied it must be
the devil ; and reason joined in with me in this supposition, for ,
. how should any other thing in human shape come into the ‘
place? Where was the vessel that brought them? What
marks were there of any other footstep‘i ‘And how was it
possible a man should come there? But then, to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it but to leave
the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose
too, for he could not be sure I should see it; this was an
amusement the other way. I considered that the devil might
have found out abundance of other waysto have terried me
than this of the single print of a foot ; that, as I lived quite on
the other side of the island, he would never have been so
simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand
to one whether I should ever see it or not; and in the sand
too, which the rst surge of the sea upon a high wind would
have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the
thing itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of
the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out
of all apprehensions of its being the devil And I presently
concluded then that it must be some more dangerous creature
—viz., that it must be some of the savages of the mainland
opposite, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and
either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea 3 being as loath perhaps to have stayed in this desolate
island as I would have been to have had them.
While these reections were rolling in my mind, Iwas very
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in that place, and perhaps have searched farther for me.
Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their
having found out my boat, and that there were people here;
and that if so, I should certainly have them come again in
greater numbers and devour me 3 that if it should'happen that
they should not nd me, yet they would nd my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my ock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want. ,
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that former
condence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful I
experience as I had had of His goodness, had vanished 3 as if
He that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve by
His power the provision which He had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that would
not sow any more corn one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to prevent
my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and this I
thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have
two or three years’ corn beforehand 3 so that whatever might
come I might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of
man! and by what secret differing springs are the affections
hurried about, as differing circumstances present! To-day we
love what to-morrow we hate 3 to-day we seek what to-morrow
we shun 3 to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even
tremble at the apprehension of. This was exemplied in me
at this time in the most lively manner imaginable 3 for I,
whose only afiction was that I seemed banished from human
society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean,
cut off from mankind, and condemned to what I called silent
life—that I was one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be
numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of
His creatures 3 that to have seen one of .my own species would '
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the
Fears and Perplexz'tz'es. ’ 141
greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme
blessing of salvation, could bestow. I say that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was
‘ ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent ap-
pearance of a man having set his foot in the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life. And it afforded me
a great many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a
little recovered my rst surprise. I considered that this was
the station of life the innitely wise and good providence of
God had determined for me ; that as I could not foresee what
the ends of Divine wisdom might be in all this, so I Was not
to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature, had an
undoubted right by creation to govern and dispose of me abso-
lutely as He thought t; and who, as I was a creature who
had offended Him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn
me to what punishment He thought t; and that it was my
part to submit to bear His indignation, because I had sinned
against Him. I then reected that as God, who was not only
righteous but omnipotent, as He had thought t thus to punish
and afict me, so He was able to deliver me: that if He did
not think t to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign
myself absolutely and entirely to His will ; and, on the other
hand, it was my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of His daily
providence. I '
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogita-
tions on this occasion I cannot omit. One morning early,
lying in my bed, and lled with thoughts about my danger
from the appearance of savages, I found it discompose me very
much ; upon which these words of the Scripture came into my
thoughts, “ Call upon me in the day of trouble : I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify me.” Upon this, rising cheerfully
out of my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was
guided and‘encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliver-
ance. When I had done praying I took up my Bible, and
opening it to read, the rst words that presented to me were,
“Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall
strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.” It is
impossible to express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least
on that occasion. _
’ In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reec-
' tions, it came into my thoughts one day that all this might be
a mere chimera of my own; and that this foot might be the
print of my own foot when I came on shore from my boat.
This cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself ~
it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own
foot; and why might I not come that way from the boat as
' well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, I considered
also that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod
and where I had not; and that if, at last, this was only the '
print of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools who
try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
ightened at them more than anybody.
’ Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again; for
I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights,
' so that I_ began to starve for provisions; for I had little or
nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water. Then
I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually
Was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in great
Pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and indeed it almost
spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk. Hearten-
ing myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but
the print of one of my own feet, and that I might be truly said
to start at myown shadow, I began to go abroad again, and
went to my country house to milk my ock. But to see with
what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me, how
I was ready every now and then to lay, down my basket and
run for my life, it would have made anyone have thought I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately
most terribly frightened; and so indeed I had. However, I
went down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I
began to be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing
in it but my own imagination. But I could not persuade
myself fully of this till I should go down to the shore again
and see this print of a foot and measure it by my own, and see
if there was any similitude or tness, that I might be assured
it was my own foot. But when I came to the place—rst, it
appeared evidently to me that when I laid up my boat I could
O
Rzkz’zknlons Resolutions. 143
not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts ; secondly,
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found
my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things lled ‘
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours
again to the highest degree ; so that I shook with cold like one
in an ague. And I went home again lled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that
the island was inhabited, and that I might be surprised before
I was aware ; and what course to take for my security I knew
not. ‘
Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed
with fear ! It deprives them of the use of those means which
reason offers for their relief. The rst thing I proposed to myself
was to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle
wild into the woods, lest the enemy should nd them, and
then frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like
booty; then to the simple thing of digging up my two corn-
elds, lest'they should nd such a grain there, and stillbe
prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of habitation,
and be prompted to look farther in order to nd out the per-
sons inhabiting. ‘ _
These were the subject of the rst night’s cogitation after I
was come home again, while the apprehensions which had so
overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full
of vapours, as above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand
times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the
- eyes ; and we nd the burden of anxiety greater bymuch than
the evil which we are anxious about; and, what was worse
than' all this, I had not that relief in this trouble that, from the
resignation I used to (practise, I hoped to have. I looked, I
thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the Philis-
tines were upon him, but that God had forsaken- him; for I
did not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to
God in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as I had
done before, for my defence and deliverance; which, if I had
done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under this
new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with more resolu-
tion.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night, but
in the morningI fell asleep, and having, by the amusement of
my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I .
slept very soundly, and waked much better composed than I
had, ever been before. And now I began to think sedately 3
and upon debate with myself, I concluded that this island,
which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and no farther
from the mainland than as .I had seen, was not so entirely
abandoned as I might imagine 3 that although there were no
stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that there might
sometimes come boats off from the shore, who, either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross
winds, might come to this place 3 that I had lived here fteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow or gure of
any people yet 3 and that, if at any time they should be driven
here, it was probable they went away again' as soon as ever
they could, seeing they had never thought t to x there upon
any occasion 3 that the most I could suggest any danger from
was, from any such casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were
driven hither, were here against their wills, so they made no
stay here, but went off again with all possible speed, seldom
staying one night on shore, lest they should not have the help
of the tides and daylight back again 3 and that, therefore, I
had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case
I should see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
came out beyond where my fortication joined to the rock.
Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
me a second fortication, in the same manner of a semicircle,
at a distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double ‘
row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made
mention. These trees having been planted so thick before,
they wanted but a few piles to be driven between them that
they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would be ‘
soon nished. So that I had now a double wall, and my
outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
everything I could think of to make it strong 3 having in it
seven little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at.
In the inside of this I thickened my wall to above ten feet thick,
with continually bringing earth out of my cave and laying it at
the foot' of the wall and walking Upon it; and through the
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took
notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship; these, I
say, I planted like my cannon, and tted them into frames that
held them like a carriage, so that I could re all the seven.
guns in two minutes’ time. This wall I was many a weary
month in nishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it
was done. .
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall,
for a great length every way, as full with stakes or sticks of
the osier-like wood, which I found solapt to grow, as they
could well stand ; insomuch that I believe I might set in near
twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space between
them and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they
attempted to approach my outer wall .
Thus in two years’ time I had a thick grove, and in ve or
six years’ time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so
monstrously thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly
impassable, and no men, of what kind soever, would ever
imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a habita-
tion.' As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and
out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to
a part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another ladder upon that; so when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to
me‘ without doing himself mischief; and if they had come
down, they were. still on the outside of my outer wall. -
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest
for my own preservation; and it will be seen at length that
they were not altogether without just reason, though I fore-
saw nothing at that time more than my more fear suggested to
me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my ‘
other affairs ; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats. They were not only a present supply to me
upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without
the expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue
of hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the
L
advantage of them, and to have them all- to nurse up over
again. .
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of
but two ways to preserve them: one was, to nd another con-
venient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night ; and the other was to enclose two or three
little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half-a-doze'n
young goats in each place; so that, if any'disaster happened
to the ock in general, I might be able to raise them again
. with little trouble and time. And this, though it would
require a good deal of time and labour, I thought was the most
rational design. ’ '
Accordingly, I spent some time to nd out the most retired
-parts of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as
private indeed as my heart could wish for. It was a little
damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land—near three
acres—so surrounded with woods that it was almost an
enclosure by nature; at least, it‘did not want near so much
labour to make it so as the other piece of ground I had werked
so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground ; and
in less than a month’s time I had so fenced it round that my
ock or herd, call it which you please, which were not so wild
now as at rst they might be supposed to he, were well enough
secured in it. So, without .any further delay, I removed ten
young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece : and when they
were there I continued to perfect the fence till I had made it as
secure as the other ; which, however, I did at more leisure, and
it took- me up more time by a great deal. All this labour I
was at the expense of, purely from my apprehensions on the
account of the print of a man’s foot which I had seen ; for as yet
I had never seen any human creature come near the island, and
I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which
indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was before,
as may be well imagined by any who know what it is to live
in the constant snare of the fear of man. And this I must
Frzjqktenea'. again. I . ' 147
observe with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind had
too great ‘ impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts ; for the dread and terror of falling into the hands of
savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom
found myself in a due temper for application to my Maker—
at least, not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul
which I was wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under
great afiction and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, ,
and in expectation every night of being murdered and devoured
before morning. And I must testify, from my experience, that
a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and affection is much
the more proper frame for prayer than that of' terror and dis-
composure; and that, under the dread of mischief impending,
a man is no more t for a comforting performance of the duty
of praying to God than he is for repentance on a sick-bed: for
these discomposures affect the mind as the others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great
a disability as that of the body, and much greater; praying to
God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body. ,
But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island searching for
another priVate place to make such another deposit, when,
wandering more to the west point of the island than I had ever
done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon
the sea at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen’s chests which I saved out of our
ship, but I had it not about me; and this was so remote that
I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till
' my eyes were not able to hold _to look any longer. Whether
. it was a boat or not I do not know; but as I descended from
the hill I could see no more of it; so I gave it over—only I
resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in my
pocket. When I was come down the hill to the end of the
island—where, indeed, I ,had never been before—I was pre-'
sently convinced that the seeing the print of a man’s foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined. And but
that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the 'side
of the island where the savages never came, —I should easily
have known that nothing was more frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too
far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour 3 likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes,
the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them over
to this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being
all cannibals, they would kill and eat them 3 of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above,
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded‘and amazed—nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind—at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies 3 and particularly
1‘ observed a place where there had been a re made, and a
circle dug in the, earth like a cockpit, where I supposed the
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow-creatures. '
I‘was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I
entertained no notion of any danger to myself from it for a
long while. All my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a‘pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror
’ - of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had heard
of it often, yet I never had so near a view of before. In short,
~I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle : my stomach
grew sick, and I was just on the point of fainting, when Nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach 3 and having vomited
with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not
bear to stay in the place a moment. So I got up the hill
again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my
own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still awhile as amazed 3 and then, recovering myself, I looked
up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a ood of
tears in my eyes, gave God thanks that had cast my rst lot in ’
a part of the world where I was distinguished from such
dreadful creatures as these 3 and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so many
comforts in it that I had still more to give thanks for than to
complain of 3 and this above all, that I had, even in this miser-
able condition, been comforted with the knowledge of
Himself and the hope of His blessing—which was a felicity
more than sufciently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered or could suffer. ‘ j
...- . ........a - . . _. _ ..
v or! a a. . . ~ . . . . . 7 .
- . ...I4, a . _. ~ 0 . i s i . .1
>__' i O . .1’ v . I 1 ~,
J . . . _ . .
:1..." . a n . . .-
. .. .i . r. . . , u . v _ . Q _.s
A . .. .<.. c 2. .0 . _ \ v . e l s c .
V a \._ o I. . - _ .. 1
. _..1171 I v
u\ ..:. . . ~ . . _. w
. . ._ _ s a I
v .-.w -. v . . a . .
V» II 1 1 ' ull
.r 1 0 _ -
\ 0 1v .
l b
. .. .
I
ix, -
. i a -
z i
.. 1
_ .
..
, l
.
. .4» v
-
n
.‘
I. 4 .
v. .
. i i
e .
m 5
_
.
1
~
~. .
a
i
.
M
..
I
'4
..
_ .a. .
vi. \
+4; 1 _
. \1 ~.
-.o_\ i . . .
_.- a z.
r _. s .
s: d . _
I), .
*1: .
_.n
1.. a ..
.7 .
_¢> » -.
I
.l4 q
1.. . s
u
A a .
4
.
.
\
!
Q a
.
I.
I
r! - .
v
_
. .
s
.
A .
ws_a
f.
e
V D
_ .
e o
.
a I
.- ,1 ~
_- I
i.
.-
rs ..
.
1.“ .
Ar.
‘-
'
5
1.. | .
_
. 0 v -
.v \ ll
.. 1 _ . . . I
_
t I I
I Q
Q 4
. . I
‘0. ‘
E SHORE SPREAD \VITII SKULLS.

.- -____.4 -._._ -_


\
SEEING TH
_ ’
v
\.
e
01'
..
i
i
u
.
..
.
'1
.
4.
>
.i.
. .
a. . .
. s.
.. ..
> .
.
u
a
\
_
s
i 4
n
s
.
\

Thankful ana’ Resz'gnea’. I 149
In this frame of thankfulness‘I went home to my castle, and
began to be much easier now as to the safety of my circum-
stances than ever I was before; for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island search of what they could
get—perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting any-
thing here, and having often, no doubt, been up the covered
woody parts of it without nding anything to their purpose. I
knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never
saw the least footsteps of human creature there before; and I
might be here eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I did not discover myself to them, which I had no
manner of occasion to do ; it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better
sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman
custom of their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own
circle for almost two years after this. When I say my own
circle, I mean by it my three plantations—via, my castle, my
country seat (which I called my bower), and my enclosure in
the woods. Nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which Nature
gave me to these hellish wretches was such that I was as
fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil himself. Nor did
I so much as go to look after my boat all this time, but began
rather to think of making another; for I could not think of
ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round
the island to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures
at sea; in which case, if I had happened to have fallen into
their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear o
my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the ,
same composed manner as before—only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen' by any of
them ; and, particularly, I was more cautious of ring my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to hear it.
It was therefore a very good providence to me that I had
' furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, and that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them 3 and
if I did catch any of them after this, it was by traps and snares,
as I had done before : so that for two years after this I believe
I never red my gun once off, though'I never went out with-
out it. And, what was more, as I had saved three pistols out
of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at least two
of them, sticking them in my goatskin belt. I also furbished
up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and
made me a belt to hang it on also 3 so that I was now a most
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to
- the former description of myself the particular of two pistols,
and a great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but
without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed,
excepting these cautions, to be,reduced to my former calm,
sedate way of living. All these things tended to show me
more and more how far my condition was from being miserable,
' compared with some others 3 nay, to many other particulars of
life which it might have pleased God to have made my lot. It
put me upon reecting how little repining there would be
among mankind at any condition of life, if people would rather
compare their condition with those that were worse, in order
to be thankful, than be always comparing them with those which
are better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the frights I
had been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had
been in for my own preservation, had taken off the edge of my
invention for my own conveniences 3 and I had dropped a good - '
design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much upon,
and that was to try if I could not make some of my barley into
malt, and then try to brew myself some beer. This was really
a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently‘ saw there would be the want
of several things necessary t "- the making my beer, that it
would be impossible for me tisupply. As, rst, casks to pre-
serve it in; which was a thing that, as I have observed already,
'I could never compass—n6, though I spent not only many
days, but weeks, nay months, attempting it, but to no pur-
\“\.\ _
How to hill the Savages. _ i .151
- pose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep, no
yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil. '
And yet, all these things notwithstanding, I verily believe, had
not the frights and terrors I was in about the savages inter-
vened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too ;
for I seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it,
when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my invention
now ran quite another way; for night and day I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters in
their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring here to destroy. It would take up a
larger volume than this whole work is intended to be to set
down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in
my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, [or at least
frighten them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.
But all was abortive ': nothing could be possible to take effect
unless I was to be there to do it myself. And what could one
man do among them when perhaps there might be twenty or
thirty of them together, with their darts or their bows and
arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I
could with my gun? '
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place
where they made their re, and putting in ve or six pounds
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their re, would con-
sequently take re, and blow up all that was near it. But as,
in the rst place, I should be unwilling to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity of
one barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at any
certain time, when it might surprise them, and at best, that it
would do little more than just blow the re about their ears
and frighten them, but not sufcient to make them forsake
the place. So I laid it aside, and then proposed that 'I would
place myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my
three guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let y at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and then, falling
_ in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no
doubt but that if there were twenty I should kill them all.
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so
full of it that I often dreamed of ' it, and sometimes that I was
just going to let y at them in my sleep. 1 went so far with '
it in my imagination that I employed myself several days to
nd out proper places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said,
to watch for them ; and I went frequently to the place itself,
which was now grown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus lled with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody
putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call
it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the bar—
barous wretches devouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I founda place in the side of the hill, where I
was satised I might securely wait till I saw any of their
boats coming, and might then, even before they would be ready
to come on shore, convey myself unseen into some thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to con-
ceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe all their
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when they
were so close together as that it would be next to impossible
that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding three
or four of them at the rst shot. In this place, then, I resolved
to_ full my design; and accordingly I prepared two muskets
and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets, I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or ve smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol bullets ; and the fowling-piece I loaded
with near a handful of swan-shot of the largest size; I_also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and in this
posture, well provided with ammunition for a second and third
charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.
After I had thus ~laid the scheme of my design, and in my
imagination put it in practice, I continually made my tour every
morning to the top of the hill—which was from my castle, as I
called 'it, about three miles or more—to see if I could observe
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island or standing over
towards it. But I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had
for two or three months constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery, there having not in all that
time been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore,
but on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glass could reach
every way.
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so
long also-I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous
an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages for
an offence which I had not at all entered into a discussion of
in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were at rst red
by the horror I conceived 'at the unnatural custom of the
people of that country, who, it seems, had been suffered by
Providence, in His wise disposition of the world, to have no
other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated '
passions ; and consequently were left, and perhaps had been so
for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
15:3
dreadful customs, as nothing but Nature, entirely abandoned of
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have
run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long and
so far every morning in vain, so'my opinion of the action itself
began to alter, and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, .
to consider what I was going to engage in—what authority or
call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought t for so many
ages to suffer unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the
executioners of His judgments one upon another; how far.
these people were offenders against me, and what right I had
to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed pro-
miscuously one upon another. I debated this very often with
myself thus: “How do I know what God Himself judges in
this particular case? It is certain these people do not commit
this as a crime ; it is not against their own consciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them. They do not
know it to be an offence, and then commit it in deance of
divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit.
They think it'no more a crime, to kill a captive taken in war
than we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human esh than we do
to eat mutton. ” ' ,
When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong in it ; that these people were '
not murderers, in the sense that I had before condemned them
in my thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers
who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle,- or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to
the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down
their armsand submitted. In the next place, it occurred to
me, that although the usage they gave one another was thus
brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these
people had done me no injury. That if they attempted me, or
I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to fall upon
them, something might be said for it 3 but that I was yet out
of their power, and they really had no knowledge of me, and“
consequently no design upon me, therefore it could not be just
for me to fall upon them. That this would justify the conduct
of the Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in America,
where they destroyed millions of these people 3 who, however
they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several bloody and
barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacricing human
bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the country
is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by
even the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and by all other
Christian nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustiable either to God or man,
and such as for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned
to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity or of
Christian compassion 3 as if the kingdom of Spain were par-
ticularly eminent for the production of a race of men who were
without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity
to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous
temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind
of a full stop 3 and I began by little and little to be off my
\design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my
resolution to attack the savages 3 and that it was net my
business to meddle with them, unless they rst attacked me,
andthis it was my business if possible to prevent 3 but that, if
I were discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself that this really was
the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy
myself 3 for unless I was sure to kill every one that not only
Should be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on
shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their
country-people what had happened, they would come over again
by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should
Leaves Yudgment to God. I ' 155 i
only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present
I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that I ought, neither in prin-
ciple nor in policy, one way or other, to concern myself in this
affair; that my business was by all possible means to conceal
myself from them, and not to leave the least sign for them to
guess by that there were any living creatures upon the island—
I ‘mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this pru—
dential resolution ; and I Was convinced now, many ways, that
I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying all my
bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures—I
mean innocent as to me. Asvto the crimes they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them; they were
national, and I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who '
is the Governor of nations, and knows how by national punish-
ments to make a just retribution for national offences, and to
bring public judgments upon those who offend in a public
manner, by such ways as best please Him. This appeared so
clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me
than that I had not been suffered to do 'a thing which I now
saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin
than that of wilful murder, if. I had committed it; and I gave
most humble thanks on my knees to God, that He had thus
delivered me from blood-guiltiness ; beseeching Him to grant
me the protection of His providence, that I might not fall into
the hands of the barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands
upon them, unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do
it, in defence of my own life. -
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the
111.11 to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know
whether any of them had been on shore there or not, that I
might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked by any advantage that might present
1tself to fall upon them ; only this I did—I went and removed
my _boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I
ran it into a little cove which I found under some high rocks,
and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not, come with their boats upon any account
whatsoever. '
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare going
thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had made for her, and a
thing-like an anchor, but which indeed could not be called
either anchor or grapling ; however, it was the best I could
make of its kind. All these I removed, that there might not
be the least shadow for discovery, or appearance of any boat,
or of any human habitation upon the island. Besides this, I
kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom went
from my cell, other than upon my constant employment, viz.,
to milk my she-goats, and manage my little ock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was out
of danger; for certain "it is that these savage people, who some-
times haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of
nding anything here, and. consequently never wandered off
from the coast, and I doubt not but they might have been
several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before. Indeed, I looked back
with some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition
would have been, if I had chopped upon them and been dis-
covered before that, when, naked and unarmed, except with one
gun, and that loaded often only with small shot, I walked every-
where, peeping and peering about the island to see what I could
get. What‘a surprise should I have been in, if, when I dis-
covered the print of a man’s foot, I had instead of that seen
fteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and,
by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping
them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul within
me, and distressed my mind so much that I could not soon
recover it, to think what I should have done, and how I should
_not only have been unable to resist them, but even should not
have had presence of mind enough to do what I might have
done, much less what now, after so much consideration and
preparation, I might be ,able to do. Indeed, after serious
thinking of these things, I would be very melancholy, and
sometimes it would last a great while ; but I resolved it all at
last into thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered
T nougnts on Providence. 157
me from so many unseen dangers, and had kept me from those
inischiefs which I could have no way been the agent in de-
livering myself from, because I had notthe least notion of any
such thing depending, or the least supposition of its being
possible. This renewed a contemplation which often had come
into my thoughts in former times, when rst I began to see the
merciful dispositions of Heaven in the dangers we run through
in this life ; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know
nothing of it : how, when we are in a quandary, as we call it,
a doubt or hesitationwhether to go this Way ’or that way, a
secret hint shall direct us this way when we intended to go that
way; nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps
business, has called us to go the other way, yet a strange
impression upon the mind, from we know not what springs,
and by we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this
way ; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gone that way
which we should have gone, and even to our imagination ought
to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon
these and many like reections, I afterwards made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever I found those secret hints‘ or
pressings of my mind to doing or not doing anything that
presented, or to going this way or that way, I never failed to
obey the “secret dictate, though I knew no other reason for it
than that such a pressure or such a hint hung upon my mind.
I could give many examples of the success of this conduct in
the course of my life, but more especially in the latter part of
my inhabiting this unhappy island, besides many occasions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had
seen with the same eyes then that I see with now. - But it is
never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all con-
sidering' men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to
slight such secret intimations of Providence, let them come
from what invisible intelligence they will. That I shall not
discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly they are
a proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret communication
between those embodied and those unembodied, and such a
proof as can never be withstood : of which I shall have occasion
to give some very remarkable instances in the remainder of my
solitary residence in this dismal place. -
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in,
and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to all in-
vention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid for my
future accommodations and conveniences. I had the care of
my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food. I
cared not to drive a nail or chop a stick of wood now, for fear
the noise I might make should be heard 3 much less would I
re-a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I was intolerably
uneasy at making any re, lest the smoke, which is visible at a
' great distance in the day, should betray me. For this reason,
I removed that part of my business which required re, such .
as burning-of pots and pipes, &c., into my new apartment in
. the woods, where, after I had been some time, I found to my
unspeakable consolation a mere natural cave in the earth, which
went in a vast way, and where, vI dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture 'in 3
nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted
nothing so much as a safe retreat. ‘ -
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock,
where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant
' reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence), I was
cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal.
And before I go on; I must obServe the reason of my making
this charcoal, which was thus :— '
I Was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I
said before 3 and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, &c. 3 so I contrived to burn some wood
here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it became
chark or dry coal, and then, putting the re out, I preserved
' the coal to carry home, 'and perform the other services for which
re was wanting, without danger of smoke.
But this is bye-the-bye. While I was cutting down some
' wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch of low
brushwood or underwood there was a kind of hollow place. I'
was curious to look into it, and getting with difculty into the
mouth ofit, I found it was pretty large; that is to say, sufcient
for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me.
But I must confess to you that I made more haste out than I'did
in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was perfectly
Terrihly Frightened ./ 159
dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil 'or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars, the
dim light from the cave’s mouth shining directly in and making
the reection. However, after some pause I recovered myself,
and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that he
that was afraid to see the devil was not t to live twenty years
in an island all alone; and that I durst believe there was nothing ~
in this cave that was more frightful than myself. Upon this,
plucking up my courage, I took up a great rebrand, and in I
rushed again with the stick aming in my hand. ‘I had not
gone three steps in, before I was almost as much frightened as
before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man 'in‘
some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words
half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into
. a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not
answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off I But
still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging
myself a little with considering that the power and presence of
God was everywhere, and was able to protect me, I stepped
forward again, and by the light of the rebrand, holding it up
_ a little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most
monstrous frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we
say, and gasping for life, and dying indeed of more old age. I
stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed
to get up, but was notable to raise himself; and I thought
~ with myself he might even lie there, for if he had- frightened
'me, so he would certainly frighten any of the savages, if any one
of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he had
any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look _
round me, when I found the cave was but very small ; that is
' to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of
shape, neither round nor square, no hands having ever been
employed in making it but those of mere Nature. I observed
also that there was a place at the farther side of it that Went
in further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon my
hands and knees to go into it, and [whither it went I knew not;
so, having no candle, I gave it over for that time, but resolved '
to come again the next day, provided with candles and a tinder-
box, which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wildre in the pan. '
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making—for I made very good candles now
of goats’ tallow—and going into this low place I was obliged
to creep upon all-fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which,
by the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering
that I knew not how far it might go, ’nor what was beyond it.
'When I had got through the strait, I found the roof rose
higher up, I believe near twenty feet.‘ But never was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The walls
reected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles;
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds or any other
precious stones, or gold, which .I rather supposed it to be, I
knew not. I . ,
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of
its kind, though perfectly dark. The oor was dry and level,
and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there,
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was , ‘
there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only difculty
init was the. entrance—which, however, as it was a place of ,
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought was a con-
venience ; so that I was really'rejoiced at the' discovery, and
resolved without any delay to bring some of those things which
I was most anxious about to this place. _ Particularly, I resolved
to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare arms-
viz., two fowling-pieces, for I had three in all ; and three
muskets, for Of them I had eight in all. So I kept at my
castle only ve, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of
cannon, on my outmost-fence, and were ready also to take out
upon any expedition. '
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition I happened
to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea,
and which had been wet, and I found that the water had
penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on every
side, which, caking and grong hard, had preserved the inside
' ' like a ke'rnelin the shell, so that I had near sixty pounds of
> very good powder in the centre of the cask. This was a very
. agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all away
Gets Naturalz'sea'. ' ,161
thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of p0Wder
with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I
also carried thither all the lead I had- left for bullets. _
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who
were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here,
that if ve hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never
nd me out, or if they did, they would not venture to attack
me here. The old goat which I found expiring died in the
mouth of the cave the'next day after I made this discovery;
and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw
him in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out. So I
interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose. '
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalised to the place and t0 the manner .
of living, that, could I but have enjoyed the certainty that no
sava'ges would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, t' ‘ I had laid me down
and died, like the old goat in the cave. if I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before.
As, rst, I had taught 'my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; .
- and he did it so familiarly, and, talked so articulately and plain,
that it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no less
than six-and-twenty years. How long he might have lived-
afterwards I know not ; though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor Poll _
may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin Crusoe to this
day. I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there and hear
him; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the devil.
_My dog was avery pleasant and loving companion to me for no
less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old ,
age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to
that degree that I was obliged to shoot several of them at rst,
to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but at length,
when the two old 'Ones I brought with me were gone, and
after some time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the
woods except two 'or three favourites, which -I kept tame, and
M
' whose young, when they had any, I alwaysdrowned 3 and these
were part of my family. Besides these, I always kept two or
three household kids about me, which I taught to- feed out of
my hand 3 and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty
Well, and would all call “ Robin Crusoe,” but none like my
rst; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that
I had done with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
names I knew not, which I caught upon the shore, and cut
their wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before
my castle wall being now- grown up to a good thick grove, these
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me. So that, as I said above, I began to
' be very well contented with the life I led, if I could have been
secure from the dread of v the savages.
But it was otherwise directed 3 and it may not be amiss for
all people who shall meet with my story to make this just
observation, from it, viz., how frequently in the course of our
lives the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which,
when we are fallen into'it, is the most dreadful to us, is often-
times the very means or door of our deliverance, by which
alone we can be raised again from the afiction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the ’course of-my
. unaccountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly
remarkable than 'in the circumstances of my last years Of
solitary residence in this island. r .
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my
twenty-third year 3 and this being the southern solstice (for
_ winter I cannot call it), was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the elds: when,
going out pretty early in~ the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
re upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two- miles
toward the end of the island where I had observed some savages
had been as before; and not on the other side, but, to my great
aiiction, on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to 'go out, lest I might be
surprised 3 and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling over the
island, should nd my'corn standing or cut, or any of my works
\
The Savages at last ./ 163'
and improvements, they would immediately conclude that there
were people in the place, and would then never give ever till'
they had found me out. In this extremity I went back directly
to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defence. I lOaded all 'my cannon, as I called them—that is
to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new forti-
cation—and all my pistols, and resolved to defend‘myself to
the last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the
Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me
out of the hands of the barbarians. I continued in this posture
about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for in-'
telligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. -
After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I should do in
this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer;
so setting up my ladder 'to the side of the hill, where there was
a at place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
after me, I set it up again, .and mounted to the top of the hill,
and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken on
purpose, I laid me down at on my belly on the ground, and
began to look for the place. I presently found there were no
less than nine naked savages sitting round a small re they had
made—not to warm them, for they had no need of that, the'
weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some
of their barbarous diet of human esh which they had brought
With them, whether alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had~ hauled up
upon the shore ; and as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed
to me to wait for the return of the ood to go away again. It
is not easy to imagine what confusion this, sight - put me into,
1 especially seeing them come on my side the island, and so near
me too ; but when I considered their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more
sedate in my mind, being satised that I might go abroad with
safety all the time of the ood of tide, if they were not on ‘
shore before. And having made this observation, I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to
the westward, I saw them all take boat and row (or paddle, as
as we call it) away. I should have observed that for an hour
or more before they went off they were dancing, and I could
easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass. I could
not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were


“ r SAW THEM Au. TAKE BOAT AND ROW AWAY.”
stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them; but
whether they were men or women, that I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great
sword by my side without a scabbard, and with all the speed' I
Alarm and .Perf'leuz'ty. ' 165'
was able to make, went away to the hill where I had discovered '
the rst appearance of all ; and as soon as I got thither, which
was not in less than two hours (for I could not go apace, being
,so laden with arms as I was), I perceived there had been three
canoes more of the savages at that place; and looking out
farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over for the
main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going
down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the
dismal work they had been about had left behind it, viz., the
blood, the bones, and part of the esh of human bodies eaten
and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport. I
was so lled with indignation at the sight, that I now began to
premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let
them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
made to this island were not very frequent, for it was above
fteen months before any more of them came on shore there
again; that is to say, I neither saw them nor any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons,
then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far. Yet
all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant »
apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise; from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off
that expectation or those apprehensions.
During all this time I‘was in the murdering humour, and
spent most of my hours, Which should have been better em-
ployed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them
the very next time I should see them, especially if they should
be divided, as they were the last time, into two parties. Nor
did I consider at all that if I killed one party—suppose ten or
a dozen—I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, even ad innitum, till I should be, at
length, no less a murderer than they were in'being man-eaters,
and'perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any time
venture abroad, it was not without looking round me with the
greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to'
my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame
ock or herd of goats: for I durst not upon any account re
my gun, especially near that side of the island where they
usually came, lest I should alarm the savages 3 and if they had
ed from me now, I was sure to have them come again with
perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However, I wore out a year
and three months more before I ever saw any more of the
savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe.
It is true they might have been there once or twice, but either
they made no stay; or at least I did not see them 3 but in the '
month of May, ,as near as I could calculate, and in my four-
and~twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them;
of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind during this fteen of sixteen
months’ interval was very great. I slept unquietly, dreamed
always frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in
the night. In the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind,
and in the night I~ dreamed often of killing the savages, and of
the reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But to waive
all this for a while, it was in the middle-of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar
would reckon, for I marked all upon the post still 3 I say, it
~ was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of
\
wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and
a very foul night it was after it. I know not what was the ‘
particular occasion of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and
taken up with very serious thoughts about my present con-
dition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
red at sea. A . '
This was,to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature
from any I had met with (before; for the notions this put into
my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste imaginable, and in a trice clapped my ladder to
the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and
mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill, the very
moment that a ash of re bade me listen 'for a second gun,
which accordingly in about half-a-minute I heard, and by the
sound knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven down the current in my boat.
Another vPVrech‘. ' 167
I immediately considered that this must be some ship in dis-
tress, and that they had some comrade or some other ship in
company, and red these guns for signals of distress and to
obtain help. I had the presence of mind at that minute to
think, that though I could not- help them, it might be they _
' might help me ; so I brought together all the dry wood I could
get at hand, and making a good handsome pile, I set it on re
upon the hill. The wood was dry and'blazed freely, .and
though the wind blew very hard, yet it burned fairly out, so
that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they
must needs see it; 'and no doubt they did, for as soon as ever
my re blazed up I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter. . I plied my re all night
long, till day broke; and when it was broad day and the air
cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, full east
of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish
~I~no, not with my glass; the distance was 'so great, and the
weather still something hazy also; at least, it was so out at
sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ‘
ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be satis-
ed, I took my gun in my hand, and ran towards the south
side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly been
carried aWay with the current ; and getting up there, the
weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see,
to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the night
upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in
my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream or eddy, were the
occasion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless p
condition that ever I had been in in all 'my life. _
Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s destruction;
for it seems these men, whoever they were, being outvof their
knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had been
driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at east and
east-northeast. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must,vas I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
but their ring o“ guns for help, especially when they saw,-as‘
.s-
I imagined, my re, lled me with many thoughts. First, I
imagined that upon seeing my light they might have put
themselves into their boat, and have endeavoured to make the
shore; but that the sea running very high, they might have
been cast away. Other times I imagined that they might have
lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways, par-
ticularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which
many times obliges men to stave or take in pieces their boat,
and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own hands.
Other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in
company, who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had
taken them up and carried them off. Other times I fancied
they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried
away by the current that I had been formerly in, were carried
out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but ' misery
and perishing, and that perhaps they might by this time think
~of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition
I was in, I could do no more than look on upon the misery of
the poor men and pity them; which had still this good effect
upon my side, that it gave me more and more cause to give
thanks to God, who had so happily and comfortably provided
for me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships’ com-
panies, who were now cast away upon this part of the world,
not one life should be spared but mine. I learned here again
to observe, that it is very rare that the providence of God casts
us into any condition of life so low, or any misery so great, but
we may see something or other to be thankful for, and may see
others in worse circumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of themwere saved.
Nothing could make it rational so much as to wish or expect
, that they did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in company; and this
was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or
appearance of any such thing. -
I cannot explain by any possible energy of words what a
strange longing or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon
this sight, breaking out sometimes thus : “ Oh, that there had
been but one or two —nay, or but one soul saved out of this ship,
Longs for ocz'ety. 169
to have escaped to me, that I might but have had one com-
panion, one fellow-creature‘to have spoken to me, and to have
conversed with !” In all the tims of my solitary life I never
felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my fellow-
creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which,
when they are set agoing by some object in view, or, though -
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power of
imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence
of it is insupportable. '
Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been
saved. “ Oh, that it had been but one !” I behave I repeated
the words, “ Oh, that it had been but one !” a thousand times ;
and my desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the
words my hands would clinch together, and my ngers press
the palms of my hands, so that if I had any soft thing in my
hand, I would have crushed it involuntarily ; and the teeth in
my head would strike together, and set against one another so'
strong, that for some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and
manner of them. All I can say to them is, to describe the fact,
which was even surprising to me when I found it, though I
knew not from whence it proceeded ; it was doubtless the effect
of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in 'my mind,
realising the comfort which the conversation of one of my
fellow-Christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be. Either their fate or mine, or both,
forbade it; for till the last year of my being on this island, I /
never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no, and
had only the afiction, some days after, .to see the corpse of a
drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was
next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a seamen’s
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt ; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what
nation he was of. He had nothing in his pockets but two
pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe. The last was to me of ten
times more value than the rst. ' -
It Was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might nd some-
I
thing on board that might be useful to me. But that did not ‘
altogether press me so much as the possibility that there might '
be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might not
only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree; and this thought clung so to my heart that I
' could not be quiet night or day,*but I must venture out in my
boat on board this wreck 3 and committing the-rest to God’s
providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my
mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come from some
invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if I
did not go. - . .
Under the power of this immession I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle ‘
of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and a basket
of raisins 3 and thus, loading myself with everything necessary,
I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, got her
aoat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again
‘ for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the
I umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another large pot
of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat’s milk,
and a cheese : all which with great labour and sweat I carried
to my boat 3 and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put
' out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at
last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a distance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of
the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail
me 3 for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of those
'currents, I should be carried a great Way out to sea, and perhaps
out of my reach or sight of the island again- 3 and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I
should be inevitably lost.
- These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give
over my enterprise, and. having hauled my boat into a little
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat down upon a rising
bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and
Visits the WrechI . ' 171"
desire, about my voyage ;TWhen as I was musing, I could per-
ceive that the tide was turned, and the ood come on, upon
which my going was impracticable for so many hours. ' Upon
this, presently it occurred .to me that I should go up to the
highest piece of ground I could nd, and observe, if I could,
how the sets of the tide or currents lay when the ood came in,
that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I
might net expect to be driven another way home, with the
same rapidity of the currents. This thought was no sooner in
my head than I cast my eye upon a little hill, which
suiciently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that
as the current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, sothe current of the ood set in close by the shore of
the north side, and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the
north of the island in my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morn-
ing to set out with the rst of the tide; and reposing myself _
for the night in my canoe, under the great watch-coat I
mentioned, I launched out. I made rst a little out to sea,
full north, till I began to feel the benet of the current, which
set eastward,‘and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not
so hurry me as the current on the south side had done before,
so as to take from me all government of the boat; but having
a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it. It
was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its build-
ing was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks ; all
the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea ;
and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought '
by the board—that is to say, broken short off; but her bowsprit
was sound, and the head and bow appeared rm. When I
came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, which, Seeing me
coming, yelped and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to come to me, and I took him into the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a
' cake of my bread, and he ate it like a_ ravenous wolf that had
been starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor
’creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him,
he would have burst himself. After this I went on board;
but the rst sight I met with was two men drowned in the
cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high and
so continually over her, that the men were not able to bear it, i
and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water,
as much as if they had been under water. Besides the dog,
there was nothing left in the ship that had life ; nor any goods
that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water. There
were some casks of liquor—whether wine or brandy I knew
not—which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being
ebbed out, I could see ; but they were too big to meddle with.
- I saw several chests, which. I believe belonged to some of the
seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, without examin-
ing what was in them. .
Had the stern of the ship been xed, and the forepart broken
off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage ; for by
what I found' in these two chests, I had room to suppose the
ship had a great deal of wealth on board ; and if I may guess
7 from the course she . steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gulf of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great
treasure in her, but of no use at that time to anybody; but
what became of the rest of her people I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
, difculty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it..
As for the muskets, I had no occasion for them—so I left them ;
but took the powder-horn. I took a re-shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron. And with this
cargo and the dog I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again ; and the same evening, about an hour within night,
I reached the island again, weary and. fatigued to the last
degree. ,_ _ '
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
,2.
Articles saved front the Wreck. 173
resolved to harbour what I had got in my new cave, and not
carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all
my-cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars. The
cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we
had at the Brazils—and, in a word, not at all good; but when I
came to open the chests, I found several things of great use to
me. For example, I found in one a ne case of bottles, of an
extraordinary kind, and lled with cordial waters, ne and very
good ; the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver : I found two pots of very good succades, or sweet~
meats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled: I found some very good shirts, which were very wel—
come to me, and about a dozen and a-half of white linen hand-
kerchiefs and coloured neckcloths—the former were also very
welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a hot
day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found
there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up
in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold ; I suppose they might all weigh near apound.
The other chest I found had some clothes, but of little
value ; but by the circumstances it must have belonged to
the gunner’s mate, though there was no powder in it but about
two pounds of ne glazed powder in three small asks, kept, I -
suppose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon
the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any use
to me: for as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I~would have
given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stock-
ings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had on
my feet for many years. ‘ I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes
now, which I took off the feet of the two drowned men whom
I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair more in one of the
chests, which were very welcome to me; but they were not
like our English shoes, either for ease or service, being rather
what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman’s
chest about fty pieces of eight, in royals, but no gold. I
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which
~ seemed to belong to some ofcer. . ' -
Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave,_and
laid it up, as I had done that before which I had brought from
our own ship 3 ' but it was a great pity, as I said, that the other
part of this ship had not come to my share—for I am satised
I might have loaded my canoe several times over with money,
which, if I had ever escaped to England, would have lain here
safeenough till I might have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along
the shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made
the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found every-
thing safe and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after
my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs 3 and for a
while I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so
much3 and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
satised the savages never came, and where I could go without
so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition
, as I always carried with me if I went the other way. I lived
' in this condition near two years more. But my unlucky head,
that was always to let me know it was born to make my body
miserable, was all these two years lled with projects and
designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away from this
island : for sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me that there was nothing left
there worth the hazard of my voyage 3 sometimes for a ramble
one way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had
the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured- to
sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. _
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those
who are touched with the general plague of mankind, whence,
for aught I know, one-half of their miseries ow—I mean that
of not being satised with the station wherein God and Nature
has placed them. For, not to look back upon my primitive
condition, and the excellent advice of my father—the opposition
to which was, as I may call it, my original sin—my subsequent ‘
mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my coming
vinto this miserable condition: for had that Providence which
so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed .
His Restless Disposition. ' 17 5
me with conned desires, and I could have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time, I mean
in the time of my being in this island, one of the most“ con-
siderable planters in the Brazils. Nay, I am persuaded that,
by the improvements I had made in that little tims I lived
there, and the increase I should probably have made if I had
stayed, I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores.
And what business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn super-
cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and time would
have so increased our stock at home that we could have bought
them at our own door from those whose business it was to fetch
them? and though it had cost us something more, yet. the
difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so
great a hazard. ' .
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reection
upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise cf more years
or of the dear-bought experience of time. And so it was with
me now. And yet so deep had the mistake taken rodt in my
temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was '
continually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape
from this place. And that I may, with the greater pleasure to
the reader, bring on the remaining part of my story, it may not
be improper to give some account of my rst conceptions on
the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and
upon what foundation I acted.
I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my
late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under
water as usual, and my condition restored to what it was before.
I had more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at
' all the richer; for I had no more use for it than the Indians of
Peru had before the Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the
four-and-twentieth year of my rst setting fect in this island
of solitude. I was lying in my bed or hammock awake, very
well in health; had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness .of
body, nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary: but
could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no,
nota Wink all night long, otherwise than as follows :—
It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable
17 6 Robinson Crusoe.
“crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare
of the brain, the memory, in this night’s time. I ran over the
whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I
may call it, to my coming to this island, and also of the part
of my life since I came to this island. In my reections upon
the state of my case since I came on shore on this island, I was
comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the rst years of
my habitation here, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of a foot
in the sand. Not that I did not believe the savages had
frequented the island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on shore there; but I had
never known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about
it. My satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as'if I
had never really been exposed to it. This furnished my
_ thoughts with many very protable reections, and particularly ~
this one: How innitely good that Providence is which has
provided, in its government of mankind, such narrow bounds
to his sight and knowledge of things ; and though he walks in
the midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if
discovered to him, would distract his mind and sink his spirits,
he is kept serene and calm by having the events of things hid
from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which
surround him!
After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I
came to reect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for
so many years, in this very island, and how I had walked about
in the greatest security and with all possible tranquillity, even
when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or
the casual approach of night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction, viz., that of falling into the hands
of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on me with
the same view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour me than I did a
pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself if I should
say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility, that
all these unknown deliverances were due, and without which I
must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.
T hints of leaving the fslana’. 177
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time
taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures,
I mean the savages ; and how it came to pass in the world that
the wise Governor of all things should give up any of His
creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much below
even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind. But as this
ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it occurred
to me to enquire, what part of the world these wretches lived
in; how far off the coast was from whence they came ; what
they ventured 'over so far from home for; what kind of boats
they had; and why I might not order myself and my business
so that I might be as able to go over thither as they were to
come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should
do with myself when I went thither, what would become of
me if I fell into the hands of these savages, or how I should
escape them if they attacked me; no, nor so much as how it
was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by
some or other of them, without any possibility of delivering
myself; and if I should not fall into their hands, what I should
do for provisions, or whither I should bend my course ; none
of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way, but my
mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in
my boat to the mainland. I looked back upon my present
condition as the most miserable that could possibly be : that I
was not able to throw myself into. anything but death that
could be called worse ; and if I reached the shore of the main
I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I
did on the shore of Africa, till I came to some inhabited
country, and where _I might nd some relief; and, after all,
perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might
take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but
die, which would put an end to all these miseries at once.
Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an im-
patient temper, made desperate, as it were, by the long con-
tinuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in
the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz., somebody
to speak to, and to learn some knowledge from of the place
where I was, and of the probable means of my deliverance:
N
I say, I was agitated wholly by these thoughts 3 all my calm
of mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue
of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended 3 and I
had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but
to the project of a voyageto the main, which came upon me
with such force and such an impetuosity of desire that it was '
not to be resisted. ‘
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more,
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and
my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a fever, merely with
the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, Nature, as if I
had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it,
threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I
should have dreamed of it 3 but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it. But I dreamed that as I was going out in the
morning as usual from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages coming to land,-and that they brought
with them another savage, whom they were going to kill in
.order to eat him; when on a sudden the savage that they were
going to kill jumped away and ran for his life. And I thought
in my sleep that he came running into my little thick grove
before my fortication to hide himself 3 and that I, seeing him
alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him that way,
showed myself to him, and, smiling upon him, encouraged
him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist
him 3 upon which I showed him my ladder, made him go up,
and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant : and
that, as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, “Now I
may certainly venture to the mainland, for this fellow will
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being
devoured 3 what places to venture into, and what to shun.” 'I
waked with this thought, and was under such inexpressible im-
pressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream,
that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself,
and nding it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very great dejection .
of spirit. 7 -
Upon this, however,_I_ made this conclusion, that my only
way to go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to
Looking out for Savages. 179
get a' savage into my possession ; and, if possible, it should be
one of their prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten
and should bring hither to kill. l But these thoughts still were
attended with this difculty, that it was impossible to effect
this without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing
them all. And this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry ; but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled
the lawfulness of it to myself ; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my
deliverance. _ I need not repeat the arguments which occurred
to me against this, they being the same mentioned before. But
though I had other reasons to offer now, viz., that those men
were enemiesto my life, and would devour me if they could;
that it was self-preservation in the highest degree to deliver
myself from this death of a life, and was acting in my own
defence as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the
like; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts
of shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible
to me, and such as I could by no means reconcile myself to for
a great while. However, at last, after many secret disputes
with myself, and after great perplexities about it—for all these
arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head a long
time—the eager, prevailing desire of deliverance at length
mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to get onev of
these savages into my hands, cost what it would. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it ; and this, indeed, was very
difcult to resolve on. But as I could pitch upon no probable
means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to
see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the
event, taking such measures as the opportunity should present,
let what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that I was
heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year and a-half that I
waited, and for great part of that time went out to the west
end and to the south-west corner of the island almost every day
to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very dis-
couraging, and began to trouble me much; though I cannot say
that it did in this case as it had done some time before that,
viz., wear off the edge of my desire to the thing. But the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in
a word, I was not at rst so careful to shun the sight of these
savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to
be upon them. Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one,
nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make them _
entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them, and
to prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It
- was a great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but
nothing still presented itself. .All my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and a-half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all
into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion, I was surprised one morning early with seeing no less than
ve canoes all on shore together on my side the island, and the
people who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight!
The number of them broke all my measures ; for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came four or six, or some-
times more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or
how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men single—
handed: so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted.
However, I put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for action if
anything had presented. Having waited a good while, listening
to hear if they made any noise, at length, being very impatient,
I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to
the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; standing so,
however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no less
than thirty in number, that they had a re kindled, and that
they had meat dressed. How they had cooked it, that I knew
not, or what it was ; but they were all dancing in I know not
how many barbarous gestures and gures, their own way,-round
the re. ~
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my per-
spective two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where
it seems-they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being
knocked down I suppose,~with a club or wooden sword—for
Escape of a- Savage. \ 181
that was their 'way—and two or three others were at work
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment this poor wretch, seeing
himself a little at liberty, and unbound, Nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them, and'ran
with incredible swiftness along the sands directly towards me;
I mean, towards that part of the coast where my habitation
was. 1
I was dreadftu frightened, I must acknowledge, when I
perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, -
I saw him pursued by the whole body; and now I expected
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelter in my grove ; but I could not depend by
any means upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other
savages would not pursue him thither and nd him there. _
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover
when I found that there were not above three men that followed
him; and still more was I encouraged when I found that he
outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained ground on
them, so that if he could but hold out for half-an-hour, I saw
easily he would fairly get away from them all. -
There was between them and my castle the creek, which I
mentioned often in the rst part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must
necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there.
But when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing
of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging in, swam
through in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three
persons came to the creek, I found that two of them could
swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the other ' '
side, he 'looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon
after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was very
well for him in the main.
_I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice
as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that ed
from them. It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and
indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant,
and perhaps a companion or assistant; and that I was plainly
called by Providence . to 'save this poor creature’s life. _ I ’
immediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition,
fetched my two guns, for they were both but at the foot of the
ladders, as I observed before 3 and getting up again with the
same haste to the'top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea 3 I
and having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed myself
in the way between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing
aloud to him that ed, who, looking back, was at rst perhaps
as much frightened at me as at them : but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come-back 3 and in the meantime I slowly ad-
vanced towards the two that followed 3 then_ rushing at once
upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my
piece. I was loath to re, because I would not have the rest
hear 3 though at that distance it would not, have been easily
heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too, they would
not have easily known’what to make of it. Having knocked
this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as if he
had been frightened, and I advanced apace towards him: but
as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow,
and was tting it to shoot at me 3 so I was then necessitated to
shoot at him rst, which I did, and killed him at the rst shot.
The poor savage who ed, but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so
frightened with the re~ and noise of my piece that he stood
stock still, and neither came forward -nor went backward, though
he seemed rather inclined to y still than to come on. I
hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward, which
he easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped again,
and then a little farther, andstopped again 3 and I could then
perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his'two enemies
Were, I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him all
the signs of encouragement that I could think of 3 and he came
nearerand nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in
token 'of ackno'Wledgm'ent for my saving his life. - I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still
nearer. At length he came close to me, and then he kneeled
down again," kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the
ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head:
' this, it seems, was in token of swearing-to‘be my slave for ever.
. . . . . t ., .. . 7 .w...»
.. .. . | _. .. . . u . . a . . Vii] i. . _,.
. I . | V . l , , . . y - .i a , 3 > | i . ,
V . V ,_ J .. . r - . . w ... \ .Lw . I M .. 1 L . I "if _:>
‘__ . r r r V . v 1 t . ~
. .7 . r . r .


. . . a V I. . f . v. . .. ,.. A Jr. m. , 7., . Vii mi“. ,.,..\..r. ...,f . ._ . J, 7?


,’
M E.
“AT LENGTH HE CAME CLOSE TO
.The Pursuers Kane 183'
I took him up and made much of him, and encouraged him all
I could. [But there was more work to do yet ; for I perceived
the savage whom I had knocked down was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself; so I
pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that he was not
dead. Upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I
could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant
_to hear, for they were the rst sound of a man’s voice that I
had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-ve years. But
there was no time for such reections now. The savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon
the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid;
but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man,
as if I would shoot him. Upon this my savage—for so I
call him now~—made a motion to me to lend him my sword,
'which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I did He no
sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at One blow out
off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have
done it sooner or better ; which I thought very strange for one
who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life
before, except their own wooden swords. However, it seems,
as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so- I
sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard,'that they will even
cut off heads with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in. sign
of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with abun-
dance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most, was to know how I
had killed the other Indian so far off ; so pointing to him, he
made signs to me to let him go to him ; and I bade him go, as
well as I could. When he came to him he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him rst on one side, then on'
the other ; looked at the wound the bullet had made, which it
seems was just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no
great quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled in-.
wardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and
arrows and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned
to him to follow me, making signs to him that more might come
after them. .Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest if they
followed 3 and so I made signs to him‘ again to do so. He fell
to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand
with his hands big enough to bury the rst in, and then
dragged him into it and covered him, and did so by the other
also. I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an
hour. Then calling him away, I carried him, not to my castle,
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island3‘
so I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz. , that
he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread and
a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, from his running: and having
refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep,
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice-straw,
and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself
sometimes 3 so the poor creature lay down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped, and,
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very I
good countenance, not a erce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his face 3 and yet he had all the ’
sweetness and softness of a European in his countenance too,
- especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not
curled like wool 3 his forehead very high and large, and a great
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of
his skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not of
an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and
Virginians, and other natives of America are; but of a bright
kind of a dun olive-colour, that had in it something very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face was
round and plump 3 his nose small, not at like the negroes 3 a
very good mouth, thin lips, and his ne teeth well set, and as
white as ivory. -
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half-an-
hour, he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me 3 for I
had been milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just
by. When he espied me, he came running to me, laying him-
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of
an humble, thankful disposition, making a great many antic
gestures to show it. At last he lays his head at upon the
Fm'day ’s First Lessons. 185
ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon hishead,
as he had done before ; and after this made all the signs to me
of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood
him in many things, and let him know I was very well
pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak to him,
and teach him to speak to me ; and rst, I let him know his
name should be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life.
I called him so for the memory of the time. I likewise taught
him to say Master, and then let him know that was to be my
name. I likewise taught him to say Yes and N0, and to know
the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my bread
in it; and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he
quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night ,- but as soon as it was
day I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know I
would give him some clothes; at which he seemed very glad,
for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where he
had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and
showed me the marks that he had made to nd them again,
making signs to me that we should dig them up again and eat
them! At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence
of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he did
immediately, with great submission. I then led him up to the
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling
out my glass, I looked and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their canoes; so
that it was plain they were gone, and had left their two com-
rades behind them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having now
more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man
Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the
bow and arrows at his back, which I found he ,could use very
dexterously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for _--.
myself ; and away we marched to the place where these creatures had been, for I had a mind now to get some fuller
mtelligence of them. When I came to the place, my very
blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within me at
the horror of the spectacle. Indeed it was a dreadful sight——
at least it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it.
The place was covered with human bones, the ground dyed
with their blood, and great pieces of esh left here and there,
half eaten, mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens
of the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, ve hands, and
the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other
parts of the bodies ,' and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that
three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth: that there had been a great battle between
them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he
had been one; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all of which were carried to several places by those
who had taken them in the ght, in order to feast upon them,
as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought,
hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, esh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make
a great re upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found
Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the esh, ‘
and was still a cannibal in his nature 3 but I showed so much
abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it 3 for I had
by some means let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it. - .
When he had done this, we came back to our castle, and
there I fell to work for my man Friday 3 and rst of all I gave
him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor
gunner’s chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and
which with a little alteration tted him very well. And then
I made him a, jerkin of goat’s skin, as well as my skill would
, allow (for I was now grown a tolerably good tailor); and I
gaVe him'a cap which I made of a hare’s'skin, very convenient,
and, fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed for the
present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to see him-
self almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he went
awkwardly in these clothes at rst: wearing the drawers was
Very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
A Lodging for Friday. 187
his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little easing
them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself
to them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day, after I came home to my hutch with him, I
began to consider where I should lodge him ; and that I might
. do Well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a
little tent for him in the vacant place between my two forti-
cations, in the inside of the last, andin the outside of the rst.
And as there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set
it up in the passage, a little within the entrance ; and causing
the door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too ; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost wall without making so
much noise in getting over that it must needs waken me. For
my rst wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the' bill,
which was again laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-
straw, which was strong like reeds; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder -I had placed a
kind of trap—door, which, if it had been attempted on the out-
side, would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down
and made a great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all
into my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man
had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to
me; without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged
and engaged; his very a‘ections were tied to me, like those of
a child to a father, and I dare say he would have sacriced his
life to save mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. The many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon
convinced me that I needed to use no precautions as to my
safety on his account. ‘ .
' This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His providence,
and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to
which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted;
yet that He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the
same reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kind;
ness and obligation, the same passions and resentments of
Wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, delity, and all
the capacities of doing good and receiving good that He has
given to us 3 and that when He pleases to offer them occasions
, of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply
them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we
are. And this made me very melancholy sometimes, .in re-
ecting, as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we
make, of all these, even though we have these powers en-
lightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of His word added to our understanding;
and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge
from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this
' poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice
of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a like
duty from both. But I shut it up, and checked my thoughts
with this conclusion: rst, that we did not know by what
light and law these should be condemned 3 but that as God
was necessarily, and, by the nature of His being, innitely holy
and just, so it could not be, but if these creatures were all
sentenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light Which, as the Scripture says, was a law to
themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was not dis-
covered to us; and, secondly, that still, as we all are the clay
in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, “Why
hast thou formed me thus?”
But to return to my new companion. I was greatly delighted
with him, and made it my business to teach him everything
that was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful 3 but
especially to make him speak, and understand me when I spoke:
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was, and particularly
was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
could but understand me, or make me understand him, that it
was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my life
began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself,vthat could
Friday ’s Adonis/1mm). 189
I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place where I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal’s stomach, I 'ought
to let him taste other esh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid
out of my own ock, and bring it home and dress it ; but as I
was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday. “Hold,”
said I, “ stand still ;” and made signs to him not to stir. Im-
mediately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the
kids. The poor creature, who had at a distance indeed seen me
kill the savage his enemy, but did not know or could imagine
hey;r it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook,
and looked so amazed that I thought he would have sunk down.
He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it,
but ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded,
and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill him;
for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand, but I could
easily see that the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm, and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had 'killed, beckoned to him to run
' and fetch it, which he did; and while he was wondering and
looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
again. By-and-by I saw a great fowl like a hawk sit upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I
would do, I called him to me again, pointing to the fowl,
which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a.
hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to
the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it
fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that
bird. Accordingly I red, and bade him look, and immediately
he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again,
notwithstanding all I had said to him; and I found he was
the more amazed, because he did not see me put anything into
the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful fund
of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, '
bird, or anything near or far o‘; and the astonishment this
created in him was such as could not wear off for a long time ;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have wor-
shipped me and my gun! As for the gun itself, he would not
so much as touch it for several days after ; but would speak to
it, and talk to it as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire
it not to kill him. '
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot; which he
did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite
dead, had uttered away a good way off from the place where
she fell. However, he found her, took her up, and brought
her to me ; and as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun
before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark
that might present. But nothing more offered at that time ,-
so I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the
skin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and having apot
for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the esh, and
made some very good broth. After I had begun to eat some;
I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked
it very well. But that which was strangest to him was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was
not good to eat ;' and putting a little into his own mouth, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing.
his mouth with fresh water after it. On the other hand, I
took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to
spit and sputter for want of salt as fast as he had done at the
salt. But it would not do 3 he would never care for salt with
his meat or in his broth—at least not for a great while, and
then but a very little. -
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of the
kid. This I did by hanging it before the re on a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up, one
on each side of the re, and one across on the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired very much ; but when he .came to taste
the esh, he took so many ways to tell me how Well he liked
Friday hecomes Useful. 191
it, that I could not but understand him; at last he told me he
would never eat man’s esh any more—which I was very glad
to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before ;
and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially
after. he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was
to make bread of; for after that I let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to
do all the work for me as well as Ibould do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the
. same manner as before ; in which Friday worked not only very
willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully. And I told
him what it was for; that it was for corn to make more bread,
because he was now with me, and that I might have enough
for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of that
part, and let me know that he thought I had much more
labour upon me on his account than I had for myself; and
that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do. '
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
'. place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had to send him to, and talkeda great deal to me; _
so that, in short, I began now to have some use for my tongue
again, which indeed I had very little occasion for before-.-that
is to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him,
I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself. His simple, '
unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature; and, on his side, I
believe he loved me'more than it was possible for him ever to
love anything before. /
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination
to his own country again; and having learned him English so
Well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered
in battle? At which he smiled, and said, “ Yes, yes ; we
always ght the better 3” that is, he meant always get the better
in ght; and so we began the following discourse :—
Master. You always ght the better! How came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday? -
Friday. My nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken? .
Friday. They more many than my nation in the place where
me was 3 they take one,.two, three, and me. My nation over-
beat them in yonder place, where me no was 3 there my nation
take one, two, great thousand. ‘
Master. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies then? .
Friday. They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe 3 my nation have no canoe that time. . ~
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and- eat them,
as these did?
Friday. Yes; my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither 3 come other else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here (points to the north-west side of '
theisland, which it seems was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
' among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther
part of the island, on the same man-eating occasion that he was
now brought for. And some time after, when I took the
courage to carry him to that side, being the same I formerly
mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was
there once when they ate up twenty men, two women, and one
child. He could not tell twenty in English, but he numbered
them by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me
to tell them over. '
I have told this passage because it introduces what follows:
that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were nOt often lost? He told me there was no danger, no
0; -.
Gets Information from Friday. 193‘
canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there '
was a current and a wind, always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon. This I understood to be 'no more than
the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draft and reux of
the mighty river Orinoco, in the mouth or gulf of which river,
as I f0und afterwards, our island lay ; and that this land which
I perceived to the west and north-west was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I
asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near.
He told me all he knew with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than the Caribs; from
whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees,
which our maps place on the part of America which reaches
from the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards
to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the
moon—that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must
be West from their country—there dwelt white bearded men
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned
before; and that they had killed much mans—that was his
word. By all which I understood he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America had been spread over the whole
countries, and were remembered by all the nations from father
to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island, and get among those white men. He told me, “Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe.” I could not understand what
he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by two
canoe, till at last, with great difculty, I found he meant it
must be in a large, great boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday’s discourse I began to relish very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or
other, I might nd an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help
‘ me to do it. ' '
During the long time that Friday had now been with me,
and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was
not wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his
0
mind ; particularly I asked him one time, “Who made him’l”
The poor creature did not understand me at all, but thought I
had asked who was his father. But I took it up by another
handle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground we
walked on, and the hills and woods? He told me it was one
old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old 3 “much
older,” he said, “than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars.” I asked him then, “If this old person had made
all things, why did not all things worship him ‘1” He looked
very grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, “All
things do say 0 to him.” I asked him if the people who die
in his country went away anywhere? He said, “ Yes ; they all
went to Benamuckee.” Then I asked him whether those they
ate went up thither too? He said, “ Yes.”
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven 5 that He governed
the world by the same power and providence by which He had
made it 3 that He was omnipotent, and could do everything for
us, give everything to us, take everything from us: and thus
by degrees I opened his eyes. He listened with great atten—
tion, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us; and of the manner of making our
prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even in heaven.
He told me one day that if our God could hear us up beyond
the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee,
who lived but a little way o', and yet could not hear till they
went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him?
He said, “ N 0 ; they never went that were young men 3” none
went thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowokakee
—that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or
clergy ; and that they went to say 0 (so he calledsaying
prayers), and then came back and told them what Benamuckee
said. By this I observed that there is priestcraft even
among the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and
the policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to
be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions
Instructs Friday in Relzgion. 195
in the world, even among the most brutish and barbarous
savages. 4
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and
told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the
mountains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat, and
their bringing word from thence what he said was much more
so ; that if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one
there, it must be with an evil spirit. And then I entered into
a long discourse with him about the devil, the origin of him,
his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it,
his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
worshipped instead of God, and as God ; and the many strata-
gems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin—how he
had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares so to our inclinations as to cause us even to be
our own tempters, and to run upon \our destruction by our own
choice. '
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his
mind about the devil as it was about the being of a God.
Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the
necessity of a great First Cause and overruling governing
Power, a secret directing Providence, and of the equity and '
justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and the like.
But there appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit—of his origin, his being, his nature, and, above all, of
his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too ; and
the poor creature puazled me once in such a manner, by a ques-
tion merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to
say to him. I had been talking a great dealto him of the
power of God, His omnipotence, His dreadful aversion to sin,
His being a consuming re to the workers of iniquity; how,
as He had made us all, He could destroy us and all the
world in a moment ; and he listened with great seriousness to
me all the while. After this I had been telling him how
the devil was God’s enemy in the hearts of men, and used all
his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Provi-
dence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and ,
the like. “Well,” says Friday, “but you say’ God is so
strong, so great; is He not much strong, much might as the
devil!” “Yes, yes, Friday,” says I; “God is stronger than
the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him down under our feet, and enable us to resist
his temptations and quench his ery darts.” “ But,” says
he again, “if God _ much strong, much might as the devil,
why God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?”
I was strangely surprised at his question 3 and, after all,
though I was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor,
and ill enough qualied for a casuist, or a solver of diiculties.
And at rst I could not tell what to say 3 so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said. But he was too earnest
for an answer to forget his question; so that he repeated it in
the very same broken words as above. By this time I had
recovered myself a little, and I said, “God will at last punish
him severely 3 he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast
into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting re.” This
did not satisfy Friday 3 but he returns upon me, repeating my
words, “ ‘ Reserve at last 1’ me no understand. But why not
kill the devil now, not kill great ago?” “You may as well
ask me,” said I, “why God does not kill you or me when we
do wicked things here that offend Him. We are preserved to
repent and be pardoned.” He muses a while at this. “Well,
well,” says he, mighty affectionately, “that well 3 so you, I,
devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.” Here
I, was run down again by him to the last degree 3 and it was a
testimony to me how the mere notions of nature, though they
will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and
of a worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as
the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but divine revela-
tion can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a
redemption purchased for us 3 of a Mediator of the new covenant,
and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God’s throne 3 I say,
nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the
soul 3 and that, therefore, the gospel of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ—I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of God,
promised for the guide and sanctier of His people—are the
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the
saving knowledge of God and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going
out; than sending him for something a good way off, I seriously
Learns 6y T eaoning.’ 197
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct savineg
this poor savage; assisting, by His Spirit, the heart of the
poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge of
God in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would guide
me to speak so to him om the Word of God that his con-
science might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul
saved. When he came again to me, I entered into a long dis-
course with him upon the subject of the redemption of man
by the Saviour of the world, and _of the doctrine of the gospel
preached from heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and
faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as
well as I could why our blessed Redeemer took not on him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how, for that,
reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption ; that
He came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and
the like. ' l '
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature’s instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same prin-
ciple will nd, that, in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that either I
did not know or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind, upon searching into them for
the information of this poor savage. And I had more affection
in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt ‘
before ; so that, whether this poor wild wretch was the better
for me or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he
came to me. 'My grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure: and when I reected
that in this solitary life which I had been conned to, I had I
not only been moved to look up to heaven myself, and to seek
the hand that had brought me here, but was now to be made
an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for
aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the
true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that
he might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say,
when I reected upon all these things, a secret joy ran through
every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I had so often thought the most
dreadful of all afictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time 3 and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years which we
lived theretogether perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be formed in a sublunary
state. This savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I ,' though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored penitents.
We had here the 'Word of God to read, and no further off from
His Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England.
I always applied'myself to reading the Scriptures, to let him
know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read; and he
again, by his serious inquiries and questionings,-made me, as I
said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge
than I should ever have been by my own mere private reading.
Another thing I cannot refrain from observing here also, from
experience in this retired part of my life, viz., how innite and
inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and
of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid
down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and under-
stood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made me capable
of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly on
to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation
in practice, and obedience to all God’s commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor (I mean human); so the
“same plain instruction sufciently served to the enlightening
this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian
as I have known few equal 'to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and contention
\which have happened in the world about religion, whether
nicetiesin doctrines or schemes of church government, they
were all perfectly useless to us, as, for aught I can yet see, they
have been to all the rest in the world. We had the sure guide
to heaven, viz., the Word of God; and we had, blessed be God,
comfortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching and in-
structing by His word, leading us into all truth, and making
us both willing and obedient to the instruction of His word ,-
and I cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge of
the disputed points in religion, which have made such con-
Pleasant Intercourse. 199
fusions in the world, would have been to us, if we could have
obtained it. But I must- go on with the historical part of
things, and take every part in its order. - '
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and -
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak
uently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him
with my own story, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming into the place; how I had lived there, and how long.
I let him into the mystery—for such it was to him—of gun-
powder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him
a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with; and I made
him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we
wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gaVe
him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon in some
cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, particularly
England, which I came from; ‘ how we lived, how we worshipped
God, h0w we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, as near
as I could, the place where she lay ; but she was all beaten in
pieces before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat
which we lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir
with my whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all
to pieces. _ Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon. At last says he, “Me see such boat like come to place
at my nation.” I did not understand him a good while ; but,
at last, when I had examined further into it, I understood by
him that a boat such as that had been came on shore upon
the country where he lived; that is,-as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and
the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that
I never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come: so I only inquired ,
after a description of the boat. _ .
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added with some warmth,
“ We save the white mans from drown.” Then I presently
asked him if there were any white mans, as he called them, in
the boat. “Yes,” he said 3 “ the boat full of white mans.” I
asked him how many. He told upon his ngers seventeen.
I asked him then what‘became of them. He told me, “ They
live, they dwell at my nation.”
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the 'men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now called it 3
and who, after the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw
her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon
this I inquired of him more critically what was become of
them. He assured me they lived still there; that they had
been there about four years; that the savages let them alone,
and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said, “N 0,
they make brother with them 3” that is, as I understood him, a
truce 3 and then he added, “They no eat mans but when make
the war ght 3” that is to say, they never eat any men but
such as come to ght with them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the
.top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as
I have said, I had in a clear day discovered the main or con-
tinent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks
very earnestly towards the mainland, and, in a kind of surprise,
falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I Was at
some distance from him. I asked him what was the matter.
“ Oh, joy!” says he; “Oh, glad! there see my country, there
my nation!” I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance
discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in
his own country again. This observation of mine put a great
many thoughts into me, which made me at rst not so easy
about my new man Friday as I was before 3 and I made no
doubt but that, if Friday could get back to his own nation
again, he would not only forget all his religion, but all his
obligation to me, and would be forward enough to give his
countrymen an account of me, and come back perhaps with a
hundred or two of them, andmake a feast upon me, at which
he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his
Unjust to Friday. 201
enemies when they were taken in war. But I wronged the
poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before; in which I was certainly in the
wrong too, the honest, grateful creature having no thought
about it but what consisted with the best principles, both as a
religious Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared after-
wards to my full satisfaction. >
v. While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the
new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found
everything he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
nd nothing to nourish my suspicion ; and, in spite of all my
uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again ; nor did
he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I
could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea so that we could not see the continent, I called to
him and said, “ Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own
country, your own nation?” “Yes,” he said, “I be much 0
glad to be at my own nation.” “ What would you do there '1”
said I. “Would you turn wild again, eat men’s esh again,
and be a savage as you were before ’i” He looked full of con-
cern, and shaking his head, said, “N o, no ;, Friday tell them
to live good; tell them to pray God; tell them to eat corn-bread,
cattle-flesh, milk ; no eat man again.” “Why, then,” said I to
him, “they will kill you.” He looked grave at that, and then
said, “N 0, they no kill me, they willing love learn.” He meant
by this they would be willing to learn. ~ He added, they
learned much of the bearded men that came in the boat. Then
I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go if I would go
# with him. “ I go !” says I ; "‘why, they will eat me if I come'
there.” “N o, no,” says he; “me make they no eat you ; me
make they much love youl’ He meant he' would tell them
how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he
would make them love me. Then he told me, as well as
he' could, how kind they were to seventeen white men—or ’
bearded men, as he called them—who came on shore there in
distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I
made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting
but, if I could, we might nd some method to escape from
thence, being upon the continent, and a good company together,


better than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
and alone without help. So, after some days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of discourse, and told him. I would give
him a boat to go back to his own nation ; and, accordingly I
carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other side of the
island, and having cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk
in the water), I brought it out, showed it him, and we both
Friday’s Attachment. ' 203
went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at-
managing it, and would make it go almost as swift and fast
again as I could. So when he was in, I _said to him, “ Well
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?” He looked very
dull at my saying so ; which it seems was because he thought
the boat too small to go so far. I then told him I had a bigger;
so the next day I went to the place where the rst boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into the water.
He said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no care
of, it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the
‘ sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
.Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and would
carry “much enough vittle, drink, bread ;” that was his way of
talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so xed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we
would go and make one as big as that, and he should go home
in it. He answered not one word, but looked very grave and
sad. I asked him, “What was the matter with him ’1” He
asked me again thus, “ Why you angry mad with Friday; what
me done?” I asked him what he meant. I told him I was
not angry with him at all. “ N o angry! no angry !” says he,
repeating the words several times; “why send Friday home
away to my nation?” “Why, F riday,” says I, “did you not
say you wished you were there ’4” “ Yes, yes,” says he ; “wish
we both there—no wish Friday there, no master there.” In a
word, he would not think of going there without me. “I go
' there, Friday!” says I ; “what shall I do there ’l” He turned
very quick upon me at this. “You do great deal much good,”
says he ; “ you teach wild mans' to be good, sober, tame mans;
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life.” “Alas!
Friday,” says I, “thou knowest not what thou sayest ; I am
but an ignorant man myself.” “Yes, yes,” says he; “you
teachee me good, you teachee them good.” “ N o, no, Friday,” -
says I; “you shall go without me ; leave me here to live by
myself, as I did before.” He looked confused again at that
word, and running to one of the hatchets which, he used to
wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. “What must
I do with this 2” says I to him. “ You take kill Friday,” says
he. “What must I kill you for?” said I again. He returns
.very quick—“What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday, no send Friday away.” This he spoke so earnestly
that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly dis-
covered the utmost a'ection in him to me, and a rm resolution
in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I would
never send him away from me, if he was willing to stay
with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
affection to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so
I foundall the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and
his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had,
no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought or inten-
tion or desire' of undertaking it. But still I found a strong
inclination to my attempting an escape as above, founded on
the supposition gathered from the discourse—viz., that there
were seventeen bearded men there 3 and therefore, without any
more delay, I went to work with Friday to nd out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe to
undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in the island
to have built a little eet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even
of good large vessels 3 butrthe main thing I looked at was, to
get one so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at rst. At last
Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much better
than I what kind of wood was ttest for it 3 nor can I tell, to
this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except it
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow - or cavity of this tree out
to make it for a boat 3 but I showed him how rather to cut it
out with tools 3 which, after I had showed him how to use, he
did very handily 3 and in about a month’s hard labour we
. nished it and made it very handsome, especially when, with
our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and
hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight’s time to get her along, as
it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water: but
when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
great ease. " .
71a New Boat. 205
When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and paddle her along; so
I asked him if he would, and if We might venture over in her.
“Yes,” he said; “we v'enture over in her very well, though
great blow wind.” However, I had a further design that he
knew nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and sail, and
to t her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get ; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-
tree, which I found near the place, and which there were great
plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and order it.
But as to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had ,
old sails, or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but'as I had
had them now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever have
this kind of use for them, I did not doubt that they were all
rotten ; and, indeed, most of them were so. However, I found
two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I went
to work ; and with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious
stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles, I at length
made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England
_a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships’ long-
boatsvsail with, and such as I best knew how to manage, be-
cause it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I made
my escape from' Barbary, as related in the rst part of my
story. '
I was near two months performing this last work—viz.,
rigging and tting my mast and sails ; for I nished them very
complete, making a small stay, and a sail or foresail to it, to
assist if we should turn to windward ,- and, which was more
than all, I xed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I ,
was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness
and even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so
much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though,
considering the many dull contrivances I had for it that failed,
I think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat: for though he
knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of
what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the most amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the
rudder, and how the sail jibbed, and lled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed 5 I say, when he saw this
he stood like, one astonished and amazed. However, with a
little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he be-
came an expert sailor, except that, as to the compass, I could
make him understand very little of that.
as there was .very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a com-
pass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night and
the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven—and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place 5 though the last three years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account,
my habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest
of the time. I kept theanniversary of my landing here with
the same thankfulness to God for His mercies as at rst. And
if I had such cause of acknowledgment at rst, I had much
more so now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
PrOvidence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
effectually and speedily delivered 5 for I had an invincible im-'
pression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand,
and that I should not be another year in this place. However,
I went on with my husbandry—digging, planting, and fencing
as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when I kept
more within doors than at other times. We had stowed our
new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the
creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts
’ from the ship 5 and hauling her up to the shore at high-water
mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water enough to
oat in 5 and then, when the tide was out, we made a strong
dam across the end of it, to keep the water out 5 and so she
lay dry as to the tide from the sea 5 and to keep the rain off,
we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick that she was as
On the other hand, -
\
More Savages! ' 207
well thatched as a house. And thus we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I designed to make my
_ adventure. ' ‘
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing
daily for the voyage. And the rst thing I did was to lay by -
_a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for our
voyage; and intended in a week or a fortnight’s time to open
the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid
him go to the sea-shore and see if he could nd a turtle or
- tortoise—a thing which we generally got once a-week, for the
sake of the eggs as Well as the esh. Friday had not been
long gone when he came running back, and ew over my outer
wall or fence like one that felt not the ground, or the stepshe
set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he
cries out to me, “ O master! O master !——O sorrow !—0 bad!”
“ What’s the matter, Friday 2” says I. “ Oh—yonder—there,”
says he ; “ one, two, three canoe !—one, two, three! ” By his
way of speaking I concluded there were six ; but on inquiry I
found there were but three. “ Well, F riday,” says I, “ do not
be frightened.” So I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for "
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him ; and the poor ‘
fellow trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with him.
I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as
much danger as he, and that they would-eat me as wellas
him : “but,” says I, “Friday, we must resolve to ght them.
Can you ght, Friday?” “Me shoot,” says he ; “ but there
come many great number.” “N o matter for that,” said I
again ; “ our guns will frighten them-that we do net kill.” So
I asked him, “Whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him?” He said, “Me die when you bid die, master.” So
- I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him; for I
had been so good a husband of my rum that I had a great deal
left. When he- had drunk it, I made him take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them with
large swan-shot, as big as small. pistol bullets. Then I took
four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and ve small
bullets each 3 and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of
bullets each. I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared
myself, I took my perspective-glass, and went up to the side -.
' of the hill to see what I could discover; and I found quickly,
by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages, three.
prisoners, and three canoes 3 and that their whole business
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human
bodies—a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more than, as I
had observed, was usual with them. I observed also that they
. had landed, not where they had done when Friday made his
escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, lled me with such indignation, that I came down
again to Friday and told him I was resolved to go down to
them and kill them all 3 and asked him if he would stand by
me? He had new got over his fright, and his spirits being a
little raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told me, as before, “he would die when I bid
e.
In this t of fury I divided the arms which I had charged,
as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his
girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder 3 and I took one
pistol and the other three guns myself 3 and in this posture we
marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets 3 and as
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to
stir, or shoot, or do anything till I bid him, and in the mean-
time not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek
as to get into the wood 3 so that I might come within shot of
them before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts re- '
turning, I began to abate my resolution. I do not mean that
I entertained any fear of their number; for as they were naked,
unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them—nay,
though I had been alone 3 but it occurred to my thoughts,
Wait/16s ing Savages. 209
what call, what occasiom, much less What necessity, I was in to
go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
neither done nor intended me any wrong—who as to me were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster,
being in them a token indeed of God’s having left them, with
the other nations of that part of ,the world, to such stupidity,
and to such inhuman courses, but did not call‘me to take upon
me to be a judge of their-actions, much less an executioner of
His justice : that whenever He thought t He would take the
cause into His own hands, and by national vengeance punish
them as a people for national crimes; but that, in the mean-
time, it was none of my business: that it was true Friday
might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a
state of war with those very pafticular people, and it was law-1
full for him to attack them ; but I could not say the same with
regard to myself. These things were so warmly pressed upon
my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would
only go and place myself near them, that I might observe
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct ; but that unless something offered that was
more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle
with them. ' .
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all pos~
sible wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels,
I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood on the side
which was next to them, only that one corner of the wood lay
between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and
showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the
wood, I bade him go to the tree and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing, He did so, and
came immediately back to me and ’told me they might be
plainly viewed there ; that they were all about their re eating
the esh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound
upon the sand a little from them, which, he said, they would
kill next, and which red the very soul within me. He told
me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men
whom he had told me of, that came to their country in the
boat. I was lled with horror at the naming of the white
bearded man ; and going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands
P .
and his feet tied with ags, or things like rushes 5 and that he
Was a European, and had clothes on. ‘
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which,
by going a little way'about, I saw I might come at undiscovered,
and that then I should be 'within half shot of them; so I
withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the- _
highest degree, and going back about twenty paces, I got -
behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then I came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them at the distance of about eighty
7 yards. - '
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dread-
ful wretches Sat upon the ground, all close huddled together,
and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian,
and bring him perhaps limb by limb to their re, and they
were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet.‘ I turned
to Friday. “ Now, Friday,” said I, “do as I bid thee.”
Friday said he would. “Then, Friday,” says I, “do exactly
as you see me do—fail in nothing.” So I set down one of the
muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim
' at the savages, bidding him do the like 5 then asking him if he
Was ready, he said, “ Yes.” “ Then re at them,” said I 5 and _
at the same moment I red also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot he killed two of them and wounded three more 5
and on my side I killed one and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them
who were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not im-
mediately know which way to run or which way to look, for
they knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday
kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
observe what I did. So as soon as the rst shot was made, I
threw down the piece and took up the fowling-piece, and,
Friday did the like 5 he saw me cock and present 5 he did the
same again. “ Are you ready, Friday?” said I. “Yes,” says
he. “ Let y, then,” says I, “ in the name of God 1” and with
that I red again among "the amazed wretches, land so did
Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded with what I called
Rescuesa Spaniard. ' 211
swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only two drop ; but
so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures, .all bloody, and most of them
miserably wounded; whereof three more fell quickly after,
though not quite dead. I
“Now, Friday,” says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, “follow me,”
says I; which he did with a great deal of courage. Upon'
which I rushed out of the wood and showed myself, and
Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too ; and
running as fast as I could—which, by the way,- was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was—I made directly towards
the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or
shore, between the place where they sat and the sea. The two
butchers who were just going to work with him had left him
at the surprise of our rst re, and ed in a terrible fright to
the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forward and re at them. He understood me im-
mediately, and running about forty yards, to be nearer them,
he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them- all ; for I
saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly. However, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third so that he lay down in the bottom of the
boat as if he had been dead. .
While my man Friday red at them, I pulled out my knife
and cut the ags that bound the poor victim; and loosing
‘ his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the
Portuguese tongue, “What he was 2” He answered in Latin,
“ Christianus ;” but was so weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out -of my pocket and.
gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a-piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked
him, “What countryman he was 1” And he said, “Espag- ‘ -
niole ;” and being a little recovered, let me know, by all the
signs he could possibly make, how much. he was in my debt
for his deliverance. “ Seignior,” said I, with as much Spanish
as I could make up, “we will talk afterwards, but we must
ght now. If you have any strength left, take this pistol and
sword and lay about you.” He 'took them very thankfully;
' and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he ew upon his murderers like
a fury, and had out two 'of them in pieces in an instant. For
the truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor
creatures were so much frightened with the noise of our pieces
that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had no
more power to attempt their own escape than their esh had
to resist our shot. And that was the case of those ve that
Friday shot at in the boat 3 for as three of them fell with the
hurt they received, so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without ring, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword. So I called Friday, and bade
him run up to the tree from whence we rst red, and fetch
the arms which lay there that had been discharged, which he
did with great swiftness 3' and then, giving him my musket, I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come
to me when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces,
there‘happened a erce engagement between the Spaniard and,
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords—the same weapon that was to have killed him .
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as
bold and as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had
fought the Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head 3 but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow,
closing in with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and
was wringing my sword out of his hand 3 when the Spaniard,
though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol
~ from his girdle, shot the savage through the body and killed
him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him,
could come near him. ' '
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the ying'
wretches with no weapon’ in his hand but his hatchet 3 and -
with that he despatched those three who, as I said before, were
wounded at rst, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up
with. And the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him
one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the’
savages, and wounded them both: but as he was not able to
run, they both got from him into the wood, where Friday pur-
sued them and killed one of them, but the other was too
nimble for him, and though he was wounded, yet had plunged
himself into the sea, and swam with all his might off to those
two who were left in the canoe ; which three in the canoe, with
one wounded, whom we knew not; whether he died or no,
were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The
account of the whole is as follows :—Three killed at our rst
shot from the tree ; two killed at the next shot ; two killed by
Friday in the boat; two killed by 'Friday, of those at rst
wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by
the Spaniard ; four killed, being found dropped here and there
of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them ; four
escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead—
twenty-one in all. ' 'i '
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-
shot; and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I
did not nd that he hit any of them. ' Friday would fain have
had me take one of their canoes and pursue them ; and indeed
I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news
home to their people, they should come back perhaps with two
or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multi-
tude. So I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to
one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to nd another
poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear,
not knowing what the matter was; for he had not been able
to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so_hard, neck
and heels, and had been tied so long that 'he had really but
little life in him. '
I immediately cut the twisted ags of rushes which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up ; but he
could not stand or speak, but groaned most pit‘eously, believ-
ing, it seems still, that he was only unbound in order to be
killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram ; which, with the news
of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in' the
boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in
his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have seen
how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried,
laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then
sung and jumped about again like a distracted creature. ' It
was a good while before I-could make him speak to me, or tell
me what was the matter 5 but when he came a little to himself,
he told me that it was his father 1
It is not easy for me to express how' itmoved me to see
what ecstasy and lial affection had worked in this poor savage
at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from
death 5 nor indeed' can I describe half the extravagances of his
affection after this—for he went into the boat and out of'the
boat a great many times. When he went in to him, he would
. sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father’s head
close to his bosom half-an—hour together, to nourish it 5 then
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands 5 and
I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of
my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good. i
- This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now almost out of sight. And it was
happy for us that we did not 5 for it blew so hard within two
a _ hours after, and before they could be got a quarter cf their way,
and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
_ north-west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
. their boat could live, or that they. ever reached their own
coast. -
- But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father
that I could not nd in my heart to take him off for some
time 5 but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing and pleased to .
the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he had‘ given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said, “ None 5 ugly
dog eat all up self.” So I gave him a cake of bread, out of a
little pouch I carried on purpose 5 I also gave him a dram for
himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to his father.
I had in my pocket also two .or three bunches of raisins, so I
gave him a handful of ‘them for his father. He had no sooner
given his father these raisins but I saw him come out of the
4‘
I
FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER.


Friday ’s Fraternal Love. 215
boat and run away as if he had been bewitched, he ran away at
such a rate—for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that
ever I saw; I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out of
sight, as it were, in an instant ; and though I called, and
hallooed too, after him, it was all one, away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so
fast as he went ; and as he came nearer, I found his pace was
slacker, because he had something in his hand. When he
came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
jug or pot to bring his father some fresh water, and that he
had got two more cakes or loaves of bread. .The bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father. However, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for
he was just fainting with thirst. ‘
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left? He said, “Yes ;” and I bade him give
it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the
Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing
himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree, and whose
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the
rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that upon
Friday’s coming to him with the water he sat up and drank, I
and took the bread and began to eat, I went to him and gave
him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face with all
the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in
any countenance ; but he was so weak, notwithstanding he had
, so exerted himself in the ght, that he could not stand up upon
his feet. He tried to do it two or three times, but was really
not able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him ; so
I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his father’s. _
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the While he was here, turn his head about
to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he left
him sitting; and at last he found he was not to be seen; at
which he started up, and without speaking a word, ew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to
touch the ground as he went.’ But when he came, he only
found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs; so Friday
came back to me presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up if he could, and lead him to the
boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I
would take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow,
took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him - i ‘
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side or
gunwale of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then
lifted him quite in and set him close to his father, and pre-
sently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and Paddled
it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too. So he brought them both safe into our
creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the
other canoe. As he passed me I spoke to him, and asked him
whither he went? He told me, “Go fetch more boat.” So
away he went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran
like him 5 and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as
soon as I got to it by land. So he wafted me over, and then
went ‘to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did 5
' but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.
_ To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling
to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to
me, I soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and
Friday and I carried them both up together upon it between us.
But when we got them to the outside of our wall or forti-
cation, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible
to get them over 5 and I was resolved not to break it down.
So I set to work again 5 and Friday and I, in abOut two hours’ ‘
time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and
above that with boughs of trees, being in the space without
our outward fence, and between that and the grove of young
wood which I had planted 5 and here we made them two beds
of such things as I had—~viz., of good rice-straw, with blankets
laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover them on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich
in subjects 5 and it was a merry reection, which I frequently
made, . how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole
country was my own property, so that I had an undoubted
right of dominion. Secondly, my people were perfectly sub-
His new Suhjects. ' 217
' jected ; I was absolute lord and lawgiver ; they all owed their
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable too, I had
but three subjects, and they were of three different religions:
my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a
cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. However, I allowed
liberty of conscience throughout my dominions. But this is
by the way. -
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter and a place to rest them upon, I began
to think of making some provision for them. The rst thing
I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat—betwixta kid
' and a goat—out of my particular ock, to be killed, when I
cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces,‘
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a
very good dish, I assure you, of esh and broth, having put
some barley and rice also into the broth; and as I cooked it
without-doors, for I made no re within my inner wall, so I
carried it all into the new tent; and having set a table there .
for them, I sat down and ate my own dirmer also with them,
and, as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them—
Friday being my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed
to the Spaniard too, for the Spaniard spoke the language of '
the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other V
rearms, which for want of time we had left upon the place of
battle; and the next day I ordered him to go and bury, the
dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun and
would presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury the
horrid: remains of their barbarous feast, which I could not
think of doing myself ; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I
went that way. All which he punctually performed, and '
effaced the very appearance of the savages being there; so that,
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise
than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place. ,
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects. . And rst I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them with a power
savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went off, but must of necessity be drowned or
driven south to those other shores, where they were as sure to
be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast
away. But as to what they would do if they came safe on
shore, he said he knew not 3 but it was his opinion that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked—the noise and the re—that he believed they would
tell their people that they‘were all killed by thunder and
lightning, not by the hand of man 3 and that the two which
appeared—Wis, Friday and I—were two heavenly spirits or f
furies come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.-
This he said he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in
their language one to another 3 for it was impossible for them
to conceive that a man could dart re and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance without lifting up the hand, as was done now.
And this old savage was in the right 3 for, as I understood .
since by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterwards 3 they were so terried with the accounts
given by those four men (for it seems they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island would
be destroyed with re from the gods ! This, however, I knew
not, and therefore was under continual apprehensions fora good
while, and kept always upon my guard, me and all my army 3
I for, as we were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a
hundred of them fairly in the open eld at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off, and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured by Friday’s father that I might depend upon
. good usage from their nation on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there
were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away and made their escape to that side, lived
there at peace indeed with the savages, but were very sore put
to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all the
particulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish
ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the Havannah, being
too great for us to resist. His rst opinion was, that the ’TJ
\
y
T/ie Spaniard’s Story. . 219
directed to leave their loading there, which was chiey hides
and silver, and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there; that they had ve Portuguese seamen on
board, whom they took out of another wreck ; that ve of their
own men were drowned when the rst ship was lost, and that
these escaped through innite dangers and hazards, and arrived
almost starved on the cannibal coast, where they expected to
have been- devoured every moment. He told me they had some _
arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for that they
had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having
spoiled all their powder but a little, which they used at their
rst landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him What he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed no design of making any escape? He
said they had-many consultations about it, but that having
neither vessel nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any
kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair. I asked
him how he thought theywould receive a proposal from me which
might tend towards an escape? and whether, if they were all
here, it might not be done? I told him with freedom I feared
mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me if I put my life in
their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the
nature of man, nor did men always square their dealings by
the obligations they had received, so much as they did by the
advantages they expected. I told him it would be very hard
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that
they should afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain,
where an Englishman was certain to be made a sacrice, what
necessity or what accident soever brought him thither; and
that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be de-
voured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the priests,
and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I _
was persuaded, if they were all here, we might with so many
hands build a barque large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast
northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I had
put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their
own people, I might be ill-used for my kindness to them, and
’ make my case worse than it was before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuous-
ness, that their condition was so miserable, and they werepso
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought
of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance 5 and that, if I pleased, he would go to them with
the old man, and discourse with them about it, and return
again, and bring me their answer: that he would make con-
ditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be
absolutely under my leading as their commander and captain 5
and that they should swear upon the holy sacraments and the
gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as I
should agree to, and no other 5 and to be directed wholly and
absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such
country as I intended 5 and that he would bring a contract
from them under their hands for that purpose. Then he told
me he would rst swear to me himself, that he would never
stir from me as long as he lived till I gave him orders 5 and
that he would take side to the last drop of his blood if
there should happen the least breach of faith among his
countrymen. He told me they were all of them very civil,
honest men, and they were under the greatest distress im-
aginable, having neither weapons nor clothes nor any food, but
at the mercy and discretion of the savages 5 out of all hopes
of ever returning to their own country 5 and that he was sure,
if I would undertake their relief, they would live and die
by me. 4
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them
if possible, and to send the old savage and the Spaniard over
to them to treat 5 but when we had got all things in readiness
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other hand, that I could not but be very well satised in
it; and by his advice put off the deliverance of his comrades
for at least half-a-year. The case was thus :——He had been
with us now about a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of
Providence, for my support 5 and he saw evidently what stock
of corn and rice I had laid up, which, as it was more than
suicient for myself, so it was not suicient, at least Without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four.
But much less would it be sufcient if his countrymen, who
The Spaniard’s Counsel. _ 221 '
were, as he said, sixteen still alive, should come over; and
least of all would it be sufcient to victual our vessel, if we
should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies
of America. So he told me he thought it would be more
advisable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some
more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we
should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of
corn for his countrymen when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one difculty into
another. “ You know,” says he, “ the children of Israel, though
they rejoiced at rst for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God Himself that delivered them, when
they came to want bread in the wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well
as I was satised with his delity. So we fell to digging, all
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted ; and in about a month’s time, by the end of which
it Was seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed
up as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on and sixteen
jars of rice—which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare :
nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufcient for our
own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop ;
that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside
for sowing, for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
groundin that country.
Having new society enough, and our number being sufcient
to put us out of fear of the savages if they had come, unless
their number had been very great, we went freely all over the
island, wherever we found occasion; and as here we had our
escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. For this
purpose I marked out several trees which I thought t for our
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them down;
and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my
thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed' a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about _a dozen large planks of good oak,
near two feet broad, thirty-ve feet long, and from two inches
to four inches thick. What prodigious labour it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little ock of
tame goats as much as I could, and for this purpose I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day—for we took our turns—and by this
means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest 3 for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our ock. But above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious [quantity to
be hung up in the sun, that I believe had we been at Alicant,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have lled
sixty or eighty barrels. And these with our bread was a great
part of our food; and very good living too, I assure you, for
they are exceedingly nourishing. '
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but
however it was enough to answer our end 3 for from our
twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and thrashed out
above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like in pro-
portion of the rice 3 which was store enough for our food to
the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on
shore with me : or if we had been ready for a voyage, it would
very plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to
any part of the world—that is to say, of America. When we
had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to
work to make more wicker-ware—viz., great baskets in which
we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work 3 but I saw no need
of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to
see what he could do with those he had left behind him there.
I gave him a strict charge in writing not to bring any man
with him who would not rst swear, in the presence of himself
and of the old savage, that he would no way injure, ght with,
or attack the person he should nd in the island, who was so'
kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance 3 but
More Visitors! ’ 223-
that they would stand by and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command, and that this should be put in .
writing, and signed with their hands. How we were to have \
this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink—that
indeed was a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage,
the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which
_ they might be said to have come in, or rather were brought in,
when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket with a relock on it, and about
eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very
good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasion.
This was a cheerful work, being the rst measures used by
me, .in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years
and some days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried
grapes sufcient for themselves for many days, and sufcient
for all the Spaniards for about eight days’ time; and wishing
them a good voyage, I saw them go, agreeing with them about
a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again when they came back at a distance,
before they came on shore. They went away with a fair gale
on the day that the moon was at full by my account, in the
month of October. But as for an exact reckoning of days,
after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be
sure that I was right ; though, as it proved, when I afterwards
examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of
years. _
It was no less than eight days I had .waited for them, when
a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the
like has not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast
'asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday
came running in to me and called aloud, “Master, master,
they are come, they are come !” I jumped up, and, regard-
less of danger, I went out as soon as I could get my
clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way,
was by this time grown to be a very thick wood; I say,
regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which was not
Rooz'usou Crusoe. ~ I
Q
my custom to do 5 but I was surprised when, turning my eyes
to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a-half’s
distance, standing in for the shore with a shoulder-of-mutton
sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring
them in 5 also I observed, presently, that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the southern-
most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked for, '
and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-
glass, to see what I could make of them 5 and having taken the
ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to
do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view
the plainer without being discovered. I had scarce set my
foot on the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying
at an anchor, at about two leagues and a-half’s distance from
. me south-south-east, but not above a league and a-half from
the shore. 'By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen and consequently friends, was such as
I cannot describe. But yet I had some secret doubts hung
about me—I cannot tell from whence they came—bidding me
keep upon my guard. In the rst place, it occurred to me to
consider what business an English ship could have in that part
of the world, since it was not the way to or from any part of
the world where the English had any trafc 5 and I knew there
had been‘ no storms to drive them in there as in distress 5 and
that if they were really English, it was most probable that
they were here upon no good design, and that I had better
continue as I was than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers. '
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger '
which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no
possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of
things can deny; ’that they are certain discoveries of an invisible
world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt 5 and if the
tendency of them seems to be to warn' us of danger, why
Englishmen this time. 225
should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent—
whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question;
and that they are given for our good? '
The present question abundantly conrms me in the justice
of this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this
secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been
undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as
you will see presently. I had not kept myself long in this
posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at for the convenience of landing.
However, as they did not come quite far enough, they did not
see the little inlet (where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran
their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half-a-mile from
me ; which was very happy for me ; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered
me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully
satised that they were Englishmen, at least most of them.
One or two I thought were Dutch; but it did not prove so.
There Were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found
Were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the rst
four or ve of them were jumped on shore, they took those
three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the three I could
perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afiction,
and despair, even to a kind of. extravagance ; the other two, I
could perceive, lifted up their hand sometimes, and appeared
concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the rst. I was
perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English,
as well as he could, “Oh, master! you see English mans eat
prisoner as well as savage mans.” “Why, Friday,” says I, “do
you think they are going to eat them, then 1” “Yes,” says
Friday, “ they will eat them.” “ N o, no, Friday,” says I; “ I
am afraid they will murder them indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them.” - .
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting
every moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay,
once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cut-
lass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor
Q
men; and I expected to see him fall every moment, at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I
wished heartin now for the Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him, or that I had any way to have come undis-
covered within shot of them, that I might have rescued the
three men, for I saw no rearms they had among them ; but it
fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed the
outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like
men in despair. This put me in mind of the rst time when
I came on shore and began to look about me 3 how I gave my-
self over for lost ; how wildly I looked round me 3 what
dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the tree
all night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I
knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by the
providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the storms
and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished and
supported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near it was
to them, and how effectually and really they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought themselves lost,
and their case desperate. So little do we see before us in the
world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst circum~
stances they have always something to be thankful for, and'
sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine 5 nay,
are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which
they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came
on shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the pri-
soners they had, and partly while they rambled about to see
what kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed
till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in
the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too
much brandy, fell asleep ; however, one of them waking sooner
Prepares for Battle. 227
than the other, and nding the boat too fast aground for him
to stir it, hallooed out for the rest who were straggling about,
upon which they soon all came to the boat; but it was past all
their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and
the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like
a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they
gave it over, and away they strolled about the country again ;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling them off
from the boat, “Why, let her alone, Jack, can’t you ; she’ll
oat next tide ;” by which I was fully conrmed in the main
inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this while I kept -
myself very close, not once daring to stir out of my castle any
farther than to my place of observation near the top of the hill ;
and very glad I was to think how well it was fortied. I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could oat
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at
more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse,
if they had any. In the meantime I tted myself up for a
battle as before, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than I had at rst. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his
gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself my two
fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My gure
indeed was very erce : I had my formidable goat-skin coat on,
with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my
side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark ; but about two o’clock, being the heat
of the day, I found that in short they were all gone straggling
into the woods, and, as I thought, were laid down to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter of
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved
to discover myself to them, and learn something of their con-
dition. Immediately I marched in the gure as above, my
_man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for
his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
gure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could,
and then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them
in Spanish, “What are ye, gentlemen?” They started up at
. the noise, but were ten times more confounded when they saw
me, and the uncouth gure that I made. They made no
answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to y
from me, when I spoke to them in English. “Gentlemen,”
said I, “do not be surprised at me 5 perhaps you may have a
friend near you when you did not expect it.” “He must be
sent directly from heaven then,” said one of them very gravely
to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me 5 “for
our condition is past the help of man.” “ All help is from
Heaven, sir,” said I 5 “ but can you put a stranger in the way
to help you, for you seem to be in some great distress? I saw
you when you landed 5 and when you seemed to make applica-
tion to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to kill you.”
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trem-
bling, looking like one astonished, returned, “ Am I talking to
God or man? Is it a real man or an angel?” “ Be in no fear
about that, sir,” said I 5 “if God had sent an angel to relieve
you, he would have come better clothed, and armed after
another manner than you see me in. Pray lay aside your fears 5
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you see.
I have one servant only 5 we have arms and ammunition 5 tell
us freely. Can we serve you? What is your case!” “Our
case, sir,” said he, “is too long to tell you while our murderers
are so near 5 but in short, sir, I was commander of that ship;
my men have mutinied against me; they have been hardly
prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have set me on
shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me—one
my mate, the other a passenger—where we expected to perish,
believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what
to think of it.” “Where are those brutes your enemies?” said
I 5 “do you know where they are gone?” “There they lie,
sir,” said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. “ My heart trembles
for fear they have seen us and heard you speak 5 if they have,
they will certainly murder us all.” “Have they any rearms?”
said I. He answered, “They had only two pieces, and one
which they left in the boat.” “ Well then,” said I, “leave the
rest to me 5 I see they are all asleep 5 it is an easy thing to kill
9
Mahes Stringent Conditions. 229
them all ; but shall we rather take them prisoners 1” He told
me there were two desperate villains among them that it was
scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were secured, he _
believed all the rest would return to their duty. I asked him
which they were. He told me he could not at that distance
distinguish them ; but he would obey my orders in anything I
would direct. “Well,” says I, “let us retreat out of their
view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve further.”
So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered
us from them.
“Look you, sir,” said I, “if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me 2” He antici-
pated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if
recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
everything; but if the ship was not recovered, he would live
and die with me in what part of the world soever I would send
him; and the two other men said the same. “Well,” says I,
“ my conditions are but two—rst, that while you stay on this
island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here;
and if I put arms into your hands, you will upon all occasions
give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon '
this island, and in the meantime be governed by my orders;
secondly, that if the ship is or may be recovered, you will carry
me and my man to England passage free.
He gave me all the assurances that the invention and faith of
man could devise, that he would comply with these most
reasonable demands, and besides would owe his life to me, and
acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he lived. “ Well
then,” said I, “here are three muskets for you, with powder
and ball ; tell me next what you think is proper to be done.”
He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able,
but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought
it was hard venturing anything; but the best method I could
think of was to re upon them at once as they lay; and if any
were not killed at the rst volley, and offered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon God’s providence
to direct the shot. He said, very modestly, that he was loath -
to kill them if he could help it, but that those‘two were incor-
rigible villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship, and if they escaped we should be undone still, for
they would go on board and bring the whole ship’s company
and destroy us all. “Well, then,” says I, “necessity legiti-
mates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives.”
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them were of the men who he had said
were the heads of the mutiny? He said, “N 0.” “Well,
then,” said I, “you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
N ow,” says I, “if the rest escape you, it is your fault.”
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in
his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with
him, with each 'man a piece in his hand. The two men who
were with him, going rst, made some noise, at which one of
the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing. them
coming, cried out to the rest. But it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out they red~I mean the two men, the
captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well
aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them was
killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but
not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly
for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him, told
him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to
forgive his villainy, and with that word knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he neVer spoke more.
There were three more in the company, and one of them was
slightly wounded. By this time I was come, and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives
if they would give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be
faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carry-
ing her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired,
and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which
I was not against; only I obliged him to keep them bound
hand and foot while they were upon the island.
The First V ietory. 231
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain’s mate
to the boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the oars
and sails; which they did. And by-and-by three straggling
men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came


I/ "‘
. y- / P“ g
1| i.
'15
it
,5 e ,7 - .\ i M ‘ .v‘ .
“EM,” _
_ g H
“HE KNOCKED Hlltl DO\VN \VITH THE STOCK OF HIS LIUSKET-n
back upon hearing the guns red; and seeing their captain,
who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bound also ; and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into
one another’s circumstances. I began rst, and told him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to
amazement; and particularly at the wonderful manner of my
being furnished with provisions and ammunition. And,
indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected
him deeply. But when he reected from thence upon himself,
and how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to
save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not
speak a word more. After this communication was at an end, I
carried him and his two men into my apartment, leading them
in just where I came out—viz., at the top of the house, where
I refreshed him with such provision as I had, and showed them
all the contrivances I had made during my long, long inhabit-
ing that place. _
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing 5 but above all, the captain admired my fortication,
ind how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of
trees, which, having been now planted near twenty years, and
the trees growing much faster than in England, was become a
little wood, so thick that it was impassable in any part of it
but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my resi-
dence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show
him that too another time, but at present our business was to
consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to
that, but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to
take 5 for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board,
who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in
it now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if
they were subdued they would be brought to the gallows as
soon as they came to England, or to any of the English colonies;
and that therefore there would be no attacking them with so
small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he said, and found it was
a very rational conclusion; and that therefore something was
to be resolved on very speedily, as well to draw the men on
board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their
Preparing for Defence. 233
landing upon us and destroying us. Upon this it presently
occurred to me that in a little while the ship’s crew, wondering
what was become of their comrades and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat to seek for them,
and that then perhaps they might come armed, and be too
strong for us. This he allowed was rational. Upon this I told
him the rst thing we had to do was to stave the boat which
lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her off,
and, taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as
not to be t to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took
the arms which were left on board out of her, and what-
ever else we found there—which was a bottle of brandy and
another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a
great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was ve
or six pounds) ; all which was very welcome to me, especially
the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for many
ears.
y When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as
above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had
some strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off
the boat. Indeed it was not much in my thoughts that we
could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if
they went away without the boat, I did not much question to
make her again t to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call
upon our friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still
in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had rst, by
main strength, heaved the boat up upon the beach, so high that
the tide would not oat her ed at high-water mark, and, besides,
had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped,
and were set down musing what we should do, we heard the-
ship re a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ensign as a
signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat stirred; and
they red several times, making other signals for the boat. At
last, when all their signals and ring proved fruitless, and they
found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my
glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found as they approached that there were no less than ten
men in her, and that they had rearms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a
full view of them as they came, and a plain sight of the men,
even of their faces; because the tide having set them a little
to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore to
come to the same place where the other had landed, and where
the boat lay. By this means, I say, we had a full view of
them, and the captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat, of whom he said that there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being. overpowered and frightened; but that
as for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief oicer among
them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the
ship’s crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their new
enterprize ; and terribly apprehensive he was that they would
be too powerful for us. I smiled at him, and told him that
men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear : that
seeing almost every condition that could be was better than
that which we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that
the consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circum-
stances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth
venturing for? “And where, sir,” said I, “is your belief of
my being preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part,” said I, “ there
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.”
“What is that 2” says he. “Why,” said I, “it is that, as you
say, there are three or four honest fellows among them, which
should be spared. Had they been all of the wicked part of
the crew, I should have thought God’s providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon
it, every man that comes ashore is our own, and shall die or
live as he behaves to us.” As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him ;
so we set vigorously to our business.
We had upon the rst appearance of the boat’s coming from
the ship considered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed
secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain
was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of
the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of
New Invaders. 235
nding their way out of the woods, if they could have de-
livered themselves. Here they left them bound, but gave them
provisions, and promised them, if they continued there quietly,
to give them their liberty in a day or two; but_if they at-
tempted their escape, they should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their connement
with patience, and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their com-
fort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over
them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them were
kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to trust
them; but the other two were taken into my service upon their
captain’s recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to
live and die with us. So with them and the three honest men
we were seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt we
should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were
coming, considering that the captain had said there were three
or four honest men am0ng them also. As soon as they got to
the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into
the beach and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after
them; which I was glad to see, for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the
shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the rst thing
they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to
see they were under a great surprise to nd her stripped, as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they
could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose.
Then they came all close in a ring, and red a volley of their
small arms; which indeed we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring: but it was all one; those in the cave, we were
sure, could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they
heard. it well enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They
were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us
afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know there that the men were all murdered, and
J
the long-boat staved. Accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at
this, believing they would go on board the ship again, and set
sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still
lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered.
But he was quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, when we
perceived them all coming on shore again 5 but with this new
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted
together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, and the rest
to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for their
fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men on
shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape 5
because they would row away to the ship, and then therest of
them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering
the ship would be lost. However, we had no remedy but to
wait and see what the issue of things might present. The
seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the
boat put her off to a good distance from the shore, and came
to an anchor to wait for them 5 so that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore
kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill
under which my habitation lay 5 and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We should have been
very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have red at them, or that they would have gone farther
off, that we might have come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-east
part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far
from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together
under a tree to consider it. Had they thought t to have gone
to sleep there, as the other party of them had done, they had
done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions
of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell
what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this con-
A Successful Stratagem. 237 -
sultation of theirs, viz. , that perhaps they would all re a volley
again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we
should all sally upon them just at the juncture when their
pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, and
we should have them without bloodshed. I liked this pro-
posal, provided it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them before they could load their pieces again. But this
event did not happen, and we lay still a long time, very
irresolute what course to take. At length I told them there
would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if
they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might nd a way
to get between them and the shore, and so might use some
stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore. We
waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing;
and were very uneasy when, after long consultation, we saw
them all start up and march down towards the sea. It seems
they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the
place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give
their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be as it really was, that they had given over their search,
and were going back again ; and the captain, as soon as I told
him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it;
but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again,
and which answered my end to a tittle. _ I ordered Friday and
the captain’s mate to go over the little creek westward, towards
the place where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued ; and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at
about half-a-mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they
could, and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that
as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should
return it again; and then, keeping out of sight, take a round,
always answering when the others hallooed to draw them as
far into the island and among the woods as possible, and then
Wheel about again to me by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed; and they presently heard them, and answering, ran
along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the water
being up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to
come up and set them over; as indeed I expected. When
they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat, being
gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour
within the land, they took one of the three men out of her to
go along with them, and left only two in the boat, having
fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and
the captain’s mate to their business, I took the rest with me,
and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two
men before they were aware ; one of them lying on the shore,
and the other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was
between sleeping and waking, and going to start up ; the cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down, and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he
was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to persuade
a single man to yield, when he saw ve men upon him, and
his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of
the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In the meantime
Friday and the captain’s mate so well managed their business
with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answering,
from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till '
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they could not reach back to the boat before' it
was dark ; and indeed they were heartily tired themselves also
by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them.
It wasseveral hours after Friday came back to me before they
came back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of
them, long before they came quite up, calling to those behind
to come along ; and could also hear them answer, and complain
how lame and tired they were, and not 'able to come any
faster—which was very welcome news to us. At length-they
came up to the boat ; but it is impossible to express their con-
fusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gone! We could hear them
call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one
The Mntineers Ontgeneratlea’. 239
another they were got into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered ; or else there were devils and spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured. They hallooed again,
and called their two comrades by their names a great_many
times; but no answer. After some time, we could see them,
by the little light there was, run about, wringing their hands
like men in despair, and sometimes they would go and sit
down in the boat to rest themselves: then come ashore again,
and walk about again, and so the same thing over again. My
men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to take them at
some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few of them
as I could ; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the kill—
ing any of our own men, knowing the others were very well
armed. I resolved to wait to see if they did not separate ; and
therefore to make sure of them I drew my ambusoade nearer,
and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands
and feet as close to the ground as they could, that they might I
not be discovered, and get as near them as they possibly could,
before they offered to re.
They had not been long in that posture, but that the boat-
swain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all
the rest, came walking towards them with two more of their
crew. The captain was so eager at having this principal rogue
so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as to be sure of him ; for they only heard
his tongue before. But when they came nearer, the captain
and Friday, starting upon their feet, let y at them. The
boatswain was killed upon the spot ; the next man was shot in
the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an
hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the noise of
the re I immediately advanced with my whole army, which
was now eight men—viz., myself generalissimo, Friday my
lieutenant-general, the captain and his two men, and the three
prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms. We came
upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not see our
number; and I made the man we had left in the boat, who
was now one of us, call to them by name, to try if I could
bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to
terms 5 which fell out just as we desired. For indeed it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would be very
willing to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to
one of them, “Tom Smith! Tom Smith!” Tom Smith
answered immediately, “Who’s that, Robinson?” for it seems
he knew his voice. The other answered, “ Ay, ay 5 for God’s
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment.” “ Who must we yield to? What
are they ?” says Smith again. “Here they are,” says he;
“here’s our captain, and fty men with him, have been hunt-
ing you these two hours 5 the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is
wounded, and I am a prisoner 5 and if you do not yield, you
are all lost.” “Will they give us quarter, then,” says Tom
Smith, “ and we will yield?” “I’ll go and ask, if you promise
to yield,” says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the
captain himself then calls out, “You, Smith, you know my
voice 5 if you lay down your arms immediately and submit,
you shall have your lives—all but Will Atkins.”
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, “For God’s sake, captain,
give me quarter 5 what have I done? They have all been as
bad as I 5” which, by the way, was not true neither 5 for it
seems this Will Atkins was the rst man that laid hold of the .
captain when they rst mutinied, and used him barbarously,
in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language. How-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy 5 by which he meant
me, for they all called me governor. In a word, they all laid
down their arms, and begged their lives 5 and I sent the man -
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them
all; and then my great army of fty ‘men, which, particularly
with those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat—only that I kept myself and
one more out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing
the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to par-
ley with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy
of their practices with him, and at length upon the further
wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must bring
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
Securing the Prisoners. 241
gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their' lives. As for that, he told them they were none of
his prisoners, but the commander of the island: that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island, but it had pleased God so to direct them that the island
was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman:
that he might hang them all there if he pleased ; but as he had
given them all quarter, be supposed he would send them to
England to be dealt with there as justice required—except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to
prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all but a ction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain
to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God’s sake, that they might not be sent to
England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what
kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to me.
, When I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, “ Captain, the
commander calls for you ;” and presently the captain replied,
“Tell his Excellency I am just coming.” This more perfectly
amazed them, and they all believed that the commander was
just by with his fty men. Upon the captain coming to me I
told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked
wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning. But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and
that he should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst
of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others,
lay. This was committed to Friday and the two men who
came on shore with the captain. They conveyed them to the
cave as to a prison : and it was indeed a dismal place, especi-
ally to men in their condition. The others I ordered to my
bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full description ;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure
enough, considering they were upon their behaviour;
r.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter
into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me
whether he thought they might be trusted or not to go on board
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done
him, of the condition they were brought to ; and that though
the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England they would
all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would
join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have
the governor’s engagement for their pardon.
Anyone may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition. They fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest impreca-
tions, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and
that they should owe their lives to him, and would go with him
all over the world; that they would own him for a father to
them as long as they lived. “Well,” says the captain, “I
must go and tell the governor what you say, and see what I
can do to bring him to consent to it.” So he brought me an
account of the temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful. However, that we might be
very secure, I told him he should go back again, and choose
out ve of them, and tell them they might see he did not want
men ; that he would take out ve of them to be his assistants,
and that the governor would keep the other two, and the three
that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages for‘
the delity of those ve; and that if they proved unfaithful
in the execution, the ve hostages should be hanged in chains
alive upon the shore. This looked severe, and convinced them
that the governor was in earnest. However, they had no way
left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business of the
prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other ve
to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
rst, the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two
prisoners of the rst gang, to Whom, having their characters
from the captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them
with arms ; third, the other two whom I had kept till now in
my apartment pinioned, but upon the captain’s motion had now
released ,' fourth, these ve released last : so that they were
The Ship Recovered. 243
twelve in all, besides ve we kept prisoners in the “cave for
hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these
hands on board the ship ; for as for me and my man Friday, I
did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men
left behind, and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder and supply them with victuals. As to the ve in the
cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice
a-day to them to supply-them with necessaries; and I made
the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had
ordered to look after them, and that it was the governor’s
pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction;
that if they did they should be fetched into the castle and be
laid in irons. So that as we never suffered them to see me as
governor, so I now appeared as, another person, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain now had no difculty before him but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He
made his passenger captain of one, with four other men; and
himself, his mate, and six more, went in the other: And they
contrived their business very well, for they came up to the
ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time
before they had found them, and the like, holding them in a
chat till they came to the ship’s side; when the captain and
the mate, entering rst with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of. their
muskets. Being very faithfully seconded by their men, they
secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-decks,
and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down who were
below; when the other boat and their men, entering at the
fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men they
found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon‘
deck, the captain ordered the mate with three men to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, who,
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a
boy had got rearms in their hands 5 and when the mate with
a crow split open the door, the new captain and his men red
boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket-
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men,
but killed nobody. The mate, calling for help, rushed however
into the round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at
his mouth and came out again behind one of his ears, so that
he never spoke a word 5 upon which the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be red, which was the signal agreed upon with
me to give me notice of his success 5 which, you may be sure, _
I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till near two o’clock in the morning. Having thus heard
the signal plainly, I laid me down 5 and it‘having been a day
of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was some-
thing surprised with the noise of a gun 5 and presently starting
up, I heard a man call me by the name of “Governor,
governor 5” and presently I knew the captain’s voice, when,
climbing up to the top. of the hill, there he stood, and pointing
to the ship he embraced me in his arms. “ My dear friend and
deliverer,” says he, “there’s your ship; for she is all yours,
and so are we and all that belong to her.” I cast my eyes to
the ship, and there she rode within little more than half-a-mile
of the shore 5 for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and the weather being fair, had brought
her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek 5
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in
- near the place where I had rst landed my rafts, and so landed
just at my door. I was at rst ready to sink down with the
surprise 5 for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At rst, for some time, I was .
not able to answer him one word 5 but as he had taken me in
his arms I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground. He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial which
...v L r__ fw...
r . \ . .. .... .. .. C
r“. a. _ ' .. (02w”-1-; . .5 .
f . a .  . _ .. ... 1 /
_ r I. ...
a... , . .. _ . ..
. .... z . i .l. . .
n . _ .. . .. ...; .
... a a 1. _i v. *3 ..r
.. . ...... .2 . .


1.
\,s
1 .
v ..
.
..
_. s .
. .
. .
_ a
.. \
.\. .
n. .v ‘-
1. .u
I
_
.
v
.
_
“Inn
I“
A r |
- . in
a I .
T
0
a.
..
~
.
.... 0.
r..'~
s.
v.<_ .
“‘1‘ a
10;...
1.... a. \
1" 3. ,
J-j.’ . -
-.>Hw.. ...
_wlv .
1 '
M UTINEERS DEFEATED.
THE
R. c., p. 244
I. .
K
v i
,
1‘ I
.
u .. _
r» '
i 1' f
; .
L ,
It. '
. .
.
l - .
.
_ ,.
.
\ .
l
l.
.I. I
. ,.
., ..
'he had brought on purpose for me. After I had drunk it, I
sat down upon the ground; and though it brought me to
myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a word to
him. All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise as I was; and he said a
thousand kind and tender things to me to compose and bring
me to myself; but such was the ood of joy in my breast, that
it put all my spirits into confusion. At last it broke out into
tears, and in a little while after I recovered my speech. Then
I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and we
rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man
sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these
were the testimonies we had of. a secret hand of Providence
governing the world, and an evidence that the eyes of an
Innite Power could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven:
and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had not only
in a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness,
and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliver-
ance must always be acknowledged to proceed. ‘
When we had talked a while, the captain told'me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had
not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat,
and bade his men bring the things, ashore that were for the
governor; and indeed it was a present, as if I had been one
that was not to be carried away with them, but as if I had
been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go without
me. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent
cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles
held two quarts apiece), two pounds of excellent good tobacco,
twelve good pieces of the ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-weight of biscuit.
He also brought me a box of sugar, a box of our, a bag full
of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of
other things; But besides these, and what ~was a thousand
times more useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts,
six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes
of his own, which had been worn but very little : in a word,
he clothed me from head to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in my cir-
cumstances 5 but never was anything in the world of that kind
so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear
such clothes at their rst putting on. ‘
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
\ were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult
What was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was
worth considering whether we might venture to take them away
with us or no, especially two of them, whom he knew to be
incorrigible and refractory to the last degree 5 and the captain
said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging
them, and if he did carry them,away, it must be in irons, as
malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at the rst English
colony he should come at. And I found that thecaptain him-
self was very anxious about it.
Upon this I told him that, if he desired it, I would under-
take to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own
request that he should leave them upon the island. “I should
be very glad of that,” says the captain, “ with all my heart.”
“Well,” Says I, “I will send for them up, and talk with
them for you.” So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for
they were now discharged, their comrades having performed
their promise 5 I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and
bring up the ve men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came.
After some time I came thither dressed in my new habit 5
and now I was called governor again. Being all met, and the
captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before me,
and I told them I had got a full account of their villainous
behaviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the
ship, and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that
Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that
they were fallen into the pit which they had dug for others.~
I let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized 5
that she lay now in the road 5 and they might see by-and-by
that their new captain had received the reward of his villainy,
for that they might see him hanging at the yard-arm 5 that as
Spares the Matineers’ Lives. 247
to them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I should
not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my com-
mission they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken the
captain promised them their lives, and they humbly implored
my mercy. But I told them I knew not what mercy to show
them ; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island with
all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go for
‘ England; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny
and running away with the ship, the consequence of which,
they must needs know, would be the gallows : so that I could
not tell which was best for them, unless they had a mind to
take their fate in the island. If they desired that (I did not
care, as I had liberty to leave it), I had some inclination to
give them their lives if they thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much
rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be
hanged. So I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difculty of it, '
as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a
little angry with the captain, and told him that they were my
prisoners, not his; and that, seeing I had offered them so much
favour, I would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think t to consent to it, I would set them at liberty as I found
them, and if he did not like it, he might take them again if he
could catch them. Upon this they appeared very thankful,
and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the woods to the place whence they came, and I would
leave them some rearms, some ammunition, and some directions
how they should live very well, if they thought t. Upon this
I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the captain that I
would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to
go on board in the meantime and keep all right in the ship, and ‘
send the boat on shere the next day for me ; ordering him, in
the meantime, to cause the new captain, who was killed, to be
hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them
I on their circumstances. I told them I thought they had made
a right choice; that if the captain had carried them away, they
would certainly be hanged. I showed them the newcaptain v
hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then
told them I would let them into the story of my living there,
and put them into the way of making it easy to them.
Accordingly I gave them the whole history of the place ‘and of
my coming to it; showed them my fortications, the way I
made my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and in a
word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be ex-
pected, for whoin I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves.
I .left them my rearms, viz., ve muskets, three fowling-
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a-half of
powder left ; for after the rst year or two I used but little and
wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I managed
the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and to make
both butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every part of
my own story; and I told them I would prevail with the _
captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and
some garden-seeds, which I told them I would have been very
glad of; also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and in-
crease them. -
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not
weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the ve
men came swimming to the ship’s side, and making the most
lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to be taken
into the ship for God’s sake, for they should be murdered, and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he hanged
' them immediately. Upon this the captain pretended to have
no power without me. But after some difculty, and after
their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were sometime after soundly whipped and pickled ;
after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows. ,
Some time after this the boat Was ordered on shore, the tide
Returns to England. - 249
being up, with the things promised to the men ; to which the
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to
be added; which they took, and were very thankful for. I also
encouraged them, by telling them, that if it lay 'in my power
to send any vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for
relics the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and
my parrot; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly
mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless that it was
grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver till
it had been a little rubbed and handled ; as also the moneyI
found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island the 19th of December, as I found .
by the ship’s account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days ;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the
month that I rst made my escape in the Barco Longo from
among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage,
I arrived in England the llth of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty-ve years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all
the world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor
and faithful steward, whom I had left in trust with my money,
was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world; was
become a widow the second time, and very low in the world.
i I made her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude for her
former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little
stock would afford, which at that time would indeed allow me
to do but little. for her ; but I assured her I would never forget ,
her former kindness to me: nor did I forget her when I had
suicient to help-her, as shall be observed 'in its proper place.
I- went down afterwards into Yorkshire, but my father was
dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I
found two sisters and two of the children of one of my
brothers; and as I had been long ago given over for dead, there
had been no provision made for me: so that, in a word, I found
nothing to relieve or assist me, and that the little money I had
would not do much for me as to settling in the world. "
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect 5 and this was, that the master of the ship, whom I had
so happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and
cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other merchants con-
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment
upon the subject, and a present of almost £200 sterling.
But after making several reections upon the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this would go towards settling
me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might
not come by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brazils, and of what was become of my partner, who I
had reason to suppose had some years now given me over for
dead. With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following 5 my man Friday accompanying me
very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most faith-
ful servant upon all occasions. When I came to Lisbon, I
found out by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my old
friend, the captain of the ship who rst took me up at sea off
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off
going to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me, and indeed I hardly knew him. ‘
But I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon
brought myself to his remembrance when I told him who
I was. ‘ .
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation-
and my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the
Brazils for about nine years 5 but that he could assure me, that
when he came away my partner was living, but the trustees
whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of my part
‘ were both dead. That, however, he believed that I would have
a very good account of the improvement of the plantation : for
that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the produce
of my part of the plantation to the procurator-scal, who had
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it—one-third to
the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to
be expended for the benet of the poor, and for the conversion
Estate in the Brazils. - 251
of the Indians tothe Catholic faith; but that, if I appeared,
or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it should be restored,
only that the improvement or annual production being dis-
tributed to charitable uses, could not be restored. But he
assured me that the steward of the king’s revenue from lands,
and the provedidore, or steward of the monastery, had taken
great care all along that the incumbent—that is to say, my
partner—gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of
which they had duly received my moiety. I asked him if he
knew to what height of improvement he had brought the
plantation, and whether he thought it might be worth looking
after? or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any
obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety. He
told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation
was improved ; but this he knew, that my partner was grown
exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one-half of it ; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the king’s
third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some
other monastery or religious house, amounted to above two
hundred moidores a year: that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of
that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my name
being also enrolled in the register of the country. Also, he
told me that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair,
honest people, and very wealthy ; and he believed I would not
only have their assistance for putting me in possession, but
would nd a very considerable sum of money in their hands
for my account, being the produce of the farm while their
fathers held the trust, and before it was given up as above,
which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the
trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that
I had made my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true ; but that, as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor until some
certain account should come of my death, and that, besides, he
was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote ; that it
was true he had registered my will, and put in his claim ; and
could he have given any account of my being dead or alive, he
would have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the
ingenio (so they call the sugar-house), and have given his son,
Who was now at the Brazils, orders to do it. “But,” says the
old man, “ I have one piece of news to tell you, which perhaps
may not be so acceptable to you as the rest, and that is, believ-
ing you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account to me, in your name,
for the rst six or eight years’ prots, which I received; but
there being at that time,” says he, “great disbursements for
increasing the works, building an z'ugenz'o, and buying slaves, it
did not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced.
However,” says the old man, “ I shall give you a true account
of what I have received in all, and how I have disposed
of it.”
After a few days’ further conference with this ancient friend,
he brought me an account of the rst six years’ income of my
plantation, signed by my partner and the merchant-trustees,
~ being always delivered in goods—viz., tobacco in roll, and
sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, ‘&c., which is the conse—
quence of a sugar—work ; and I found by this account that-
every year the income considerably increased, but, as above,
the disbursements ,being large, the sum at rst was- small.
However, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me
four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests
of sugar, and fteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in
his ship ; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon
about eleven years after my leaving the place. ‘ The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had
been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a new ship. “ However, my old
friend,” says he, “ you shall not want a supply in your neces-
sity; and as soon as my son returns you shall be fully
satised.” Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me
160 Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving me the writing of his
title to ‘the ship which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of
which he was a quarter-part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both into my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the
poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he
'A n Honouraole Portuguese. .253
had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how
generously he had used me on all occasions, and particularly
how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain "
,Weeping at what he said to me. Therefore rst I asked him if
his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money -at that
time, and if it would not straiten him? He told me he could
not say but it might straiten him a little ; but, however, it was
my money, and I might want it more than he. '
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I
could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In short, I
took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink
to give him a receipt for them ; then I returned him the rest,
and told him if ever I had possession of the plantation I would
return the other to him also (as indeed I afterwards did) : and
that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son’s ship, I would
not take it by any means ; but that if I wanted the money, I
found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if I did not, but
came’ to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him.
When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put
me into a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told
, him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so
if I pleased, but that if I did not, there were ways enough to
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the prots to
my use. And as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just
ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his afdavit, afrming upon oath that I
\ was alive, and that I was the same person who took‘ up the
land for the planting the said plantation at rst. This being
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration aixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant
.of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my staying I
with him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings
upon this procuration ; fer in less than seven months I received
a large packet from the survivors of my trustees the merchants,
for whose account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers enclosed. ~
First, There was the account-current of the produce of my
farm or plantation from the year when their fathers had
.
' balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six years.
The balance appeared to be 117 4 moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while
they kept the effects in their hands, before the government
claimed the administration, as being the effects of a person not
to be found, which they called civil death 5 and the balance of
this, the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to 38,892
cruisadoes, which made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the Prior of St. Augustine’s account,
who had received the prots for above fourteen years 5 but not
being to account for what was disposed to the hospital, very
honestly declared he had 872 moidores not distributed, which
he acknowledged to my account; as to the king’s part, that
refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner’s, congratulating me very
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how
the estate was improved, and what it produced a year, with the
particulars of the number of squares or acres that it contained,
how planted, how many slaves there were upon it ; and making
two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told me he had said so
many Ave Marias to thank the Blessed Virgin I was alive 5
inviting me very passionately to come over and take possession
of my own, and in the meantime to give him orders to whom
he should deliver my effects if I did not come myself 5 conclud-
ing with a hearty tender of his friendship and that of his
family, and sent me as a present seven ne leopards’ skins,
which he had, it seems, received from Africa by some other
ship which he had sent thither, and which, it seems, had made
a better voyage than I. ‘ He sent me also ve chests of excellent
sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidores. By the same eet, my two merchant-
trustees shipped me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls "of tobacco,
and the rest of the whole account in gold. I
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of J ob was
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the
utterings of my very heart when I looked over these letters,
and especially when I found all my wealth about me; for as
the Brazil ships come all in eets, the same ships which brought
my letters brought my goods, and the effects were safe in the
river before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned
Overcome with _‘foy. 255
pale, and grew sick ; and had not the old man run and fetched
me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset
nature, and I had died upon the spot. Nay, after that I con-
tinued very ill, and was so some hours, till a physician being
sent for, and something of the real cause of my illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had relief,


"THE 01.0 MAN RAN AND FE'I‘CHED ME A CORDIAL.”
and grew well; but I verily believe, if I had not been eased
by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have
died.
I was new master all on a sudden of above £5000 sterling
in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils of above £1000 a-year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the
enjoyment of it. The rst thing I did was to recompense my
original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been rst
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was sent
to me; I told him that, next to the providence of Heaven,
which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that it.
now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a hundredfold.
So I rst returned to him the hundred moidores I had received
of him ; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a
general release or discharge for the 470 moidores which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and rmest manner
possible: after which I caused a procuration to be drawn, em-
powering him to be the receiver of the annual prots of my '
plantation, and appointing my partner to account to him, and
make the returns by the usual eets to him in my name ; and
by a clause in the end, made a grant of 100 moidores a-year to
him during his life out of the effects, and 50 moidores a-year
to his son after him for his life. And thus I requited my old
man.
I had now to consider which way to steer my course next,
. and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put
into my hands: and indeed I had more care upon my head
now than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where
I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I
wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my
business was how to secure it. I had not a cave now to hide
my money in, nor a place where it might lie without lock or
key until it grew mouldy and tarnished before anybody would
meddle with it ; on the contrary, I knew not where to put it,
or whom to trust with it. My old patron the captain, indeed,
was honest, and that was the only refuge I had. In the next
place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither ;
but now I could not tell how to think of going thither until I
had settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At rst I thought of my old friend the widow,
who I knew was honest, and would be just to me ; but then she
was in years, and but poor, and for aught I knew might be in
debt. So that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to
England myself, and take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this ;
and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to
his satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began .
to think of the poor widow whose husband had been my rst
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful
Decides ' for England 257
steward and _instructor. So the rst thing I did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London,
not only to pay a bill, but to go nd her out, and carry her in
money a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived,
have a further supply. At the same time I sent my two sisters
in the country a hundred pounds each, they being, though not
,in want, yet not in very good circumstances ; one having been
married and left a widow, and the other having a husband not
so kind to her as he should be. But among all my relations
or acquaintances I could not yet pitch upon one to whom I
durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brazils and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly
perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have
settled myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalised to the
place ; but I had some little scruple in my mind about religion,
which insensibly drew me back, of which I shall say more
presently. However, it was not religion that kept me from
going there for the present : and as I had made no scruple of
being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was
among them, so neither did I yet; only that now and then
having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began
to think of living and dying among them, I began to regret
my having professed myself a Papist, and thought it might not _
be the best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept
me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know
with whom to leave my effects behind me; so I resolved at
last to go to England, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should
make some acquaintance, or nd some relations that would be
faithful to me. And accordingly I prepared to go to England
with all my wealth. ‘
In order to prepare things for my going home, I rst (the
Brazil eet being just going away) resolved to give answers
suitable to the just and faithful account of things I had from
thence. And, rst, to the Prior of St. Augustine I wrote a
letter full of thanks for his just dealings, and the offer of the
872 moidores which were undisposed of; which I desired
might be given, 500 to the monastery, and 37 2 to the poor, as
S
the prior should direct, desiring the good padre’s prayers for
me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two
trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honesty called for. As for sending them any present, they
were far above having any occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to
my partner, acknowledging his industry in the improving the
plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock of. the
works 5 giving him instructions for his future government of
my part, according to the powers I had left with my old
patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became due to
me until he'should hear from me more particularly 5 assuring
him that it was my intention not only to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To this I
added a very handsome present of some Italian silks for his
wife and two daughters, for such the captain’s son informed
me he had ;. with two pieces of ne English broadcloth, the
best I could get in Lisbon, ve pieces of black baize, and some
Flanders lace of a good value.
‘ Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned
all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next difculty
was which way to go to England. I had been accustomed
enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time; and though I could give no
reason for it, yet the difculties increased upon me so much,
that though I had once shipped my baggage in order to go,
yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three
. times. ‘
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might
be one of the reasons 5 but let no man slight the strong impulses
of his own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two of the
ships which I had singled out to go in 5 Iv mean, more particu-
larly singled out than any other, that is to say, so as in one of
them to put my things on board, and in the other to have
agreed with the captain 5 I say, two of these ships miscarried,
viz., one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start near Torbay, and all the people drowned .-
except three : so that in either of those vessels I had been made
miserable 5 and in which most it was hard to say. '
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot,
to whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not
An Overland yourney. , 259
to go by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne, and cross
,over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an
easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and
Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land
through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against my
going by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved
to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in haste,
and did not value the charge, was by much the pleasanter way.
And to make it more so, my old captain brought an English
' gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing
to travel with me ; after which we picked up two more English
merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last
. going to Paris only; so that we were in all six of us, and ve
servants : the two merchants and the two Portuguese content~
ing themselves with one servant between two to save the
charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with
me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a
stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant on
the road.
In this manner, I set out from Lisbon; and our company
being all very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop,
whereof they did me the honour to call me captain, as well
because I was the oldest man, as because I had two servants,
and indeed was the origin of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I
shall trouble you now with none of my land journal; but
some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and difcult
journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to
Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain,
and to see what was worth observing; but it being the latter
part of the summer we hastened away, and set out from
Madrid about the middle of October. But when we came to
the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns on the
way with an account that so much snow was fallen on the
French side of the mountains that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted. at
an extreme hazard to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself we found it so indeed;
and to' me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and
indeed to countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on,
the cold was insufferable. Nor, indeed, was it more painful
than it was surprising to come but ten days before out of Old
Castile, where the weather was not only warm, but very hot,
and immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean Mountains
so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to en-
danger benumbing and perishing of our ngers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the moun-
tains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he
had never seen or felt before in his life. To mend the matter,
when we came to Pampeluna, it continued snowing with so
much violence and so long, that the people said winter was
come before its time; and the roads, which were difcult before,
were now quite impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay in
some places too thick for us to travel, and being not hard
frozen, as is the case in the northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna ; when,
seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being
better—for it was the severest winter all over Europe that had
been known in the memory of man—I proposed that we should
all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux,
which was a very little voyage. But while we were considering
this, there came in four French gentlemen, who, having been
stopped on'the French side of the passes as we were on the -
Spanish, had found out a guide who, traversing the country
near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by such ways that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; for where they met with snow in any quantity, they
said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided
we were armed sufciently to protect ourselves from wild
beasts; for he said in these great snows it was frequent for
some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being covered
with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for '
such creatures as they were, if he would insure us from a kind
of two-legged wolves, which we were told we were in most
danger from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
Attacked 6y Wolves. \ 261'
He satised us that there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go ; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on
the 15th of November. And indeed I was surprised when,
instead of going forward, he came directly back with us, on
the same road that We came from Madrid, about twenty miles ;
when, having passed two rivers, and come into the plain country,
we found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant and no snow to be seen. But on a sudden, turning
to his left, he approached the mountains another way; and
though, it is true, the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet
’ he made so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such
winding ways, that we insensibly passed the height of the'
mountains without being much encumbered with the snow.
And all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant and fruitful
provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and ourishing;
though, indeed, it was at a great_ distance, and we had some
rough way to pass yet. ' ' ‘
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
one whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel;
but he bid us be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to- come more
north than before ; and so, depending upon our guide, we
went on. .
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being
something before us and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, from 'a hollow way
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves ew upon the
guide; and had he been half-a-mile before us, he had been
devoured indeed before we could have helped him. One of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man
with such violence, that he had not time or. presence of mind
enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us '
most lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bade him
ride up and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came
in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other. “Oh,
master! oh, master 1” but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up
/
to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked
him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday;
for he having been used to that kind of creature in his country,
had no fear upon him, but went close up to him, and shot him
as above: whereas any other of us would have red at a farther
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf or endangered"
shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terried a bolder man than I, and
indeed it alarmed all our company, when with the noise of
Friday’s pistol we heard on both sides the most dismal howling
of wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the moun-
tains, that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious multi-
tude of them: and perhaps indeed there was not such a few
as that we had no cause of apprehension. However, as Friday
had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse
left him immediately and ed 5 having happily fastened upon
his head, where the bosses of the bridle \had stuck in his teeth,
so that he had not done him much hurt. The man, indeed,
was most hurt 5 for the raging creature had bit him twice, once
on the arm and the other time a little above his knee 5 and he '
was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder of his horse,
when Friday came up and shot the wolf. _
It is easy to suppose that at the noise ,of Friday’s pistol we
all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which
was very difcult, Would give us leave, to see what was the
matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded
us before, we saw clearly what had been the case, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not
presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a ght managed so hardily and in such a sur-
prising manner as that which followed between Friday and the
bear, which gave us all (though at rst we were surprised and
afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear
is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf
does, who is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities,
which generally are the rule of his actions. First, as to men,
who are not his proper prey 5 I say, not his proper prey, because,
though I cannot say what excessive hunger might do, which
‘ was now their case, the ground being all covered with snow;
but as to men, he does not usually attempt them unless they
rst attack him. On the contrary, if you meet him in the
woods, if you don’t meddle with him he won’t meddle with
you. But then you must take care to be very civil to him, and
give him the road ; for he is a very nice gentleman, he won’t
go a step out of his way for a prince. Nay, if you are really
afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on ; for sometimes if you stop and stand still, and look steadily
at him, he takes it for an affront. But if you throw or
toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit
' of stick as'big as your nger, he takes it for an affront, and
sets all his other business aside to pursue his revenge; for he
will have satisfaction in point of honour. That is his rst
quality. The next is, that if he be once affronted, he will
never leave you night or day till he has his revenge, but follows
at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came
up to him he was helping him off his horse—for the man was
both hurt and frightened, and indeed the last more than the
rst—when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the
wood, and a vast, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that
ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him ;
but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage
in the fellow’s countenance. “ Oh ! oh! oh!” says Friday,
three times, pointing to him; “oh, master! you give me te
leave; me shakee to hand with him; me make you good
laugh.”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. “You fool
you,” says I, “ he will eat you up !” s “ Eatee me up! eatee me
up!” says Friday, twice over again; “me eatee him up; me
make you good laugh. You all stay here; me show you 'good
laugh.” So down he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment,
and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the at shoes they
wear, and which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he ew swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with
nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near him, calls to him, as if
the bear could understand him, “Hark ye! hark ye!” says
Friday; “ me speakee wit you.” We followed at a distance;
for now, being come down on the Gascony side of the moun-
tains, we were entered a vast great forest, where the cOuntry
was ’plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it
scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the
heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took up a
great stone, and threw it at him, and hit him just on the head,
but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against
a wall. But it answered Friday’s end; for the rogue was so
void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him,
and show us some laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear
felt the stone and saw him, he turns about and comes after
him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling along at a strange
rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling gallop. Away
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for
help. So we all resolved to re at once upon the bear, and
deliver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us when he was going about his
own business another way ; and especially I was angry that he
had turned the bear upon us, and then run away ; and I called
out, “You dog, is this your making us laugh? Come away,
and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature.” He
hears me, and cries out, “ N o shoot! no shoot! Stand still;
you get much laugh.” And as the nimble creature ran two feet
for the bear’s one, he turned on a sudden on one side of us, and
seeing a great oak-tree t for his purpose, he beckoned to us to
follow; and doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the tree, laying
his gun down upon the ground, at about ve or six yards from
the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and
we followed at a distance. The rst thing he did, he stopped
at the gun, smelt it, but let it lie; and up he scrambles into
the tree, climbing like a'cat, though so monstrously heavy. I
_ was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could
not for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear
get up the tree, we all rode near to him. -
When We came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
small end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about
half-way to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part
where the limb of the tree was weaker, “ Ha!” says he to us,
“ now you see me teaches the bear dance.” So he falls a
- jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to
totter, but stood still, and began to look behind him to see how
\\





-~4..._- ._-l_.._ _____-_-.-._-
4



THE BEAR.
ND
FRIDAY A
A Bear Dance. 265
he should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But
Friday had not-done with him by a great deal. When he sees
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed
the bear could speak English, “What! you come no farther?
'Pray you come farther.” So he left jumping and shaking the
tree ; and the bear, just as if he had understood what he said,
did come a little farther ; then he fell a jumping again, and the
bear stopped again. We thought now was a good time to knock-
him on the head, and I called to Friday to stand still and we
would shoot the bear. But he cried out earnestly, “ O pray!
O pray! no shoot; me shoot by and then :” he would have
said by-and-by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced
so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellow
would do : for rst we thought he depended upon shaking the
bear off; and we found the bear was too cunning for that too,
for he would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but
clings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could
not imagine what would be the end of it, and where the jest
would be at last. But Friday put us out of doubt quickly;
for seeing the bending fast to the bough, and that he would
not be persuaded to come any farther, “Well, well,” says
Friday, “ you no come farther, me go, me go ; you no come to
me, me go come to you.” And upon this he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his weight,
and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough till
he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he
ran to his gun, takes it up, and stands still. “Well,” said I
to him, “Friday, what will you do now? Why don’t you
shoot him i” “ N o shoot,” says Friday, “no yet; me shoot
now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more laugh.” And
indeed so he did, as you will see presently : for when the bear
sees his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he
stood, but did it very cautiously, looking behind him every
step, and coming backward till he got. into the body of the
tree ; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he comes down
the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a
time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could
set his hind feet upon the ground, Friday steppedup close to
him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him
dead as a stone. Then the rogue turned about to see if we did
not laugh; and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks,
he falls a laughing himself very loud. “So we kill bear in my
country,” says Friday. “So you kill them!” says I; “why,
you have no guns.”' “No,” says he, “no gun, but shoot great
much long arrow.” This was indeed a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew. The howling of wolves ran
much in my head; and indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something already,
I never heard anything that lled me with so much horror.
These things and the approach of night called us off, or else,
as Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken
the skin, of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving;
but we had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so
. we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep
and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the ravenous creatures,
as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and
plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had
done a great deal of mischief in- the villages, where they sur-
prised the country people, killed a great many of their sheep
and horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous place ,
to pass, which our guide told us, if there were any more wolves
in 'the country, we should nd them there ; and this was in a
small plain surrounded with woods on every side, and a long
narrow dele or lane, which we were to pass to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we were
to lodge. It was within half-an-hour of sunset when we entered
the rst wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the
plain. We met with nothing in the rst wood except that in
a little plain within the wood, which was not above two fur-
longs over, we saw ve great wolves cross the road, full speed,
one after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey,
and had it in view. They took no notice of us, and were gone
out of sight in a few moments. Upon this our guide, who, by
the way, was a wretched, faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a
ready posture, for he believed there were more wolves a coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw
no more wolves till we came through that wood, which was
Encounter with the Wolves. 267
near half-a-league, and entered the plain. As soon as we came
into the plain we had occasion enough to look about us. The
rst object we met with was a dead horse~that is to say, a
poor horse which the wolves had killed—and at least a dozen
of them at work, we could not say eating of him, but picking
of his bones rather, for they had eaten up all the esh before.
We did not think t to disturb them at their feast, neither did
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let y at
them, but I would not suffer him by any means ; for I found
we were like to have more business upon our hands than we
were aware of. We were not gone half over the plain but we
began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a
frightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them
in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by-experienced
ofcers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive them, but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only way ; -so
we formed'in a moment. But that we might not have too
much interval, I ordered that only every other man should re,
and that the others who had not red should stand ready to
give them a second volley immediately if they continued to
advance upon us; and that then those who had red at rst
should not pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready, '
every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with .a fusee and
a pair of pistols each man; so we were by this method able to
re six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present we
had no necessity; for Iupon ring the rst volley the enemy
made a full stop, being terried as well with the noise as with
'the re. Four of them being shot in the head dropped, several
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see
by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately
retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that
the ercest creatures were terried at the voice of a man, I
caused all our company to halloo as loud as we could; and I
found the notion not altogether mistaken, for upon our shout
they began to retire and turn about. Then I ordered a second
volley to be red in their rear, which put them to the gallop,
and away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to
charge our pieces again, and that we might lose no time, we
kept going; but we had but little more than loaded our fusees,
and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible
‘ noise in the same wood on our left, only that it was further
onward the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side 5 but the noise increasing, we
could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of
those hellish creatures 5 and on a sudden we perceived tWo or
three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one
in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them.
However, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way
forward, as fastas we could make our horses go, which, the
way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this
manner we came in view of the entrance of a wood, through
which we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain 5 but We
were greatly surprised when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we
saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening, of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun 5 and looking that way, out rushed a horse, with
a saddle and bridle on him, ying like the wind, and sixteen
or seventeen wolves after him, full speed 5 indeed the horse had
the heels of them, but as we supposed that he could not hold
it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him
at-last : no question but they did. .
_ But here we had a most horrible sight 5 for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcases of
another horse, and of two men, devoured by the ravenous
creatures; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom
we heard re the gun, for there lay a gun just by him red off 5
but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his body
were eaten up. This lled us with horror, and we knew not
what course to take 5 but the creatures resolved us soon, for
they gathered about us presently in hopes of prey 5 and I verily
believe there were three hundred of them. It happened, very
much to our,advantage, that at the entrance into the wood, but
a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees, which
had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there
for carriage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and
placing ourselves in a line ' behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breast-
work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our
......sr , <\\\\ 2 $\\\\\
\
_



.. g. .
:J‘ v \
















horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well we did ; for
never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in the place. They came on with a growling kind of noise,
and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was our
breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their prey ; and
this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their
seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed-at.
I ordered our men to re as before, every other man; and they
took their aim so sure that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the rst volley ; but there was a necessity to keep a
continual ring, for they came on like devils, those behind
pushing on those before.
When we had red a second volley of our fusees, we thought
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off ;
but it was but a moment, for others came forward again: so
we red two volleys of our pistols, and I believe in these four
rings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many, yet they came on again. I was loath to spend
our shot too hastily; so I called my servant—not my man
Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own while
we were engaged—but, as I said, I called my other man, and
giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along
the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. ' He did so, and
had just time to get away when the wolves came up to it, and -
some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close
to the powder, set it on re. Those that were upon the timber
were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather .
jumpedin among us, with the force and fright of the re. We
despatched these in an instant, and the rest were So frightened
with the light, which the night—for it was now very near
dark—made more terrible, that they drew back a little ; upon
which I ordered our last pistols to be red off in one volley,
and after that we gave a shout. Upon this the wolves turned
tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones,
which we found struggling on the ground, and fell to cutting
them with our swords; which answered our expectations, for
the crying and howling they made was better understood by
their fellows, so that they all ed and left us.
“Te had, rst and last, killed about threescore of them, and
had it been daylight we had killed many more. The eld of
battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures
howl and yell in the woods as we went several times, and some-
times we fancied we saw some of them 5 but the snow dazzling
our eyes, we were not certain. In about an hour more we
came to the town where we Were to lodge, which we found in
a terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems that, the night
before, the wolves and some bears had broken into the village,
and put them in such terror, that they were obliged to keep
guard night and day, but especially in the night, to preserve
their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled
so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go
no further 5 so we were obliged to take a new guide there, and
go to Toulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like
them. But when we told our story at Toulouse, they told us
it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
, foot of the mountains, especiallywhen the snow- lay on the
ground. But they inquired much what kind of a guide we had .
got, who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe
season 5 and told us it was surprising we were not all devoured.
When we told them how we placed ourselves, and the horses
in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fty to one but we had been all destroyed : for it was the sight
of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
' prey 5 and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun 5
but being excessively hungry, and raging on that account, the
eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of
danger 5 and if we had not by the continued re, and at last
by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces 5 whereas,
had we been content to have sat still on horseback, and red
as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses so much
for their own, when men were on their backs, as otherwise;
and withal they told that at last, if we had stood all together,
and left our horses, they would have been so eager to have
devoured them, that we might have come off safe, especially
having our rearms in our hands, and being so many in
Reaches England again. 271
number. For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in
my life; for seeing above three hundred devils come roaring
and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter
us or retreat to, I gave myself over for. lost; and as it was, I
believe I shall never care to cross those mountains again. I
think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though
I was sure to meet with a storm once a-week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France—nothing but what other travellers have given
an account of with much more advantage than I can. I
travelled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any considerable
. stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the 14th of
January, after having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a
little time all my new-discovered estate safe about me, the bills
of exchange which I brought with me having been very cur-
rently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her,
thought no pains too much nor care too great to employ for
me ; and I trusted her so entirely with everything, that I was
perfectly easy as to the security of my effects; and indeed I
was very happy from the beginning, and now to the end, in the
unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman. ‘
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this
_ woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But
now another scruple came in my way, and that was religion:
for as I had entertained some doubts about the Roman religion,
even while I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so
I knew there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less
going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman
Catholic religion without any reserve ; unless, on the other
hand, I resolved to be a sacrice to my principles, be a martyr ' '
for religion, and die in the Inquisition. So I resolved to
stay at home, and if I could nd means for it, to dispose of my
plantation. > '
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon ; who in
return gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there,
for that if I thought t to give him leave to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who
lived in the Brazils, ,who must fully understand the value of it,
who lived just upon the spot, and who I knew were very rich,
so that he believed they would be fond of buying it, he did
not doubt but I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of eight the
more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to them, and
he did so; and in about eight months more, the ship being
then returned, he sent me an account that they had accepted
the offer, and had remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a cor-
respondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which
they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to myold man, who sent.
me bills of exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight for the estate,
reserving the payment of 100 moidores a-year to him (the old
man) during his life, and 50 moidores afterwards to his son for
his life, which I had promised them, and which the plantation
was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the rst part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of Pro-
vidence’s checker-work, and of a variety which the world will
seldom be able to show the like of—beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for. ‘
Anyone would think that in this stateof complicated good
fortune I' was past running any more hazards ; and so indeed I
had been, if other circumstances had concurred; but I was
inured to a wandering life, had no family, not many relations,
nor, however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and
though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not
keep that country out of my head, and had a great mind to be
upon the wing again; especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there, and how the rogues I left there
had used them. My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven
years she prevented my running abroad, during which time I
took my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into
my care. The eldest, having something of his own, I bred up
as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition to _,
his estate after my decease. The other. I placed with the
captain of a ship ; and after ve years, nding him a sensible,
Revisits the Island. - \ 273
bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship,
and sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards drew me
in, as old as I was, to further adventures myself. ,
In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for, rst of
all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dis-
satisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one daughter.
But my wife dying, and my nephew coming home with good
success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad
and his *importunity prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
ship as a private trader to the East Indies. This was in the
year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw
my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives,
and of the villains I left there ; how at rst they insulted the
poor Spaniards ; how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united,
separated; and how at last the Spaniards were obliged to use
violence with them ; how they were subjected to the Spaniards ;
how honestly the Spaniards used them: a history, if it were
. entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my
own part, particularly also as to their battles with the Carib-
beans, who landed several times upon the island; and as to
the improvement they made upon the island itself; and how
ve of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought
away eleven'men and ve women prisoners, by which, at my
coming, I found about twenty young children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of all
necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes,
tools, and two workmen, which I brought from England with
' me, viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them, re-
served to myself the property of the whole, but gave them such
parts respectively as they agreed on; and having settled all
things with them, and engaged them not to leave the place, I
left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a
bark, which I bought there, with more people to the island; -
and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven women, being
such as I found proper for service, or for wives to such as would
take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised them to send
them some women from England, with a good cargo of
'r
necessaries, if they would apply themselves to planting; which
I afterwards performed. The fellows proved very honest and
diligent after they were mastered, and had their properties set
apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils ve cows,
three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs;
which, when I came again, were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hundred
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations,
and how they fought with that whole number twice, and were
at rst defeated, and three of them killed 5 but at last, a storm
destroying their enemies’ canoes, they famished or destroyed
almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession
of their plantations, and still lived upon the island : all these
things, with some very surprising incidents in some new adven-
tures of my own, for ten years more, I may perhaps give a
further account of hereafter.


HAT homely proverb used on
so many occasions in England,
viz., “That what is bred in the
bone will not go out of the
esh,” was never more veried
than in the story of my life.
Any one would think that after
thirty-ve years’ afiction and
a variety of unhappy circum-
stances, which few men, if any,
ever went through before, and
after near seven years of peace
and enjoyment in the fulness
of all things, grown old, and
when, if ever, it might be allowed
_W ~ -—> me to have had experience
of every state of middle life, and to know which was most
adapted to make a man completely happy ; I say, after all this,
any one would have thought that the native propensity to
rambling, which I gave an account of in my rst setting out
in the world to have been so predominant in my thoughts,
should be worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at
least condensed, and I might at sixty-one years of age have
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing
life and fortune any more.
Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was
taken away in me; for I had no fortune to make, I had nothing






to seek. If I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no
richer ; for I had already sufcient for me, and for those I had
to leave it to: and what I had was visibly increasing; for
having no great family, I could not spend the income of what
I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like,
which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to; so
that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy
what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands. Yet
all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not enough to
resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which
hung about me like a chronical distemper; particularly the
desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony
I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed of it all
night, and my imagination ran upon it all day ; it was upper-
most in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and
strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep. In short,
nothing could remove it out of my mind; it even broke so
violently into all my discourses, that it made my conversation
tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse
ran into it, even to impertinence ; and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say that all the
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is
owing to the strength of imagination and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like; that people’s poring
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends so realises it to them, that they are capable of fancying,
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them,
talk to them, and are answered by them ; when, in truth, there
is nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really
know nothing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people .
after they are dead ; or whether there is anything in the stories
they tell us of that kind more than the product of vapours,
sick minds, and wandering fancies; but this I know, that my
imagination worked up to such a height, and brought me into
such ecstasies of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I
actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my old
I
A Remarhahle Dreanz'. 277
castle behind the trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday’s father,
and the reprobate sailors I left upon the island; nay, I fancied
I talked with them, and looked at them steadily, though I was
broad awake, as at persons just before me ; and this I did till
I often frightened myself with the images my fancy represented
to me. One time in my sleep I had the villainy of the three
pirate sailors so lively related to me by the rst Spaniard and
Friday’s father, that it was surprising. They told me how
they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and ‘
that they set re to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose
to distress and starve them ; things that I had never heard of,
and that indeed were never all of them true in fact. But it
was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me, that to
the hour I saw them I could not be persuaded but that it was
or would be true ; also how I resented it when the Spaniard
complained to me, and how I brought them to justice, tried
them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged.
What there was really in this shall be seen in its place: for
however I came to form such things in my dream, and what
secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there was very much
'of it true. I say, I own that this dream had nothing in it
literally and specically true ; but the general part was so true
—-the base, villainous behavour of these three hardened rogues
was such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe,
that the dream had too much similitude of the fact; and as I
would afterwards have punished them severely, so if I had
hanged them all I had been much in the right, and should have
been justied both by the laws of God and man. But to return
to my story. In this kind of temper I had lived some years ;
_ I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable
diversion, but what had something or other of this in it ; so
that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night that she believed there was soine
secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me which had
determined me to go thither again, and that she found nothing
hindered my going but my being engaged to a wife and children.
She told me that it was true she could not think of parting
with me ; but as she was assured that if she was dead it would
be the rst thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the
thing was determined above, she would not be the only ob-

struction; for if I thought t, and resolved to go Here
she found me very intent upon her words, and that I looked
very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her, and
she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out
what she was going to say? But I perceived her heart was too
full, and some tears stood in her eyes. “Speak out, my dear,”
said I; “ are you willing I should go?” “ N 0,” says she, very
affectionately, “I am far from willing. But if you are resolved
to go,” says she, “ and rather than I would be the only
hindrance, I will go with you: for though I think it a most
preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your condition,
yet if it must be,” said she, again weeping, “I won’t leave you:
for if it be of Heaven, you must do it—there is no resisting
it 5 and if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also make
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may
not obstruct it.”
This affectionate behaviour of my wife’s brought me a little
out of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing.
I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with my-
self sedately what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed '_
in so happy and easy a manner 5 I say, what business had I to
rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures t only
for youth and poverty to run into?
With those thoughts I considered my new engagement—that
I had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child
of another 5 that I had all the world could give me, and had
no need to seek hazard for gain 5 that I was declining in years,
and ought to think rather of leaving what I had gained than
of seeking to increase it 5 that as to what my wife had said of
its being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my
duty to go, I had no notion of that: so, after many of these
cogitations, I struggled with the power of my imagination,
reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people may always do
in like cases if they will; and, in a word, I conquered it; com-
posed myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts,
and which my present condition furnished me plentifully with,
and particularly, as the most e'ectual method, I resolved to
divert myself with other things, and to engage in some business
that might effectually tie me up from any more excursions of
T ahes to Farming. 279
this kind ; for I found that thing return upon me chiey when
I was idle, and had nothing to do, nor anything of moment
immediately before me. To this purpose I bought a little
farm in the county of Bed-
ford, and resolved to remove
myself thither. I had a
little convenient house upon
it; and the land about it I
found was capable of great
improvement, and that it was
many ways suited to my in-
clination, which delighted in
cultivating, managing, plant-
ing, and improving of land;
and particularly, being an
inland country, I was re—
moved from conversing among
ships, sailors, and things re-
lating to the remote parts of


the- world. In a word, I Went down to my farm, settled
my family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, Waggon,
horses, cows, and sheep, and setting seriously to work, became
in one half-year a mere country gentleman. My thoughts were
entirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the
ground, enclosing, planting, &c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the
most agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or
that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of re-
treating to.
I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was
limited by no articles; I could'pull up or cut down as I
pleased; what I planted was for myself, and what I improved
was for my family: and having thus left off the thoughts of
wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any part of life
as to this world. Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the
middle state of life that my father so earnestly recommended
to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, something like what
is described by the poet upon the subject of a country life— i
“ Free from Vices, free from care,
Age hasno pain, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unfore-
seen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only made a
breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me by its
consequences into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition;
which,as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon re-
covered! its hold of me, and,'like the returns of a violent dis-
temper, came on with an irresistible force upon me, so that
nothing could make any more impression upon me. This blow
was the loss of my wife. It is not my business here to write
an elegy upon my wife, give a character of her particular
virtues, and make my court to the sex by the attery of a
funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her
prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was in from
the most extravagant and ruinous project that uttered in my
head as above, and did more to guide my rambling genius
than a mother’s tears, a father’s instructions, a friend’s counsel,
or my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in
listening to her tears and in being moved by her entreaties, and
Death of his Wife. ’ 281
to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the
loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me.
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the
Brazils when I rst went on shore there ; and as much alone,
except as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my island.
I knew neither what to do nor what not to do. I saw the
world busy round me: one part labouring for bread, and the
other part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures;
equally miserable,'because the end they proposed still ed from\
them : for the man of pleasure every day surfeited of his vice,
and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance ; and the men
of labour spent their strength in daily strugglings for bread to
maintain the vital strength they laboured with ; so living in a
daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome
life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island, where I suffered no more corn to grow beCause I did not
want it, and bred no more goats because I had no more use for
them ; where the money lay in the drawer until it grew
mouldy, and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty
years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would
have taught me to search further than human enjoyments for
a full felicity, and that there was something which certainly
was the reason and end of life superior to all these things, and
which was either to be possessed or at least hoped for on this
side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone. I was like a ship without
a pilot, that could only run afore the wind. My thoughts ran
all away again into the old affair ; my head was quite turned
with the whimseys of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant
innocent amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle
and my family, which _before entirely possessed me, were
. nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that
has no car, or food to one that has no taste. In a word, I
resolved to leave o' housekeeping, let my farm, and return to
London ; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London I was still as uneasy as I was before.
I had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to
do but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be
said he is perfectly useless in God’s creation, and it is not one
farthing matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or
alive. This also was the thing which of all circumstances of
life was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used
to an active life 5 and I would often say to myself, “ A state of
idleness is the very dregs of life 2” and indeed I thought I was
much more suitably employed when I was twenty-six days
making me a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my
nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to
the sea, and had made him commander of a ship, was come
home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the rst he had
made. He came to me, and told me. that some merchants of
his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for
them to the East Indies and to China as private traders.
“And now, uncle,” says he, “if you will go to sea with me, I
will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the island,
for we are to touch at the Brazils.” '
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state,
and of the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence
of second causes with the ideas of things which we form in our
minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the
. world. My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what
he had in his thought to say, when that very morning, before
he came to me, I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought,
and revolving every part of my circumstances in my mind,
come to this resolution—viz., that I would go to Lisbon, and
consult with my old sea-captain 5 and so, if it was rational and
practicable, I would go and see the island again, and see what
was become of my people there. I had pleased myself with
the thought of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants
from hence, getting a patent for the possession, and I know not
what 5 when in the middle of all this in comes my nephew, as
I have said, with his project of carrying me thither in his way
to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him,
Q1
' Unsettled again! 283
“What devil,” said I, “sent you on this unlucky errand‘l”
My nephew stared as if he had been frightened at rst; but
perceiving I was not much displeased with the proposal, he
recovered himself. “I hope it may not be an unlucky pro-
posal, sir,” says he; “I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more
felicity than most of your brother monarchs in the world.” I
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper—that
is to say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have
said so much—that I told him, in a few words, if he agreed
with the merchants I would go with him ; but I told him I
would not promise to go any farther than my own island.
“Why, sir,” says he, “you don’t want to be left there again, I
hope ’1” “Why,” said I, “can you not take me up again on
your return?” He told me it could not be possible that the
merchants would allow him to come that way with a laden ship
' of such value, it being a month’s 'sail out of his way, and might
be three or four. “Besides, sir, if I should miscarry,” said he,
“and not return at all, then you would be just reduced to the
condition you were in before.” 7
This was very rational ; but we both found out a remedy for
it, which was to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which
being taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might,
by the help of some carpenters whom we agreed to carry with
us, be set up again in the island, and nished t to go to sea ~
in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of
my nephew joined so effectually with -my inclination that
nothing could oppose me. On the other hand, my wife being
dead, nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to per;
suade me one way or the other, except my ancient good friend
the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazards of a
long voyage, and, above all, my young children. But it was
all to no purpose. I had 'an irresistible desire to the voyage;
and I told her I thought there was something so uncommon in
the impression I had upon my mind for the voyage, that it
would be a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to
stay at home: after which she ceased her-expostulations, and
joined with me not only in making provision for my voyage,
but also in settling my family affairs for my absence, and pro-
viding for the education of my children. ' 1
In order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I ha
in such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands,
that I was perfectly easy and satised they would have justice
done them, whatever might befall me ; and for their education,
I left it wholly to my widow, with a suicient maintenance to
herself for her care : all which she richly deserved, for no
mother could have taken more care in their education, or under-
stood it better; and as she lived till I came home, I also lived
to thank' her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January,
1694—5 ; and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the
Downs the 8th ; having, besides that sloop which I *mentioned
above, a very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things
for my colOny, which, if I did not nd in good condition, I
resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon
my own account while I stayed, and either to leave them
there or carry them forward as they should appear willing:
particularly I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy,
' ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, but was also a
general mechanic, for he was dexterous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner and a good pot-
maker; he also made anything that was proper to make of
earth or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack-of-all-
trades. With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself
to go passenger to the East Indies with' my nephew, but
afterwards censented to stay on our new plantation, and who
proved a most necessary handy fellow as could be desired in
many other busineSSes besides that of his trade ; for, as I
observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect—for I have not kept
account of the particulars—consisted of a sufcient quantity of
linen, and some English thin stuffs for clothing the Spaniards
that I expected to nd there, and enough of them as, by my
calculation, might comfortably supply them for seven years. If
I remember right, the materials I carried for clothing them
with—gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they
Sails for the Island. 285
could want for wearing—amounted to above £200, including
some beds, bedding, and household stuff, particularly kitchen
utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. ; and near £100
more in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks,
hinges, and every necessary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes,
and two pieces of brass cannon ; and because I knew not what
time and what extremities I was providing for, I carried a
hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the
iron part of some pikes and halberts ; so that, in short, we had
a large magazine of all sorts of stores. And I made my nephew
carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his
ship, to leave behind if there was occasion ; that when we came
there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of
enemies; and, indeed, I at rst thought there would he need
enough for all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our
possession of the island, as shall be seen in the course of that
story. ' .
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used
to meet with, and therefore shall have the less occasion to
interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be impatient to hear
how matters went with my colony; yet some odd accidents,
cross winds, and badweather happened on this rst setting out,
which made the voyage longer than I expected it at rst ; and
I, who had never made but one voyage—viz., my rst voyage
to Guinea—in which I might be said to come back again, as
the voyage was at rst designed—began to think the same ill
fate still attended me, and that I was born to be never con-
tented with being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate
at sea. '
Contrary winds rst put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-
bound two—and-twenty days. But we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceedingly cheap, and
in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we never
touched the ship’s stores, but rather added to them. Also I
took in several live hogs, and two cows with their calves,
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in
my island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a
very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the
mate, having the watch, came into the round-house and told
us he saw a ash of re and heard a gun red 5 and while he
was telling us of it, a boy came in and told us the boatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing; but in a few
minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was
some very terrible re at a distance. Immediately we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there
could be no land that way in which the re showed itself, no,
not for ve hundred leagues, for it appeared at west-north-west.
Upon this we concluded it must be some ship on re at sea 5 and
as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before, we concluded
it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and were
presently satised we should discover it, because the farther
we sailed the greater the light appeared, though the weather
being hazy, we could not perceive anything but the light for
a while. In about half-an-hour’s sail, the wind being fair for
us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little,
we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on re in
the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not
at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, and what condition I was
in when taken up by the Portuguese captain 5 and how much
more deplorable the circumstances of the poor creatures belong-
ing to that ship must be if they had no other ship in company
with them. Upon this I immediately ordered that ve guns
should be red, one soon after another, that, if possible, we
might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their
boat 5 for though we could see the ame of the ship, yet they,
it being night, could see nothing of us. - '
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
up in the air 5 and immediately, that is to say, in a few
minutes, all the re was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship
A Large Ship on Fire. ' 287
sunk. This was a terrible, and indeed an aficting sight, for
. the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boat
in the middle of the ocean, which at present, as it was dark, I
could not see. However, to direct them as well as I could, I
caused lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanterns for, and kept ring guns
all night long, letting them know by this that there was a ship
not far off.
About eight o’clock in the morning we discovered the ship’s
boats by the help of our perspective-glasses, and found there
were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water. We perceived they rowed, the wind being against
them ; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make
us see them. '
We immediately spread our ancient to let them know we
saw them, and hung a waft out as a signal for them to come
on board, and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In little more than half-an-hour we came up with them, and in
a word took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men,
women, and children ; for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship of
three hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the
river of Canada. The master gave us a long account of the
distress of his ship; how the re began in the steerage, by the
negligence of the steersman ; but on his crying out for help,
was, as everybody thought, entirely put out, when they found
that some sparks of the rst re had got into some part of the
ship so difcult to come at that they could not eifeotually
quench it, till, getting in between the timbers, ,and within the
ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all
the skill and all the application they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large, being their
long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was
of no great service to them, other than to get some fresh water
and provisions into her after they had secured their lives from
the re. They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats at that distance from any land, only, as they
said, that they were escaped from the re, and there was a pos-
sibility that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might 4
take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass, and were -
preparing to make the best of their way back to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at south-
east by east. They had as much provisions and water as, with
sparing it so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about twelve days, in which, if they had no bad weather and
no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he might get to
the Banks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take some sh,
to sustain them till they might go on shore. But there were
so many chances against them in all these cases, such as storms _
to overset and founder them, rains and cold to benumb and
perish their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them, that it must have ,been next to miraculous if they had
escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told_
me they were on a. sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a
gun re, and after that four more. These were-the ve guns
which I caused to be red at rst seeing the light. This
revived their hearts, and gave them the notice which, as above,
I desired it should—viz., that there was a ship at hand for
their help. It was upon hearing these guns that they took
down their masts and sails ; the sound coming from the wind-
ward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after
this, hearing no more guns, they red three muskets, one a
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being
contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably
surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which,
as I have said, I caused to be red all the rest of the night.
This set them_to work with their oars, to keep their boats ahead,
at least, that we might the sooner come up with them ; andv at
last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ecstasies, the variety of postures which these poor
delivered people ran into to express the joy of their souls at so
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described;
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of the head and
hands make up the sum of its variety ; but an excess of joy, a
The Rescued Crew. 289
'surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it. There
were some in tears; some raging and tearing themselves, as if
they had been in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark
raving and downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping
with their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing, some laughing, more crying, many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting; others
swooning and ready to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks. '
. I would not wrong them neither ; there might be many that
were thankful afterwards, but the passion was too strong for
them at rst, and they were not able to master it; they were
thrown into ecstasies and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a
very few that were composed and serious in their joy.
Perhaps the case may have some addition to it from the par-
ticular circumstance of that nation they belonged to, I mean
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more uid than
in other nations. I am not philosopher enough to determine
the cause; but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it.
The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he
found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the
surprise of the master and his two companions, whom I de-
livered from the villains that set them on shore in the island,
came a little way towards it; but nothing was to compare to
this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not
show themselves in that different manner I have mentioned in
different persons only, but all the variety would appear in a
short succession of moments in one and the same person. A
man that We saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and
confounded, would the next minute be dancing and hallooing
like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or
pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his feet
like a madman; in a few moments after that we would have
him all in tears, then sick, then swooning ; and had not im-
mediate help been had, would in a few moments have been
dead. And thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty,
but with the greatest part of them; and if I remember right,
our surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty of them.
u
There were two priests among them, one an old man and the
other a young man 5 and that which was strangest was that the ‘
oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board
our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone dead to
all appearance 5 not the least sign of life could be perceived in
him. Our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to re
cover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed he
was not dead. At length he opened a vein in his arm, having
rst chafed and rubbed the part so as to warm it as much as
possible. Upon this the blood, which only dropped at rst,
owed something freely 5 in three minutes after the man opened
his eyes 5 and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke,
grew better, and in a little time quite well. After the blood
was stopped, he walked about and told us he was perfectly
well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and
was what we call come to himself. About a quarter of an hour
after, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who
was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told him
the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to
revolve the change of his circumstance, and again this put him
into an ecstasy of joy. ' His spirits whirled about faster than
the vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish,
and the man was as t for Bedlam as any creature that ever
was in it. - The surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to dose and put him to sleep,
which after some time operated upon him, and he awoke next
morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with great command of his
passions, and was really an example of a serious, well-governed
mind. At his rst coming on board the ship, he threw himself
at on his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his
deliverance : in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed
him, really thinking he had been in a swoon 5 but he spoke
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a few moments, and that,
next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left
him, but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued
in that posture about three minutes, or little more, after I left
him, then came to me, as he had said he would, and with a
A Young Priest. 291
great deal of seriousness and affection, but with tears in his
eyes, thanked me that had, under God, given him and so many
miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no need to
tell him to thank God for it, rather than me; but I added that
it was nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all
men, and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to
God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the instruments
of His mercy to so many of His creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his country-
folks ; laboured to compose them, persuaded, entreated, argued,
reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within
the exercise of their reason; and with some he had success,
though others were for a time out of all government of
themselves. ‘
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may
be useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding
themselves in the extravagances of their passions; for if an
excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the
reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger,
rage, and a provoked mind carry us to? And, indeed, here I
saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of
every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction as those of
sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagances among
our new guests for the rst day; but after they had retired to
lodgings provided for them as well as our ship would allow,
and they had slept heartily, as most of them did, they were
quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them was wanting; the French, it is known,
are naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of
the priests came to me the next day, and desiring to speak with
me and my nephew the commander, began to consult with us
what should be done with them. And rst they told us that,
as we had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough
for a r turn to us for that kindness received. The captain said
they had saved some money and some things-of value in their
boats, caught hastily up out of the ames, and if we would
accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it all to us;
they only desired to. be set on shore somewhere in our way,
where, if possible, they might get a passage to France. My
nephew was for accepting their money at rst word, and to
consider what to do with them afterwards; but I overruled
him in that part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore. in
a strange country ; and if the Portuguese captain that took me
up at sea had served me so, and taken- all I had for my
deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a slave
at the Brazils as I had been in Barbary, the mere being sold to
a Mohammedan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a
much better master than a Turk, if not in some cases much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do
so, as we were fellow~creatures, and as we would desire to be
so delivered if we were in the like or any other extremity;
that we had done nothing for them but what we believed they
would have done for us, if we had been in their case and they
in ours: but that we took them up to save them, not to plunder
them; and it would be a most barbarous thing to take that
little from them which they had saved out of the re, and then
set them on shore and leave them; that this would be rst to
save them from death and then kill them ourselves, save them
from drowning and abandon them to starving ; and therefore I
would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting
them on shore, I told them indeed that was an exceeding
difculty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies,
and though we were driven out of our course to the westward
a very great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on
purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wil-
fully to change our voyage on their particular account, nor
could my nephew, the captain, answer it-to the freighters, with
whom he was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by way
of Brazil; and all I knew we could do for them was to put
ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships homeward
bound from the West Indies, and get them passage, if possible,
to England or France.
The rst part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in very
great consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of
being carried away to the East Indies; and they then entreated
me that, seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I
A Satisfactory Arrangement. 9193
met with them, I would at least keep on the same course to
the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might
meet with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry
them back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it ; for indeed I considered that
to carry this whole company to the East Indies would not only
be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would be
ruining our whole voyage by devouring all our provisions : so
I thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one
could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature
would have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats
full of people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged
us to set them on shore somewhere or other for their deliverance.
So I consented that we should carry them to Newfoundland, if
wind and weather would permit; and if not, that I would carry
them to Martinique, in the West Indies.
The wind cOntinued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty
good; and as the winds had continued in the points between
north-east and south-east a long time, we missed several oppor-
tunities of sending them to France; for we met several ships
bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from St. Christo-
pher’s, but they had been so long beating up against the wind
that they durst take in no passengers, for fear of wanting pro-
visions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this that we made the Banks of Newfoundland,
where, to shorten my story, we put all our French people on
board a bark which they hired at sea there to put them on
shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could
get provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all the
French went on shore, I should remember that the young priest
I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired
to go the voyage with us, and'to be set on shore on the coast
of Coromandel, which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully
liked the-man, and had very good reason, as will appear after-
wards; also four of the seamen entered themselves on our ship,
and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
steering away south and south by cast for about twenty days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all 5 when we met with
another subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as de-
plorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the
19th day of March, 1694—5, when we spied a sail, our course
south-east and by south. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at rst know
what to make of her, till after coming a little nearer we found
she had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and
presently she red a gun as a signal of distress. The weather
was pretty good, wind at northnorth-west a fresh gale; and we
soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship cf Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days
before she was ready to sail by a terrible hurricane, while the
captain and chief mate were both gone on shore; so that,
besides the terror of the storm, they were but in an indifferent
case for good artists to bring the ship home. They had been
already nine weeks at sea, and had met with'another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown them
quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in which
they lost their masts, as above. They told us they expected to
have seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again
to the south-east by a strong gale of wind at north-north-west,
the same that blew now; and having no sails to work the ship
with but a main course, and a kind of square sail upon a jury
foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had
undergone 5 their bread and esh were quite gone, they had not
one ounce left in the ship, and had had none for eleven days.
The only relief they had was, their water was not all spent, and
they had about half-a—barrel of our left 5 they had sugar
enough; some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at rst, but
they were all devoured 5 and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother and a maid-servant on
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was
A Pitiahle Case. _ 295
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the
hurricane began; and having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest, for the
seamen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves,
had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers,
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is very
hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not
led me (the weather being fair and the wind abated) to go on
board the ship. The second mate, who upon this occasion
commanded the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told
me indeed they had three passengers in the great cabin that
were in a deplorable condition: “Nay,” says he, “I believe
they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
days, and I was afraid to inquire after them,” said he, “for I
had nothing to relieve them with.”
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief
we could spare ; and indeed I had so far overruled things with
my nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we
had gone away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of
America, to have supplied ourselves; but there was no neces-
sity for that.
But now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate,
or commander, brought six men with him in his boat; but
these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak
that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was
very ill and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved
nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with
them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him
immediately, and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he
began to be sick and out of order. - So he stopped awhile, and
our surgeon mixed him up something with some broth, which
he said to him would be both food and physio ; and after he ,
had taken it he grew better. In the meantime, I forgot not
the men; I ordered victuals to be given them, and the poor
creatures rather devoured than ate it. They were so exceed-
ingly hungry that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no
command of themselves; and two of them ate with so much
greediness that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.
The sight of these people’s distress was very moving to me,
and brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my
rst coming on shore in my island, where I had neither the
least mouthful of food, nor any prospect of procuring any,
besides the hourly apprehension I had of being made the food
of other creatures. But all the while the mate was thus relat-
ing to me the miserable condition of the ship’s company, I
could not put out of my thoughts the story he had told me of
the three poor creatures in the great cabin—viz., the mother,
her son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of
for two or three days, and whom he seemed to confess they had
Wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great ; by
which I understood that they had really given them no food at
all, and that therefore they must be perished, and be all lying
dead, perhaps, on the oor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain,
on board with his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the
starving crew that were left on board, but ordered my own
boat to go on board the ship, and with my mate and twelve
men to carry them a sack of bread and four or ve pieces of
beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat
to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-
room to prevent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out
of the pot before it was well boiled, and then to give every man
but a very little at a time; and by this caution he preserved
the men, who would otherwise have killed themselves with
that very food that was given them on purpose to save their
lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin and see what condition the poor passengers were in, and
if they were alive, to comfort them, and give them what
refreshment was proper; and the surgeon gave him a large
pitcher with some of the prepared broth which he had given
the mate that was on board, and which he did not question
would restore them gradually.
I was not satised with this, but, as I said above, having a
great mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship
itself would present me with in a more lively manner than I
The Fangs of Hunger. 297
could have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we
now called him, with me, and went myself a little after in their
boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the
' victuals out of the boiler before it was ready. But my mate
observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room
door ; and the man he placed there, after using all pessible
persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force. However,
he caused some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in‘ the pot and
softened with the liquor of the meat, which they called brewes,
and gave them every one some, to stay their stomachs, and
told them it was for their own safety that he was obliged to
give them but a little at a time. But it was all in vain ; and
had I not come on board, and their own commander and ofcers
with me, and with good words, and some threats also of giving
them no more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-
room‘ by force and tore the meat out of the furnace ; for words
are indeed of very small force to a hungry belly. However,
we pacied them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for
the rst time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
lled their bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest ; for as, rst, the ship’s
company had so little for themselves, it was but too true that
they had .at rst kept them very low, and at last totally ne-
glected them; so that for six or seven days it might be said
they had really no food at all, and for several days before very
little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a
woman of good sense and good breeding, had spared all she
could so affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sank
under it ; and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon
the oor or deck, with her back up against the sides, between
two chairs which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between
her shoulders like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon
put some broth into her mouth. She opened her lips and lifted
up one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what
he said, and made signs to him, intimating that it Was too late
for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said they
should take care of him. However, the mate, who was exceed-
ineg moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three
spoonfuls down; though I question whether he could be sure
of it or not. But it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most ’
affectionate mother’s life, was not so far gone, yet he lay in a
cabin bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him.
He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up
the rest of it. However, being young, and having more strength
than his mother, the mate got something down his throat, and
he began sensibly to revive 5 though, by giving him some time
after but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very
sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had
fallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her
limbs were distorted 5 one of her hands was clasped round the
frame of the chair, and she gripped it so hard that we could
not easily make her let go 5 her other arm lay over her head,
and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of the
cabin table 5 in short, she lay just like one in the last agonies
of death, and yet she was alive too.‘
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger and
terried with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us
afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw
dying for two or three days before, and whom she loved most
tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience,
had with great application recovered her as to life, he had her
upon his hand as to her senses, for she was little less than dis- 5
tracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to
consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the
country, where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at
a place. Our business was to relieve this distressed ship’s crew,
but not to he by for them 5 and though they were willing to
steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could carry
no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts. However,
as their captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-
More Passengers. 299
topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his jury-foremast, we did,
as it were, lie by him for three or four days ; and then, having
given him ve barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads
of biscuit, and a portion of peas, our, and what other things
we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth
and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was aboutseventeen years of age, a pretty,
well-bred, modest, and senSible youth, greatly dejected with
the loss of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but
a few months before, at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon
to speak to me to take him out of the ship, for he said the-
cruel fellows had murdered his mother. And indeed so they
had—that is to say, passively—for they might have spared a
small sustenance to the poor helpless widow that might have
preserved her life, though it had been-but just enough to keep
her alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable of no com-
passion. _
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it
would carry him away from all his friends, and put him,
perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost as those we found him
in ; that is to say, starving in the world. He said it mattered
not whither he went, if he was but delivered from the terrible
crew he was among ; that the captain (by which he meant me,
for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life,
and he was sure would not hurt him ; and as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thankful
for it, let us carry them where we would. The surgeon repre-
sented the case so affectionately to me that I yielded, and we
took them both on board with all their goods, except eleven
hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his
commander sign a writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom
the youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I
wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
deceased widow: which I suppose was not done, for I could
never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most
probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a condition, and so
far from any land, that I am of opinion the rst storm she met
with afterwards she might formder in the sea ; for she was leaky,
and had damage in her hold when we met with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at rst.
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the
little incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of
our voyage ; but shortening my story for the sake of what is to
follow, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the
island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small
difculty that I found the place ; for as I came to it and went
'from it before on the south and east side of the island, as
coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in between the main. I
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any land-
mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I
saw it or not. I
We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Orinoco, but none for
my purpose ; only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that
I was under one great mistake before—viz., that the continent
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in was really no
continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reach-
ing from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island were
not properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and
other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something
nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose.
Some I found'were inhabited, and some were not. On one of
them I found some Spaniards, and thought they had lived
there; but, speaking with them, I found they had a sloop
lying in a small creek hard by, and came thither to make salt,
and to catch some pearl mussels if they could ; but that they
belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in
the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
But at last, coasting from one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman’s shallop, which—
we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with
their very good will, at length I came fair on the south side of
The Island again! - 301
my island, and I presently knew the very countenance of the
place ; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside with
the little creek where my old habitation was.
As soon as I saw the place I called for Friday, and asked
him if he knew where he Was? He looked about a little, and
presently clapping his hands, cried, “ Oh yes, oh there! Oh
yes, oh there!” pointing to our old habitation, and fell a danc-
ing and capering like a mad fellow, and I had much ado to
keep him from jumping into the sea to swim ashore to the
lace. '
p “ Well, Friday,” says I, “ do you think we shall nd anybody
here or no? And what do you think; shall we see your father ?”
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected,
and I could see the tears run down his face very plentifully.
“What is the matter, Friday?” says I. “Are you troubled
because you may see your father?” “ N o, no,” says he, shak-
ing his head ; “no see him more ; no evermore see again.”
“ Why so, Friday?” said I ; “how do you know that?” “ Oh
no, oh no,” says Friday ; “ he long ago die, long ago ; he much
old man.” “Well, well,” said I, “Friday, you don’t know ;
but shall we see any one else then?” The fellow, it seems,
had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just above my
old house; and though we lay half-a-league off, he cries out,
“We see ! we see ! yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there.” I looked, but I could see nobody—no, not with a
perspective-glass ; which was, I suppose, because I could not
hit the place, for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry
the next day, and there were ve or six men all together, who
stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread and red three guns, to give them
notice we were friends ; and in about half-a-quarter of an hour
after, we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek : so
I immediately ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me,
- and hanging out a white ag, or a ag of truce, I went directly
on shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom
I had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular both of myself and those I left there,
and who was, on that account, extremely desirous to 'go with
me. We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if
we had found any new guests there which we did not know of 5
but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of ood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek, and the rst man I xed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom
I knew by his face perfectly well; as to his habit, I shall
describe it afteIWards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at
rst but myself, but there was no keeping Friday in the boat 5
for the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance,
a good way off from the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing
of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he ew
away to his father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the rmest resolution, to
have seen the rst transports of this poor fellow’s joy when he
came to his father 5 how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked
his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree,
and lay down by him 5 then stood and looked at him, as any
one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour
together 5 then lay down on the ground, and stroked his legs,
and kissed them, and then got up again and stared at him; one
would have thought the fellow bewitched. But it would have
made a dog laugh to see how the next day his passion ran out
another way. In the morning he walked along the shore to
and again with his father several hours, always leading him by
the hand, as if he had been a lady 5 and every now and then
he would come to the boat to fetch something or other for him,
either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit-cake, or something or
other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another
way, for then he would set the old man down upon the ground,
and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures and
gestures 5 and all the while he did this he would be talking to
him, and telling him one story or another of his travels, and
of what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short,
if the same lial affection was to be found in Christians to their
parents in our part of the world, one would be tempted to say
there would hardly have been any need of the fth com-
mandment.
But this is a digression. I return to my landing. It would
A Warm Reception. I 303
be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities
that the Spaniards received me with. The rst Spaniard, who,
as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved.
He came towards the boat, attended by one more carrying a
ag of truce also; and he not only did not know me at rst,
but he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was
come till I spoke to him. “ Seignior,” said I, in Portuguese,
“do you not know me?” At which he spoke not a word, but
giving his musket to the man that was with him, threw his
arms abroad, and saying something in Spanish that I did not
perfectly hear, comes forward and embraces me, telling me he
was inexcusable not to know that face again that he had once
seen as of an angel from heaven sent to save his life. He said
abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then, beckoning to the person that
attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then
asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would
give me possession of my own house again, and where I should
see there had been but mean improvements ; so I walked along
with him : but, alas! I could no more nd the place than if I
had never been there ; for they had planted so many trees, and
placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one another,
and in ten years’ time they were grown so big, that in short the
place was inaccessible, except by such windings and blind ways
as they themselves only, who made them, could nd.
I asked them what put them upon. all these fortications?
He told me I would say there was need enough of it, when
they had given me an account how they had passed their time
since their arriving in the island, especially after they had the
misfortune to nd that I was gone. He told me he could not
but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard
that I was gone away in a good ship, and to my satisfaction ;
and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that one time
or other he should see me again ; but nothing that ever befell
him in his life, he said, was so surprising and alicting to him
at rst as the disappointment he was under when he came back
to the island and found I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so _he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me,
the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small. “ And,” says
he, “had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago
in purgatory ;” and with that he crossed himself on the breast.
“But, sir,” says he, “I hope you will not be displeased when
I shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them and make them our sub-
jects, as they would not be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers.” I answered I was
heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and nothing
troubled me at my parting from the island but that they were
not come back, that I might have put them in possession of
everything rst, and left the others in a state of subjection; as
they deserved. But if they had reduced them to it, Iwas very
glad, and should be very far from nding any fault with it;
for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains,
and were t for any manner of mischief. .
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven more. In the dress they were in it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of ; but he made
all clear both to them and to me. First he turned to me, vand
pointing to them, said, “ These, sir, are some of the gentlemen
who owe their lives to you 3” and then turning to them, and
pointing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which
they all came up, one by one, not as if they had been sailors
and ordinary fellows and I the like, but really as if they had
been ambassadors of noblemen, and I a monarch or a great
conqueror. Their behaviour was to the last degree obliging
and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity,
which very well became them; and, in short, they had so much
more manners than I that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island,
after my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many
incidents which the former part of my relation will help to
understand, and which will in most of the particulars refer to
the account I have already given, that I cannot but commit
them with great delight to the reading of those that come
after me. _
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the rst
person, which will put me to 'the expense of ten thousand
“said 1’s,” and “said he’s,” and “ he told me’s,” and “I told
him’s,” and the like; but I shall collect the facts historically
as near as I can gather them out of my memory from what
they related to me, and from what I met with in my conversing
with them and with the place.
. In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island,
and in which the persons were of whom I am to speak. _ And
rst, it is necessary to repeat that I had sent away Friday’s
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued
from the savages : I say, I had sent them away in a large canoe
to the main, as I then thought it,’ to fetch over the Spaniard’s
companions that he left behind him, in order to save them from
the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to succour
them for the present ; and that, if possible, we might together
nd some way for our deliverance afterwards. -
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or
the least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than ,
I had twenty years before ; much less had I any foreknowledge
of what afterwards happened, I mean, of an English ship
coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not but be
a very great surprise to them when they came back, not only
to nd that I was gone, but to nd three strangers left on the
spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me, which would
otherwise have been. their own.
The rst thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might
begin where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired
the Spaniard would give me a particular account of his voyage
back to his countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch
them over.» He told me there was little variety in that part,
for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, they
having very calm weather and a smooth sea; for his country- -
men it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were
overjoyed to see him. It seems he was the principal man
among them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time. They were, he said,
the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he was
fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they were satised,
would devour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners;
. that when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
x ' .
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was
like a dream to them, and their astonishment, he said, was
somewhat like that of Joseph’s brethren, when he told them
who he was, and the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh’s court.
But when he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey or voyage,
they were restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy
of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come away
with him. -
Their rst business was to get canoes 5 and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-shing or for
pleasure. In these they came away the next morning. It
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither clothes, nor provisions, nor anything
in the world but what they had on them, and a few roots to
eat, of which they used to make their bread. v
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time, un-
luckin for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I
mentioned in my other part, and to get off from the island,
leaving three of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned,
disagreeable villains behind me, that any man could desire to
meet with, to the poor Spaniards’ great grief and disappoint-
ment, you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the
Spaniards came onshore they gave my letter to them, and gave
them provisions and other relief, as I had ordered them to do 5
also they gave them the long paper of directions which I had
left with them, containing the particular methods which I took
for managing every part of my life there 5 the way I baked my
bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn 5 how I cured
my grapes, made my pots 5 and, in a word, everything I did.
All this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two
of whom understood English well enough 5 nor did they refuse
to accommodate the Spaniards with everything else, for they
agreed very well for some time. They gave them an equal
admission into the house or cave, and they began to live very
sociably 5 and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much
of my methods, and Friday’s father together, managed all their
Three Hardened Villains. 307
affairs: for as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble
about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when
they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their suppers
for them.
The Spaniards would have been satised with this, had the
others but let them alone ; which, however, they could not nd
in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the manger, they
would not eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat.
The differences, nevertheless, were at rst but trivial, and such


HTHEY DID NOTHING BUT RAMBLE ABOUT THE ISLAND AND CATCH TORTOISES-"
as are not worth relating; but at last it broke out into open
war, and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that can
be imagined—without reason, without provocation, contrary to
nature, and indeed to common sense; and though, it is true,
the rst relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves,
whom I may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the
fellows, they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation; and this was, that I
forgot to set down, among the rest, that just as we were
weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a little quarrel
on board our ship, which I was afraid once would have turned
to a. second mutiny ; nor was it appeased till the captain,
rousing up his courage and taking us all to his assistance, parted
them by force, and making two of the most refractory fellows
prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former disorders, and let fall some dangerous, ugly words
the second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to Eng-
land, and have them hanged there for mutiny and running away
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not
intend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship, and
some of them had put it into the heads of the rest that the
captain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port, and that then they should
be all put into jail, and tried for their lives. The mate got “
intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it ; upon which it
was desired that I, who still passed for a great man among
them, should go down with the mate and satisfy the men, and
tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved well the
rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past should
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour’s word
to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men who were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night,
the wind also falling calm. Next morning, we found that our
two men who had been laid in irons had stolen each of them a
musket andsome otherweapons/(what- powder or shot they
had we knew not), and had taken the ship’s pinnace, which
was not yet hauled up, and ran away with her to their com-
panions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I
ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve men and the mate,
and away they went to seek the rogues ; but they could neither
nd them nor any of the rest, for they all ed into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and
left them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let it
all alone, left everything as he found it, and bringing the
pinnace away, came on board without them. These two men
A -New Encampment. 309
made their number ve; but the other three villains were so
much more wicked than they, that after they had been two or
three days together they turned the. two new-comers out of
'doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do
with them, nor could they for a good while be persuaded to give
them any food : as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came rst on shore, the business began
to go forward. The Spaniards would have persuaded the three
English brutes to have taken in their countrymen again, that,
as they said, they might be all one family; but they would
not hear of it. So the two poor fellows lived by themselves ;
and nding nothing but industry and application would make
them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north .
shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be out of
danger of the savages, who always landed on the east parts of
the island. , .
Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in and the
other to lay up their magazines and stores in ; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and some of the peas
which I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, after
the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty
well. Their rst crop of corn was on the ground, and though
it was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at rst,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them,
and nd them with bread and other eatables ; and one of the
fellows being the cook’s mate of the ship, was very ready at
making soup, puddings, and such other preparations as the rice
and the milk and such little esh as they got furnished him
to do. ’
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me,
had given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any
right to it; and that they should build no houses upon their -
ground, unless they would pay rent for them. v
The two men, thinking they were jesting at rst, asked them
to come in and sit down, and see what ne houses they were
that they had built, and tell them what rent they demanded ;
and one of them merrily told them, if they were ground—
landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land
and made improvements, they would, according to the custom
of landlords, grant them a long lease 5 and bid them go fetch a
scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three, cursing and '
raging, told them they should see they were not in jest 5 and
going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men had
made a re to dress their victuals, he takes a rebrand and
claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on
re 5 and it would have been all burned down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not ran to the fellow, thrust him away,
and trod the re out with his feet, and that not without some
difculty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man’s thrusting
him away, that he returned upon him with a pole he had in
his hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly,
and ran into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after him,
and immediately they came both out with their muskets, and
the man that was rst struck at with the pole knocked the
fellow down that began the quarrel with the stock of his
musket, and that before the other two could come to help him 5
and then, seeing the rest come at them, they stood together,
and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
stand off.
The others had rearms with them too, but one of the two
honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate with
his danger, told them if they offered to move hand or foot they
were dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their
arms. They did not indeed lay down their arms, but seeing
him so resolute it brought them to a parley, and they con-
sented to take their wounded man with them and be gone—and
indeed it seems the fellow was wounded sufciently with the
blow. However, they were much in the wrong, since they had
the advantage, that they did not disarm them effectually, as
they might have done, and have gone immediately to the
Spaniards and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them 5 for the three villains studied nothing but re-
venge, and, every day gave them some intimation that they
did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part
A Challenge :5 ' Fzg/lz. 311
.of their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting
three young kids and a she-goat which the poor men had got
to breed up tame for their store, and, in a word, plaguing them
night and day in this manner, it forced the two men to such a
desperation, that they resolved to ght them all three the rst
time they had a fair opportunity. In order to do this, they
resolved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my old
dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived
together at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the
Spaniards should stand by to see fair play. So they got up in
the morning before day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen—-
Whom, for distinction, I call the honest men—and he had
made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage
they had met with from their three countrymen, and how they
had ruined their plantation and destroyed their corn that they
had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-
goat and their three kids, which was all they had to provide
for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and they
were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the
three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them, “How theycould be so cruel, they being
harmless, inoffensive fellows 3 that they were putting them-
selves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost
them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as
they had ’1”
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, “What had
they to do there? That they came on shore without leave, and
that they should not plant or build upon the island; it was
none of their ground.” “Why,” says the Spaniard, very
calmly, “ Seignior Inglese, they must not starve. ” The English-
man replied, like a true rough-hewn Tarpaulin, “ They might
starve 3 they should not plant nor build in that place.” “ But
what must they do then, scignior ‘i” said the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, “Do! They should be servants, and
work for them.” “But how can you expect that of them,”-
says the Spaniard, “that are not bought with your money?
you have no right to make them servants.” The Englishman
answered, “ The island was theirs, the governor had given it
to them, and no man had anything to do there but themselves ;”
and with that swore by his Maker that they would go and burn
all their new huts, they should build none upon their land.
“\Vhy, scignior,” says the Spaniard, “by the same rule we
must be your servants too?” “Ay,” says the bold dog, “and
so you shall too, before we have done with you ;” mixing two
or three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The
Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them, and starting up, one
says to the other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins),
“Come, Jack, let us go and have t’other brush with them;
we’ll demolish their castle, I’ll warrant you; they shall plant
no colony in our dominions.”
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things
among themselves of what they would do to the Spaniards too,
when opportunity offered ; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not
so perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars,
only that in general they threatened them hard for taking the
two Englishmen’s part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems
they wandered about the country part of the night, and then
lying down in the place which I used to call my bower, they
were weary and overslept themselves. The case was this : they
had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor
men when they were asleep ; and, as they acknowledged after-
wards, intended to set re to their huts while they were in
them, and either burn them there, or murder them as they
came out. As malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very
strange they should not have been kept awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning
and murdering, it happened, very luckily for them all, that
they were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded rogues
came to their huts.
A Diaholical Outrage. 313
When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins,
who, it seems, was the forwardest ,man, called out to his com-
rade, “Ha, Jack! here’s the nest, but the birds are own.”
They mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently that
the Spaniards had given them notice'of it ; and with that they
shook hands, and swore to one another that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made: this
bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men’s habita—
tion. They did not set re indeed to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from
limb that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any
sign on the ground where they stood. They tore all their little
collected household stud in pieces, and threw everything about
in such a manner that the poor men afterwards found some of '
their things a mile from their habitation. When they had
done this, they pulled up all the young trees the poor men had
planted, pulled up an enclosure they had made to secure their
cattle and their corn, and, in a word, sacked and plundered
everything as completely as a horde of Tartars would have
done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to nd them out,
and had resolved to ght them wherever they had been, though
they were but two to three ; so that, had they met, there cer-
tainly would have been bloodshed among them, for they were
all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than
they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged
one another, when the three were gone thither, the two were
here; and afterwards, when the two went back to nd them,
the three were come to the old habitation again: we shall see
their different conduct presently. When the three came back,
like furious creatures, ushed with the rage which the work
they had been about had put into them, they came up to the
Spaniards and told them what they had done, by way of scoff
and bravado; and one of them, stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes
hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl
about, sneering in his face, says to him, “And you, Seignior
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend
your manners.” The Spaniard—who, though a quiet, civil
man, was as brave a man as could be, and, withal, a strong,
well-made man—looked at him for a good while, and then,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and
with one blow of his st knocked him down, as an ox/is felled
with a pole-axe 5 at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the
rst, red his pistol at the Spaniard immediately. He missed
his body indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one
of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than
he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he
acted all in a perfect calm 5 but now, resolving to go through
with his work, he stooped to take the fellow’s musket whom he
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who
' had red at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped
in, secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made
all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own country-
men, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards better words,
would have had their arms again. But the Spaniards,
considering the feud that was between them and the other two
. Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they could
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they
would do them no harm, and if they would live peaceably, they
would be very willing‘to assist and associate with them as they
did before 5 but that they could not think of giving them their
arms again while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with
them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened them
all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to
act with reason, and being refused their arms, they went raving
away and raging like madmen, threatening what they would
do, though they had no rearms. But the Spaniards, despis-
ing their threatening, told them they should take care how
they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle 5 for if they
did, they Would shoot them as they would do ravenous beasts,
wherever they found them 5 and if they fell into their hands
- alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this was far
from cooling them 5 but away they 'went, raging and swearing
Satisfaction Promised. . 315
like furies of hell. As'soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for having been at their plantation, and nding it all
demolished and destroyed as above, it will easily be supposed
they had provocation enough. They could scarce have room to
tell their tale, the‘Spaniardswere so eager to tell them theirs 3
and it was strange enough to nd three men thus bully nine-
teen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially, having
thus disarmed them, made light of all their threatenings 5 but
the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them,
what pains soever it cost to nd them out. But the Spaniards
interposed here too, and told them, that as they had disarmed
them, they could not consent that they (the two) should pursue
them with rearms, and perhaps kill them. “But,” said the
grave Spaniard, who was their governor, “we will endeavour
to make them do you justice if you will leave it to us ; for as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when their
passion is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance,
we promise you to make no peace with them without having a
full satisfaction for you. Upon this condition we hope you
will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your
own defence.” The two Englishmen yielded to this very
awkwardly, and with great reluctance ,' but the Spaniards pro-
tested they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last. “For,” said they, "‘ we are not so many
of us 3 here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity we
should not be all good friends.” At length they did consent,
and waited for the issue of the thing, living for some days with
the Spaniards, for their own habitation was destroyed.
In about ve days’ time, the three vagrants, tired with
wandering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly
lived on turtles’ eggs all that while, came back to the grove,
and nding my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the governor,
and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek, they
came up in a very submissive, humble manner, and begged to
be received again into the family. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them they had acted so unnaturally by their
countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that
they could not come to any conclusion without consulting the
two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would go to
them and discourse about it, and they should know in half-an-
hour. It may beguessed that they were very hard put to it :
for it seems, as they were to wait this half-hour for an answer,
they begged they would send them out some bread in the
meantime; which they did, and sent them at the same time a
large piece of goat’s esh and a broiled parrot, which they ate
very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
After half-an-hour’s consultation they were called in, and a
long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging them with
the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them—all
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now.
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and build their fellows two huts, one
of the same and the other of larger dimensions than they were
before; to fence their ground again where they had pulled up
their fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up
the land again for planting corn where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state as they
found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn and the growth of the trees and hedges not
being possible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this ; and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly,
and the whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably
together again; only that these three fellows could never be
persuaded to work—I mean for themselves—except now and,
then a little, just as they pleased. However, the Spaniards told
them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly
together, and study the good of the whole plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk about
and be as idle as they pleased; and thus, having lived pretty
well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be insolent and
troublesome as ever ; but, however, an accident happened
presently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all;
Presentiment of Evil. 317
and they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and
look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call
him—that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved—who
was now the captain or leader or governor of the rest, found
himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get
any sleep. He was perfectly well in body, as he told me the
story, only found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran upon
men ghting and killing one another ; but he was broad awake,
and could not by any means get any sleep. In short, he lay a
great while, but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise. As they lay, being so many of them, upon goat~skins
laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for them-
selves, and not in hammocks and ship-beds as I did, who was
but one, so they had little to do, when they were willing to
rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for going
any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up
he looked out, but being dark he could see little or nothing;
and besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former
account is described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted
his sight, so that he could only look up and see that it was a
clear starlight night; and hearing no noise, he returned, and
laid him down again. But it was all one, he could not sleep,
nor could he compose himself to anything like rest; but his
thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not
for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked
who it was that was up? The governor told him how it had
been with him. “ Say you so?” says the other Spaniard.
“Such things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there is
certainly some mischief working near us.” And presently he
asked him, “Where are the Englishmen ?” “They are all in
their huts,” says he, “safe enough.” ' It seems the Spaniards
had kept possession of the main apartment, and had made a
place where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny,
always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the rest.
“Well,” says the Spaniard, “there is something in it, I am
persuaded, from my own experience. I am satised our spirits
embodied have a converse with, and receive intelligence from,
the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world 5 and
this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we know how
to make use of it. Come,” says he, “let us go out and look
abroad 5 and if we nd nothing at all in it to justify the trouble,
I will tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you
of the justice of my proposing it.”
In a word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go. But they being strong and a good com-
pany, not alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to go up
by the ladder, and then pulling it up after them, to go up a
second stage to the top, but were going round through the
grove unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with
seeing a light as of re, a very little way off from them, and
hearing the voices of men—not of one or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on
the island, it was' my constant care to prevent them making the
least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon. the place;
and when by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it
so effectually, that they that got away were scarce able to give
any account of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible. Nor
did ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else, except
it was the three savages in our last encounter, who jumped into
the boat, of whom I mentioned that I was afraid they should .
go home and bring more help. Whether it was the consequence ‘
of the escape of those men that so great a number came now
together, or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
understand. But whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves or not to have seen them
at all, much less to have let the savages have seen that there
were any inhabitants in the place 5 or to have fallen upon them
so effectually as that not a man of them should have escaped,
which couldonly have been by getting in between them and
their boats. But this presence of mind was wanting to them,
which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while.
' We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with
him, surprised with this sight, ran back immediately and raised
their fellows, giving them 'an account of the imminent danger
Spying z‘lze Enemy. 319
they were all in ,- and they again as readily took the alarm.
But it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within
where they were, but that they must all run out to see how
things stood. .
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they
had opportunity enough for some hours to view them by the
light of three res they had made at a distance from one
another. What they were doing they knew not, and what to
do themselves they knew not: for, rst, the enemy were too
many; and secondly, they did not keep together, but were
divided into several parties, and were on shore inseveral places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight 3
and as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the
shore, they made no doubt but, rst or last, some of them
would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some other place
where they would see the token of inhabitants. And they
were in great perplexity also for fear of their ock of goats,
which would have been little less than starving them if they
should have been destroyed. So the rst thing they resolved
' upon was to despatch three men away before it was light, viz.,
two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away
to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen
the savages all together in one body, and at any distance from
their canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them,
to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained, for
they were some of them two miles off from the other, and, as
it appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should
take, and beating their brains in considering their present cir-
cumstances, they resolved at last, while it was still dark, to
send the old savage, Friday’s father, out as a spy, to learn, if
possible, something concerning them, what they came for, and
what they intended to do. The old man readily undertook it ; 4
and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour or two,
he brings word that he had been among them undiscovered ;
that he found they were two parties, and of two several nations,
who had war with one another, and had had a great battle in
their own country; and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the ght, they were by more chance landed '
all on the same island, for the deVouring their prisoners and
making merry. But their coming so by chance to the same-
place had spoiled all their mirth; that they were in 'a great
rage at one another; and that they were so near, that ~he-
believed they would ght again as soon as daylight began to
appear. . But he did not perceive that they had any notion 'of
anybody-being on the island but themselves. He had hardly‘
made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, by
the unusual noise. they made, that the two little arm'ies were
engaged in a bloody ght. ,
Friday’s father used all the arguments he could to persuade
our people to lie close, and not be seen. He told them their
safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie
still, and the savages would kill one another to their hands,
and then the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the English-
men; their curiosity was so importunate upon their prudentials,
that they must run out and see the battle. However, they
used some caution too; viz, they .did not go openly, just by
, their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see them
manage the ght, and, as they thought, not be seen by them;
but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall nd hereafter.
, The battle was very erce; and if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of
them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirit, and of
great policy in guiding the ght. The battle, they said, held
two hours before they could guess which party would be beaten;
but then that party which was nearest our people’s habitation-
began 'to appear weakest, and after some time more, some of .
them began to y; and this put our men again into great con~
sternation, lest any of those that ed should run into the grove
before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby involuntarily dis—
‘ cover the place; and that by consequence the pursuers should i
do the like in search of them. Upon this they resolved that
'theyiwould stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove they, should sally out over the wall and kill
them: so that, if poSsible, not one should return to give an ~
account of it. They ordered also that it should be done with
\ 1. ~li1l ivlli.|!|i. . It ...-l|l..l.i|!1|lillivll-ollrlloll l. .l,.!.|a| \ . I . . 1.. !



é..-
-................r. ., ;, l .w via--.)
» a/..v..H '
.v4 \r .Ib
4| 1 .
Ci/m/
.JUQY



‘ an
5; in a .
.. a \WWW
...













T—
m




_
_
A:

. . ; A... . . .. .... .. 1 .. . 1.1 . A 1
_.._ a a
.__1,...,\.,_,,. maxi;
m m


_-












_—
~—




















































































m
\
l \
_____ _


MAKING PRISONER“.
\. l. 7
r1 . _ . . .
M“ L. J va,r...l;.r _. . . . r . ._ _ . .. . .. .
M . 4.. . . . .. .. . .. .. . _ . | .. . .. .......
_ _ . . .. . .“ .
.. . . . . h .. .. h
, ...
_. r . _ .
. . ~ \ _ m. ._
._ o ,1 i 1. > .
.- _ . n v n ~
I r \ _
. .




_ 1. r _ u
. .. r , Q .
_ . . .
\
e
1*: a \ _ n _ p I
a 4 n l ..
_ . v I \l v
, ¢ . . . . _ . . .
. . p s .
» I 1 4 . ' 4.
a f a. _ . .. . _
r. .. . . .
(1. .. . , i a . _
Mn.» . .. . _ . . . . t e
_ . \
.... . . . . . . .
. .
"w; _. a .
NIH, , _ r . . ..
1  . . . i r \ \ L
“if. . . . . . .
s e . r .. _
. _ ‘ / . Y .
. . _
\ _



. .
, . a. . .
4 _ e I . . ..
\ I i _ < v» I
_ . i L . .1:
. I \
n . .
. . . . 1 .
~ 1 1 4.
. . .- _ |
. _ 1
. . . . ..
i - .' .
_ _ 4 _ r . _ . x
1‘. . r _
I I. - _ r . I
. r h . : v . J r . . . i-
o . . r‘ .
~ ~ _
a _. I . . e v I I .
. , .. . ... i _ _. . . . /
\ . . ~ ~ - .
r. <_ < . _ I . l _
. . _ . . I. , .4;
. . . I . 1 _ . - h.
. . __ ._. . ._.. .

Titree Fugitives take”. 321
their swords, or by knocking them down with the stocks of
their muskets; but not by shooting them, for fear of the noise.
As they expected, it fell out. Three of the routed army ed
for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not
in the least knowing whither they went, but running as into a
thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men’s
great satisfaction, viz., that the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone. Upon this the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not suffer them
to kill the three fugitives; but sending three men out by the '
top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind them,
and surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people ed to their canoes, and got
off to sea. The victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very
little; but drawing themselves into a body together, gave two -
grea‘t screaming shouts, which they supposed was by way of
triumph; and so the ght ended. And the same day, about
three o’clock in the afternoon, they also marched to their
canoes; and thus the Spaniards had the island again free to
themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages for
several years after. ’
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their
den ; and viewing the eld of battle, they found about two-
and-thirty men dead upon the spot. Some were killed with
great long arrows, some of which were found sticking in their
bodies; but most of them were killed with their great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the eld
of battle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These
swords were strange great unwieldy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them. Most of those men that were
killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we may
say, or as we call it in English, their brains knocked out 3 and
several their arms and legs broken: so that it is evident they
ght with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one
wounded man that was not stone dead ; for either they stay by
their enemy till they have quite killed him, or they carry all
the woundedv men that are not quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while.
The sight had lled them with horror, and the consequences
Y
. i
_ 311' “.1 7‘?
appeared terrible to the last degree, even to them, if ever they
should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill
our cattle. And they professed to me that the thoughts of
being eaten up like beef and mutton, though it was supposed
it was not to be till they were dead, had something in it so
horrible that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick
when they thought of it, and lled their minds with such
unusual terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks
after. This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I
have been speaking of ; and for a great while after they were
tractable, and went about the common business of: the whole
society well enough—planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be
all naturalised to the country. But some time after this they
fell all into such measures as brought them into a great deal of
‘ trouble. ,
'They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and
these three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them“
servants, and taught them to work for them; and as slaves
they did well enough. But they did not take their measures
with them as I did by my man Friday, viz., to begin with them
upon the principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct
them in the rational principles of life, much less of religion,
civilising- and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate
arguments; but as they gave them their food every day, so
they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed
in drudgery enough. But they failed in this by it, that they
never had them to assist them and ght for them as I had my
man Friday, who was as true to me as the very esh upon
my bones. -
But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends,
for common danger, as-I said above, had effectually reconciled
them, they began to consider their general circumstances. And
the rst thing that came under their consideration was whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to their advan-
tage, they should not rather move their habitation, and plant
in some more proper place for their safety, and especially for
the security of their cattle and corn?
| Second Thoughts . best. 323
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they
would not remove their habitation ; because that, some time or
other, they thought they might hear from their governor again,
meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek them, I
should be sure to direct them to that side, where, if they
should nd the place demolished, they would conclude the
savages had killed us all, and we were gone, and so our supply
would go too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the valley where my cave was, where the 7
land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was
land enough. However, upon second thoughts, they altered
one part of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove
part of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there;
and so if one part was destroyed, the other might be saved.
And one part of prudence they used, which it was very well
they did; viz., that they never trusted those three savages
which they had prisoners with knowing anything of the plan-
tation they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had
there : _much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of
necessity, as a safe retreat, and whither they carried also the
two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming
away. But, however, they resolved not to change their habita-
tion ; yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it, rst
with a wall or fortication, and then with a grove of trees, so,
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed,
of which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to
cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than before.
To this purpose, as I planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good distance
before the entrance into my apartment, they went on in the
same manner, and lled up the rest of that whole space of
ground, from the trees I had set quite'down to the side of the
creek, where, as I said, I landed my oats, and even in the
very ooze where the tide owed, not so much as leaving any
place to land, or any sign that there had been a landing there-
abouts. These stakes also being of a wood very forward to
grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to have them
generally very much larger and taller than those which I had
planted; and as they grew apace, so they planted them so
' very thick and close together, that when they had been three
or four years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any
considerable way into the plantation 5 and as for that part
which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man’s
thigh. And among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisado a
quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to pene-
trate it, but with a little army to cut it all down, for a little
dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all, for they did the same by all the ground
to the right hand and to the left, and round even to the top of
the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for themselves, to
come out but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill,
and then lifted up, and placed again from the rst stage up to
the top 5 and when the ladder was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come at them.
This was excellently 'well contrived 5 nor was it less than what
they afterwards found occasion for : which served to convince
me that as human prudence has the authority of Providence to
justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Providence to set
it to work 5 and if we listened carefully to the voice of it, I am
fully persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to. But
this by the way.
I return to the story. They lived two years after this in
perfect retirement, and had no more visits from the savages.
They had indeed an alarm given them one morning, which put
them into a great consternation 5 for some of the Spaniards
being out early one morning on the west side, or rather end of
the island (which, by the way, was that end where I never
went, for fear of being discovered), they were surprised with
seeing above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.I '
5 They made the best of their way home in hurry enough 5 and
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day
and the next, going out only at night to make observation.
But they had the good luck to be mistaken 5 for wherever the
savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design. '
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen 5
one' of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one
of the three slaves which I had mentioned they had taken, '
C ioit War. ‘ i 325
because the fellow had not done something right which he bid
1 him do, and seemed a little intractable in his showing him,
drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his
side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to
kill him. One of the Spaniards who was by, seeing him give
the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at
his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he
had cut the poor creature’s arm off,- ran to him, and entreating
him not to murder the poor man, clapped in between him and
the savage to prevent the mischief. The fellow, being enraged
the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and
swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel which he had in his hand (for they were all working in
the eld about their corn-land) knocked the brute down.
Another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help
his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down 3 and then two
Spaniards more came in to help their man, and a third English-
man fell in upon them. They had none of them any rearms,
or any other weapons but hatchets and other tools, except this
.third Englishman 3 he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them
both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners.
The next question was, what should be done with them? They
had been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, '
and so idle withal, that they knew not what course to take
with them, for they were mischievous to the highest degree,
and cared not what hurt they did to any man 3 so that, in
short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor told them in so many words,
that if they had been of his own country _he would have
hanged them, for all laws and all governors were to preserve
society, and those who were dangerous to the society ought to'
be expelled out of it 3 but as they were Englishmen, and that
, it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they
all 0Wed their - preservation and deliverance, he would use
. them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to the
judgment of the other two Englishmen who were their country-
men. '
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up and said they
desired it might not be left to them—“ For,” says he, “ I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows ;” and with that
he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had
proposed to have all the ve Englishmen join together and
murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will
Atkins, “ How, Seignior Atkins,” says he, “ would you murder
us all? What have you to say to that?” The hardened '
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and
swore they would do it still before they had done with them.
“Well, but, Seignior Atkins,” says the Spaniard, “ what have
we done to you, that you would kill us? And what would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent you
killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why will you
put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins?” says the '
Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard’s making a jest of it, that had'he
not been held\by three men, and withal had no weapons with
him, it was thought he would have attempted to kill the
Spaniard in the middle, of all the company. This hair-brained
‘ carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be
done. The two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who had saved
the poor savage, were of the opinion they should hang one of
the three for an example to the rest, and that particularly it
should be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with
his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the _‘poor savage was in such a miserable con-
dition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said, “ N o ; it
was an Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he had
murdered half of them ; nay,” he said, “if he had been killed
himself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak, it should
. be that they would pardon him.” -
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard,
that there was no gainsaying it ; and as merciful counsels are
most apt to prevail where they are so earnestly pressed, so they
all came into it. But then it was to be considered what should
I be done to keep them from doing the mischief they designed;
The Refrohates Banished. 327
for all agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used for
preserving the society from danger. After a long debate it was
agreed, rst, that, they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon; and
should be turned out of the society, and left to live where they
would, and how they would, by themselves ; but that none of
the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse with
them, speak with them, or have anything to .do with them:
that they should be forbidden to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to
commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any
of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to
the society, they should die without mercy, and they would
shoot them wherever they could nd them. ' I
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence, considered a little upon it, and turning to the two
- honest Englishmen, said, “ Hold, you must reect that it will
be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve ; we must therefore allow them provisions."
So he caused to be added, that they should have a proportion
of corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to
sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some of
their 'own ; that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats,
and six kids given them, as well for present subsistence as for a
store; and that they should have tools given them for their
work in the elds, such as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the
like: but they should have none of these tools or provisions
unless they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt
or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow-
Englishmen. ‘
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out
to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory,
as neither content to go away nor to stay; but as there was no
remedy they went, pretending to go and choose a place where
they would settle themselves to plant and live by themselves ;
and some provisions were given them, but no weapons.
About four or ve days after, they came again for some
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation
and plantation ; and it was a ‘very convenient place indeed, on
the remotest part of the island, north-east, much about the
place where I landed in my rst voyage, when I was driven
out to sea, the Lord knows whither, in my attempt to sail
round the island.
'Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and con-
trived them in a manner like my rst habitation, being close
' under the side of a hill, having some trees growing already on
three sides of it, so that by planting others it would be very-
easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched for.
They desired some dried goat-skins for beds and covering,
which were given them: and upon giving their word that they
would not disturb the rest, or injure any of the plantations,
they gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could spare 5
some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a word, any-
thing they wanted but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and
had got in their rst harvest, though the quantity was but -
small, the parcel of land they had planted being but little 5 for,
indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a great
deal of work upon their hands. And when they came to make
boards and pots and such'things, they were quite out of their
element, and could make nothing of it 5 and when the rainy
season came on, for want of a cave in the earth they could not
keep their grain dry, and it was ~in great danger of spoiling.
And this humbled them. much; so they came and begged the
Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did, and in
four days worked a great hole in the side of the bill for them, 7_
big enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain.
But it was a poor place at best compared to mine, and especi-
ally as mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged
it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former
villainy they had committed, brought mischief enough upon
- them, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
The three new associates began, it seems, tobe weary of the
laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering their
circumstances: and a whim took them that they would make
. a voyage to the continent, from whence the savages came, and
would try if they could seize upon some prisoners among the
A New Expedition. 325
natives there, and bring them home, so. as to make them do the
laborious part of the 'work for them, "
The project was not so preposterous,lif they had gone no
further 3 but they did nothing, and proposednothing, but had
either mischief in the design or mischief jj'i“the event. And
if I may give my opinion, they seemed‘fto be under a blast
I from heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue
visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with
the Divine justice? It was certainly-an apparent vengeance
on their crime of ‘ mutiny and piracy that brought them to the
state they were in 3 and as they showed not the least remorse ‘
for the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as, particu-
larly, the piece of monstrous cruelty of wOunding a poor slave
' because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do
what he directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made
him a cripple all his life, and in a place where no surgeon or
medicine could be had fer his cure 3 and what was still worse,
the murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the inten-
tional murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterwards the
formed design they all laid to murder the Spaniards in cold
blood, and in their sleep. '
But I leave observing, and return to the story. - The three
fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very
humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with'them. The >
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was
this : That they were tired of living in the manner they did 3
that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries, they
wanted 3 and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved. But if the Spaniards would give them leave to take
one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them
arms and ammunition proportioned to their defence, they
would go over to the main and seek their fortune, and so
deliver them from the trouble of supplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
. honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were
running into 3 told them they had suffered such hardships upon
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy,
tell them that they would be starved or be murdered, and bade '
them consider of it. _ ’
,
J
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they
stayed here, for they could not work, and would not work, and
they could but be starved abroad ; and if they were murdered,
there was an end of them, they had no wives or' children to
- cry after them; and in short, insisted importunately upon their
demand, declaring that they would go, whether they gave them
any arms or no. ‘
.The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and
be in no condition to defend themselves; and that, though they
could ill spare their rearms, having not enough for themselves,
yet they would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a
cutlass, and each man a. hatchet, which they thought was
sufcient for them. In a word, they accepted the offer, and
having baked them bread enough to serve them a month, and
given them as much goats’ esh as they could eat while it was
sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of fresh water,
and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in the canoe
for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
broad. ' ' '
The boat indeed was a large one, and would very well have
carried fteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big
for them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze and the
ood-tide with them, they did well enough. They had made
a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, '
which they had sewed or laced together; and away they went,
- merrily enough. The Spaniards called after them, “ Bon
oeyojo ,-” and no man ever thought of seeing them any' more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another, 'and to the
two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and'
comfortably they lived, now these three turbulent fellows were
gone: as for their ever- coming again, that was the remotest
thing from their thoughts that could be imagined ; when,
behold, after two-and-twenty days’ absence, one of the English-
men, being abroad upon his planting-work, sees three strange
men coming towards him at a distance, with guns upon' their -
- shoulders! ' ' '
Awayaruns the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes
' frightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him
they were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the
The Reprohates Return; 331 -
island, he could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing a while,
says to him, “ How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They
are the savages, to be sure.” “ N o, no,” says the Englishman;
“ they'are men in clothes, with arms.” “Nay, then,” says the '
Spaniard, “why are you so concerned? If they are not
savages, they must be friends, for there is no Christian nation '
upon earth but will do us good rather than harm.” ' ~
While they were debating thus, comes the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood, which Was new planted,
hallooed to them. They presently knew their voices, and so
all the wonder of that kind ceased; But now the admiration
was turned upon another question, viz., What could be the
matter, and what made them come back again? _ x.
It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz., that
they reached the land in two days, or something less ; but
nding the people alarmed at their coming, and. preparing with
boWs and arrows to ght them, they- durst not go on shore, but
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came
to a great opening, by which they perceived that the land' they
saw from 'our island was not the main, but an island: that
entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island on
the right hand, north, and several more West; and being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands ,
Which lay west, and went boldly on shore: that they found the
people very courteous and friendly to them, and that they gave
several roots and some dried sh, and. appeared very sociable;
and the women, as well as the men, were very forward to
supply them with anything they could get forthem to eat, and'
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They_continued herefour days, and inquired as well as they
could of them by signs what nations were this way, and that
way; and were told of several erce and terrible people that
lived almost every way, who, as they made signs to them, used
to eat men. But as for themselves, they said that they never
ate men or women, except only such as they took in the wars ;
and then they owned that they made a great feast and ate their
prisoners. ‘ _ _ '
The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that
kind, and they told them about two moons ago—pointing to
the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their great king
had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war,
and they were feeding them to make them fat for the next
feast. The Englishmen Seemed mighty desirous to see those


“ THEY DRAGGED THE PRISONERS INTO THE BOAT.”
prisoners 5 but the others mistaking them, thought they were
desirous to have some of them to carry away for their own
eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of
the sun and then to the rising, which was to signify that the
next morning at sunrising they would bring some for them 5
A Present from the Savages. _ 333
and accordingly the next morning they brought down ve
.women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen to
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so
many cows and oxen down to a seaport town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to
do. To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest aront -
to the savage gentry that offered them 3 and what‘ to do with
them they knew not. However, after some debate, they re-
solved to accept of them 3 and in return they gave‘ the savages
that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife,
and six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did not
I understand their use, they seemed particularly pleased with 3
and then, tying the poor creatures’ hands behind them, they
(the people) dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have. expected that they should have gone to work
with them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, '
and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. But having
taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could
well pass between people, where, on either side, they understood
not one word they could say, they put off with their boat, and
came back towards the rst island, where, when they arrived,
they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many
of them for their occasion. ‘
In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communi-
cation with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them
understand anything. Nothing they could say to them, or
give them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to
murder them. They rst of all unbound them 3 but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the womenfas if they had
just felt the knife at their throats 3 for they immediately con-
cluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they
gave them anything to eat, it was the same thing 3 they then
concluded it was for fear they should sink in esh, and so not
be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more
particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see whether
he or she was fattest, and ttest to kill. Nay, after they had
brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them,
“Where their new family was?” And being told that they-
had brought them on shore, and put them into one of their
_ huts, and were come up to beg some victuals for them, they
(the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say,
the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the place and see
them, and did so, and Friday’s father With them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound ; for .
I when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not take the boat and make their escape.
There, I say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First, there
Were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and
fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-ve years 'of age; and ve
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty; two more
not above four or ve-and—twenty ; and the fth, a tall, comely
maiden about sixteen or seventeen. The women were well-
favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape and features, only
tawny; and two of them, had they been perfectly white, would
have passed for very handsome women even in London itself,
having pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour, especially when they came afterwards to be clothed
and dressed, as they‘ called it, though that dress was very in-
different, it must be confessed ; of which hereafter.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
. Spaniards, who were (to give them a just character) men of the
best behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect
good-humour, that ever I met with, and, in particular, of the
most modesty, as will presently appear: I say, the sight was
very uncouth, to see three naked men and ve naked women
all together bound, and 'in the most miserable circumstances
that human nature could be supposed to be, viz. , to be expecting
every moment to be dragged out and have their brains knocked
out, and then to be eaten up like acalf that is killed for a
dainty. _
The rst thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday’s
father, to go in and see rst if he know any of them, and then
if he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man
Women on the Island.’ - 335 ’
came in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them;
neither could any of them understand a word he said or a sign
he could make, except one of the women. However, this was
enough to ansWer the end, which was to satisfy them that the
men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians; that
they abhorred eating of men or women, and that they might
be sure they would not be killed. As soon as they were assured
, of this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward and
several ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several nations. '
The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next
place, to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to
work for the men who had brought them away, to save their
lives ; at which they all fell a dancing ; and presently one fell
to taking up this, and another that, or anything that lay next,
to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing
to work. . >
The governor, who found that the having women among
them would presently be attended with some inconvenience,
and might occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the
three men what they intended to do with these women, and
how they intended to_ use them—whether as servants or as
wives? One of the Englishmen answered, very boldly and
readily, “That they would use them as both.” To which the
governor said, “I am not going to restrain you from it—you
are your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just,
for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that reason only, viz., that you will all engage, that
if any of you take any of these women as a wife, that he shall
'- take but one; and. that, having taken one, none else shall touch
her: for though we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but
reasonable that, while you stay here, the woman any of you
takes should be maintained by the man that takes her, and.
should be his wife; I mean,” says he, “while he continues _ '
here, and that none else shall have anything to do [with her.”
All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without
any diiculty. - _
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed
to take any of them? But every one of them answered, “N 0.”
Some of' them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did
not like women that were not Christians 5 but all together de-
clared that they would not touch one of them; which was an
instance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my travels.
On the other hand, to be short, the ve Englishmen took them
every one a wife; that is to say, a temporary wife: and so
they set up a new form of living 5 for the Spaniards and
Friday’s father lived in my old habitation, which they had en-
larged exceedingly within. The three servants which were
taken in the late battle of the savages lived with them 5 and“
these carried on the main part of the colony, supplying all the
rest with food, and assisting them in anything as they could,
or as they found necessity required. '
But the wonder of this story was, how ve such refractory,
ill-matched fellows should agree about these women, and that
two of them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially
seeing two or three of them were, without comparison, more
agreeable than the others. But they took a good way enough
to prevent quarrelling among themselves 5 for they set the ve
women by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all
I into the other hut and drew lots among them who should
choose rst. '
' He that drew to choose rst went away by himself to the
hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her
' he chose 5 and it was worth observing that he that chose rst
took her that was reckoned the homeliest and the oldest of the
ve, which made mirth enough among the rest 5 and even the
Spaniards laughed at it. But the fellow considered better than
any of them, that it was application and business they were to
expect assistance in, as much as in anything else; and she
proved the best wife of all the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition re-
~ turned upon them again, and they rmly 'believed they were
now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the English
sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a
most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their leave
of her with such agonies and such affection as would have
grieved the hardest heart in the world 5 nor was it possible for
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be im-
mediately murdered, until they fetched the old man, Friday’s -
N
C ltoosiag Wives. 337
father, who immediately let them know that the ve men who
had fetched them out one by one had chosen them for their
Wives. - .
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was
a little, over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came
and helped them 3 and in a few hours they had built them
every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart 3 for those
they had already were crowded with their tools, household stuff,
and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest
off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore
of the island, so that they continued separated as before 3 and
thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as I might
say, three towns were begun to be planted. "
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God’s providence
are in such a disposition of things I cannot say), the two hone'st
fellows had the two worst wives, and the three reprobates, that
were scarce worth hanging, that were t for nothing, and neither
seemed born to do themselves good or any one else, had three
clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives : not that the rst
two were ill wives as to their temper or humour, for all the
ve were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures,
rather like slaves than wives 3 but .my meaning is, they were
not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly
and neat. ' ' _' ' _
Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
application on one hand,. and to the disgrace of a slothful,
negligent, idle temper on the other, that when I came to the
place, and viewed the several improvements, plantings, and
management of the several little colonies, the two men had so
far outgone the three, that there was no comparison. They
had indeed both of them as much ground laid out for corn as
they wanted 3 and the reason was, because, according to iny
rule, nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more corn
than they wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the
planting, of the fences, and indeed of everything else, was easy
to be seen at rst view. .
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about '
their huts, so that, when you came to the place, nothing was
to be seen but a wood 3 and though they had twice had their
Z _
'4 If“ m ‘91“ ""‘ '_‘" ' . .' “‘"w. ‘* **T_”‘v~"\l" H. 1"- ,, twig”! , *"r
" l . ' r ' , . . . / ' '-
1 \ h ' ‘ *‘s .
338 Rooz'usou Crusoe.
plantations demolished, once by their own countrymen, and
once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they had
restored all 'again, and everything was thriving and ourishing
aboutthem. They had grapes planted in order, and managed
like a vineyard, though they had themselves never seen any-
thing of that kind; and by their good ordering their vines,
' their/ grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest part of
the woods, where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
had found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their
hands, and where, when the mischief which followed happened,
they secured their wives and children so as they could never
be found; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and
poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so easily, made the
wood impassable, except in some places, where they climbed
up to get over the outside part, and then went on by ways of
their own leaving. .
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilised by their new settlement compared to what
they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the
same opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a
proigate mind never left them, and that was their idleness.
It is true, they planted corn and made fences; but Solomon’s
Words were never better veried than in them: “I went by the
vineyard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown with thorns.”
For when the Spaniards came to view their crop‘, they could
not see it in some places for weeds. The hedge had several
gaps in it, where the Wild goats had got in and eaten up the
corn ; perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the
' stable-door after the steed was stolen. Whereas, when they
looked on the colony of the other two, there was the very face
of industry and success upon all they did; there was 'not a
Weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their
hedges. And they, on the other hand, veried Solomon’s
words in another place, “that the diligent hand maketh rich ;”
for everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty within
' and without ; they had more tame cattle than the others, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and 'yet more pleasure
and diversiOn too.
"‘64". "wear" * ' - ’ ' " “ ‘
> . ' 4 _ < K ,1 L \ _ '
Another Visit _Savages. 339
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and '
' cleanly within doors, and having learned the English way of
dressing and cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who,
as' I said, was cook’s mate on board the ship, they dressed their
husbands’ victuals very nicely and well; whereas the other
could not be brought to understand it; but then the husband,
who, as I say, had been ,cook’s mate, did it himself. But as
for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched
turtles’ eggs, and caught sh and birds; in a word, anything
but labour; and they fared accordingly. The diligent lived
well and comfortably, and the slothful lived hard and. beg-
garly ; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the '
world. ' ,
But now I come to a scene different from all that had
happened before, either to them or to me; and the origin of
the story was this :— '
' Early one morning there came on shore ve or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you please, and there is no
room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon their slaves. But that part was now so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern them-
selves about it as I did; but having been -made sensible by >
their experience that their only business was to lie concealed,
and that if they were not seen by any of the savages they
would go off again quietly when their business was done,
having as yet _not the least notion of there being any inhabi- '
tants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of this,
they had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three
plantations to keep within doors, and not showv themselves,
only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when the
boats went to sea again. i .
This was, without doubt, very\ right ; but a disaster spoiled
all these measures, and made it known among the savages that
there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the
desolation of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with
the savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again,
and some of them had the curiosity to' go to the place where
they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to
their great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and
lying fast asleep upon the ground. _It was supposed they had
‘
Rodinson Crusoe.
'4 “fwitw
- either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts,
they were fallen asleep and would not stir when the others
went, or they wandered into the woods, and did not come back
in time to be taken in. .
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and per-
fectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it
happened, was with them, and his ,advice was asked, but he
professed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had‘
enough already 5 and as to killing 'them, there were none of
them inclined to do that. The Spaniard governor told me they
could not think of shedding irmocent blood; for as to them,
the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of
their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And here I must, in
justice to these Spaniards, observe that, let the accounts of
Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never
met with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in any
foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate,
,virtuous, so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these
Spaniards 5 and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their
very nature—no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous pas-
sions—and yet all of them men of' great courage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing
the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their
justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages.
as‘ above. After some consultation, they resolved upon this,
that they would lie still a while longer, until, if possible, these
three men might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard
recollected that the three savages had no boat, and that if they
were left to rove about the island they would certainly discover
thatthere were inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone
that way. Upon this they went back again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still 5 so they resolved to awaken them, and
take them prisoners 5 and they did so. The poor fellows were
strangely frightened when they were seized upon and bound,
I
and afraid, like the women, that they should be murderedand
eaten 5 for it seems those people think all the world does as
they do, eating men’s esh: but they were soon made easy as
to that, and away they carried them.
It. was very happy for them that they did not carry them
\- Q8”"W~ ; p— w
w' ‘
The 1 [stand Invaded. 341
home to their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill 3 but
they carried them rst to the bower, where was the chief of
their country work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting
the corn, &c. 3 andafterwards they carried them to the habita»
tion of the two Englishmen. ‘ ,
Here they were set to work, though it was not much they
had for them to do; and whether it was by negligence in
guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend -
themselves, I know not, but one of them ran away, and taking
to the woods, they could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon
after in some other boats or canoes of savages who came on
shore three or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on >
their revels as usual, went off again in two days’ time. This
thought terried them exceedingly 3 for they concluded, and
that not without good cause indeed, that if this fellow came
safe home among his comrades, he would certainly give them .
an account that there were people in the island, as also how
few and weak they were : for this savage, as I observed before,
had neVer been told, and it was very happy that he had not, 3
how many there were, or where they lived 3 nor had he ever
seen or heard the re of any of their guns, much less had they
shown him any of their other retired places, such as the cave
in the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had
made, and the like. _
The rst testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this, six
canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or. ten men in a
canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island, where
they never used to come before, and landed, about an hour
'after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the
habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had
been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been all
there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man
of them would have escaped; but the case differed now very
much, for two men to fty was too much odds. The two men
had the happiness to discover them about a league off, so that
it was above an hour before they landed 3 and as they landed~
a\mile from their huts, it was some time before they “could
come at them. Now, having great reason to believe that they ‘
were betrayed, the rst thing (they did Was to bind the two
slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom -
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very
faithful to them) to lead them, with their two wives, and
whatever they could carry away with them, totheir retired
places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there
to bind the two fellows hand and foot, until they heard further.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore,
and that they bent their course directly that way, they opened
' the fences where the milch goats were kept, and drove them all
out, leaving them to straggle in the woods whither they
pleased, that the savages might think they were all bred wild;
but the rogue who came with them was too cunning for that,
and gave them an account of it all, for they went directly to
the place. '
When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives
and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who
came with the women, and who was at their place by accident,
away to the Spaniardsv with all~speed to give them the alarm,
and desire speedy help; and in the meantime they took their
'arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards
the place in the wood where their wives were sent, keeping at
a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which we
the savages took. ~
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly to
l ' _ their habitation, and in a moment more could see all their huts
and household stuff aming up together, to their great grief and
mortication; for they had a very great loss, to‘them irretriev-
able, at least for some time. They kept their station for a
while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread them- .
selves all over the place, rummaging every way and every place
they could think of in search of prey, and in particular for the
people, of Whom it now plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not
secure where they stood, because, as it was likely some of the
wild people might come that way, so they might come too
many together, thought it proper to make anotherretreat about
half-a-mile farther, believing, as it afterwards happened, that
the farther they strolled the fewer would be tOgether.
‘ Prepared for the Enemy. ‘343
The next halt was at' the entrance into a very thick-grown ~
part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood,
which was hollow and vastly large ; and in this tree they both
took their standing, resolving to see there what might offer.
They had not stood there long before two of the saVages
appeared running directly that way, as if they already had
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them ;
and a little way farther they espied three more coming after
them, and ve more beyond them, all coming the same way;
besides which they saw seven or eight more at a distance, run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like
sportsmen beating for their game. - '
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they
should stand and keep their posture or y; but after a very
short debate with themselves, they considered that if the
savages ranged the country thus before help came, they might
perhaps nd out their-retreat in the woods, and then all would
be lost; so they resolved to stand them there, and if they were
too many to deal with, then they would get up to the top of
the tree, from whence they doubted not to defend themselves,
re excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though all
the savages that were landed, which was near fty, were to
attack them. _ ’ - _
. Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should re at the rst two, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party, by which the two and the ve that
followed would be separated ; and they resolved to let the two .
rst pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and come '
to attack them. The two rst savages conrmed them also in -
this resolution by turning a little from them towards another
part of the wood; but the three and the ve after them came
forward directly to the tree, as if they had known the English-
men were there. Seeing them come so straight towards them,
they resolved to take them in a, line as they came; and. as they
resolved to re but one at a time, perhaps the rst shot might
hit them all three: for which purpose the man who was to re
put three or four small bullets into his piece, and having a fair
loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he t00k a
sure aim without being seen, waiting till they were within about
thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that
had escaped from them, and they both knew him distinctly,
and resolved that, if possible, he should not escape, though
they should both re 5 so the other stood ready with his piece,
that if he did not drop at the rst shot, he shOuld .be sure to
have a second. But the rst was too good a marksman to miss
his aim; for as the savages kept near one another, a little
' behind in a line, he red, and hit two of’them directly. The »
foremost was killed outright, being shot in' the head 5 the
second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the
.body and fell, but was not quite dead 5 and the third had a
little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that
went through the body of the second 5 and being dreadfully
' - frightened, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground,
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The ve that were behind, more frightened with the noise
than sensible of the danger, stood still at rst 5 for the woods
made the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the
echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising
from all parts screaming, and every sort making a different noise-
according to their kind, just as it was when I red the rst gun
that perhaps was ever shot off in that place since it was an island.
However, all' being silent again, and they not knowing what
the matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the
place where their companions lay in a condition miserable
enough. ‘ And here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood all of
a huddle over the wounded man talking, and, as may be sup-'
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt 5 and who, it
is very rational to believe, told them that a ash of re rst,
and immediately- after that thunder from their gods, had killed
two and wounded him. ' This, I say, is rational 5 for nothing
is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so
they had never heard a gun in all their lives, or so much as
heard of a gun; neither knew they anything of killing or
wormding at a distance with re and bullets : if they had, one
might reasonably believe they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned in viewing the fate of their fellows without some appre-
hension of their own. ‘ -
| r l r » s ' . . . .._ ... r 1' .a n .r
i. . . r o -a s .. . . .. _r I. . ‘ I . A Q .o .
‘. r ., ville . Q d... n , H . .. o
. v V. . - a . I . e . .. ... | x
. .. . . - . . . . . . I . . _ r ‘ 0 s
O '4 v i r . i -
a .e a e u L o
v v . . . t . . . . r \
. |
. . \
... . . 4‘ . ~ . . r . a u
_\ t \ .
..'.n . . . . n o .
.. . in i a _ ~ . .
. n
. i ' .
Q . \ . o . . . . - 4
_ Q
. 4
l . k
- ~ .0 -
_ . - '
. 7
r
Y
i o . v
.
t
. v .
. _
I .5. J . . r
4 l -


Q I
0.1 . _r
V ~.<4 I c r i
r . .
a c
. . o .
-§ -
I \
v v 0 v
... .1._ 1 n -
. r
.\ .
Q s.
. .
. .
‘
v .
. a
I Q
.. . .
. _
_ .
~
7 .
.. . . \
a I 0. u
r. . .
O a . . l - I
.r‘ . . . . . ~ no
. p .
. . - v \ . .
. .
<N >
. . . 4. v. .
. Ir
-
f
-
. . . . .
. . _ .. . . . .
I . e. » . . , . . . . J .
... . . .- . . . . . .. .. . . .. . _\\\\..._
. . . . . ... A . . . . . 5:2 l .
1, r .. a t .0“ Q . . . . .. . . ..
. , . .. . . . . . .. . 1.
‘ . . , . /. J
.v . . . - . . . . , 7'._ 1,, f \
.. _ . .. .. ,.. . . . . . . .. . .7, Z”
i. i. . a . . .. . )J.¢//
. _. a . . . n. . . . _
a i r. i r . r I
\ o . .N ,
. . . . . .... \
v» Q
s; . s _ . n
. .
in >> Q
-
a .v
0.
. I Q
Q. .
-
. -v
1


Pursuit of the Survivors. I i 345
Our two men, thoughtas they confessed to me, it grieved
them to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who at the
same time had no' notion of their danger, yet, having them_ all
thus in their power, and the rst having loaded his piece again,
resolved to let y both together among them; and singling out
' by agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and killed
or very much wounded four of them; the fth, frightened even
to death, though not hurt, fell with the rest ; so that our men,
seeing them all fall together, thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged
their guns again, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise when they came to the place and found no less
than four of them alive, and of them two very little hurt, and
one not at all. This obliged them to fall upon them with the
stocks of their muskets; and rst they made sure of the run-
away savage that had been the cause of all the mischief, and
of another that was hurt in the knee, and. put them out of
their pain. Then the man that was not hurt at all came and
kneeled' down to them, with his two hands held.up, and made
piteous moans to them by gestures and signs for his life, but
could not say one word to them that they could understand.
However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a tree
hard by, and one of the Englishmen, with a piece'of rope-twine,
which he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two feet
fast together and his two hands behind him, and there they
left him, and with what speed they could made after the other
two which were gone before, fearing they or any more of them
should nd the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives-and the few goods they had left lay. They came
. once in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; '
however, they had the satisfaction to See them cross over a
valley towards the sea, quite the contrary way from that which
led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and being satis-
ed- with that, they went back to the tree where they left their
prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by his comrades,
for he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn with which
they had bound him lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were .now in as great concern as before, not knowing
what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in
what number; so they resolved to go away to the place where
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them
easy, who were in fright enough to be sure 5 for though the
savages were their own country-folk, yet they were most terribly
afraid of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge they
had of them.
When they came there they found the saVages had been in
the wood, and very near that place, but had not found it 5' for
it was indeed inaccessible from the trees standing so thick,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that
knew it, which these did not 5 they found therefore everything
very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While they
were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards
come to their assistance 5 the other ten, with their servants and
old Friday (I mean Friday’s father), were gone in a body to
defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that were kept
there, in case the savages should have roved over to that side
of the country; but they did not spread so far. With the
seven Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as I said,
were their prisoners formerly 5 and with them' also came the
savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at
the tree 5 for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter
of the seven men, and unbound the eighth and brought him
along with them, where, however, they were obliged to bind
him again, as they had the two others who were left when the
third ran away.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them 5 and they
were so afraid of their escaping that they were once resolving
to kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity
to do so for their own preservation. However, the Spaniard
governor would not consent to it, but ordered, for the present,
that they should be sent out of the way to my old cave in the
valley, and be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them,
and give them food for their subsistence, which was done; and
they were bound there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so en-
couraged that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any
longer there 5 but taking ve of the Spaniards and themselves, '
with four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout
quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages. And
T he Savages Depart: 347
rst they came to the tree where the _men lay that had been
killed; but it was easy to see that some more of the savages
had been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men
away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given
it over. From thence they advanced to the rst rising ground,
where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where
they had the mortication still to see some of the smoke 3 but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward towards
their ruined plantation 3 but a little before they came thither,
coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages
all embarking again in their canoes, in order to be gone. They
seemed sorry at rst, that there was no way to come at them
to give them a parting blow 3 but, upon the whole, they were
very well satised to be rid of them. I
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help
them to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies.
Their three countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the
least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of
it (for they, living remote eastward, knew nothing of the
matter till all was over), came and offered their help and assis-
tance, and did very friendly work for several days to restore
their habitation, and make necessaries for them. And thus in
a little time they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this they had the further satisfaction
of seeing three of the savages’ canoes come driving on shore, ‘
. and at some distance from them two drowned men; by which
they had reason to believe that they had met with a storm at
sea, which had overset some of them, for it had blown Very
hard the night after they went off. -
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand,
enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what
they had done as of what had happened to them, and to' whet
them on to another enterprize of the same nature, which they,
it seems, resolved to attempt, with sufcient force to carry all
before them: for except what the rst man had told them of
inhabitants, they could say little to it of their own knowledge,
for they never saw one man, and the fellow being killed that
had afrmed it, they had no other witness to conrm it to them.
I
It was ve or six months after this before they heard any
more of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they
had either forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of
better, when on a sudden they were invaded with a most for-
midable eet of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of
savages, 'armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought such
numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into
the utmost consternation. '
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost
side of the island, our men had that night to consult and con- I ’ _
sider what to do; and, in the rst place, knowing that their being
entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would be
much more so now, while the number of their enemies was so
great, they therefore resolved rst of all to take down the huts
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their
goats to the old cave; because they supposed the savages would
go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game
over again, though they did not new land within two leagues
of it. In the next place they drove away all the ocks of
goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged
to the Spaniards ; and, in short, left as little appearance of in“
habitants anywhere as was possible; and the next morning
early they postedthemselves with all their force at the planta-
tion of the two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed,
so it happened. These new invaders, leaving their canoes at
the east end of the island, came ranging along the shore directly
towards the place to the number of two hundred and fty, as .
near as our men could judge. Our army was but small indeed;
but that which was worse, they had not arms for all their num-
ber neither. The Whole account, it seems, stood thus: rst,
as to men, seventeen Spaniards, ve Englishmen, old Friday
(or Friday’s father), the three slaves taken with the women,
who proved very faithful, and three other slaves who lived with
the Spaniards. To arm these they had eleven muskets, ve
pistols, three fowling-pieces, ve muskets or fowling-pieces
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I
reduced, two swords, and three old halberts. ‘ -
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but
they had each a halbert or along sta’, like a quarter~sta', with
Another Invasion 6y Savages. 349
a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his
side a hatchet; also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two
of‘ the women could not be prevailed upon but they would
come into the ght ; and they had bows and arrows, which the
Spaniards had taken from the savages when the rst action
happened, which I have spoken of, where the Indians ‘fought
with one another; and the women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so often,
commanded the whole ; and Will Atkins, who, though a dread-
ful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions; and
our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no advantage
in their situation, only that Will Atkins, who now preved a
most useful fellow, with six .men, was planted just behind a
small thicket of bushes as an advanced guard, with ,orders to
let the rst of them pass by, and then re into the middle of '
them; and as! soon as he had red, to make his retreat as nimbly
as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in behind
the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket of trees also
before them. . ' .
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every
way in heaps, out of 'all manner of order, and Will Atkins let
about fty of them pass by him ; then seeing the rest come in
a very thick throng, he orders three of his men to re, having
loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece, about as
big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded
they knew not, but the consternation and surprise was inex-
pressible among the savages ; they were frightened to the last
degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed,
and others hurt, but see nobody that did it; when in the
middle of their fright Will Atkins and. his other three let y _
’ again among the thickest of them, and in less than a minute,
the rst three being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately as soon
as they had red, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of
the body been at hand to have poured in their shot continually,
the savages had been effectually routed ; for the terror that was
among them came principally from this, viz., that they were
killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see
nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, ‘
discovered the cheat. Some of the savages who were at a
distance, spying them, came upon, them' behind 5 and though
, Atkins and his men red at them also two or three times, and
killed about twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they
wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow English-
men with their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard,
- and one of the Indian slaves who came' with the women. This
slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing ve of them with his own hand, having no weapon but
one of the armed staves and a hatchet. 5
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two
other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and
the Spaniards, after ring three volleys upon them, retreated
' also 5 for their number was so great, and they were so desperate,
that though above fty'of them were killed, and more than as
' many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud 5 and it
was observed that their wounded men, who were not quite
disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought
like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and, the '
Englishman that were killed behind them 5 and the savages,
- when they came up to them, killed them over again in a
wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads with
their clubs and wooden swords like true savages. But nding
our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them, but drew
themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and
shouted twice in token of their victory 5 after which they had
the mortication to see several of their wounded men fall, dying -
with the mere loss of blood. _
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have had them ‘march and charge again all together at
once. But the Spaniard replied—“ Seignior Atkins, you see
how their wounded men-ght 5 let them alone till morning 5
all these wounded men will be stiff and sore with their wounds,
and faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the
fewer to engage.” The advice was good: but, Will Atkins
replied merrily, This is true, seignior, and so shall I too; and
‘ ‘ that is the reason I would go on while I am warm.” “ Well,
A -Desj§erate Battte; I 351 ~
Seignior Atkins,” says the Spaniard, “you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part 3 we will ght for you if you
cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till morning.” . So
they waited. ' " '
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the 4
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men,
and a great hurry and noise among them where they lay, they
afterwards reselved to fall upon them in the night, especially
if they could come to give them but one volley before they
were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do 3 for
one of the two Englishmen in whose quarter it was where the
ght began, led them round between the woods and the sea-side
westward, and then turning short south, they came so near
where the thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or
heard eight of them red in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them. In half-a-minute more eight others red
after them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity that
abundance were killed and wounded 3 and all this while they
were not able to see who hurt them, or which way to y. ‘
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to
fall in among them all together. They had in each body eight '
persons—that is to say, twenty-two men, and the two women,
who, by the way, fought desperately. They divided the re-
arms equally in each party, as well as the halberts and staves.
They would have had the women keep back, but they said they
were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from among the trees, and
came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as '
loud as they could. The savages stood all together, but were
in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together. They would have fought if they
had seen us 3 for as soon as we came near enough to be seen,
some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded,
though not dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but
running up to them, red among them three ways, and then
fell in with the butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed
staves, and hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a
word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, ying to
save their lives which way soever they could.
.\'
‘Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or
mortally wounded in the two ghts about'one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out of their wits,
scoured through the woods and over the hills with all the speed
that fear and nimble feet could help them to ; and as we did
not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together
to the sea-side where they landed, and where their canoes lay.
But their disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible
'storm of wind that evening from seaward, so that it was impos-
sible for them to go off—nay, the storm continuing all night,
when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them driVen
by the surge of the sea so high upon the'shore that it required
innite toil to get them off, and some Of them were even dashed
to pieces against the beach or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that
night ; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could,
they resolved to march to that“ part of the island where the
savages were ed, and see what posture they were in. This
necessarily ledv them over the place where the ght had been,
and where they found several of the poor creatures not quite
dead, and yet past recovering life : a sight disagreeable enough
to generous minds; for a truly great man, though obliged by
-' the law of battle to'destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his
misery. However, there was no need to give any orders in this
case; for their own savages, who were their servants, despatched
these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the more
miserable remains of the savages’ army lay, where there
appeared about a hundred still. Their posture was generally
sitting upon the ground, vwith their knees up towards their
mouth, and the head put between the two hands, leaning down
upon the knees. - '
When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be red, without
ball, to alarm them. This he did that by their countenance he
might know what to expect—viz., whether they were still in
heart to ght, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited
and discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly. This
stratagem took ; for as soon as the savages heard the rst gun,
and 'saw the ash of the second, they started up upon their feet
A Council of War.’ 353,
in the greatest consternation imaginable; and as our men
advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and
yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which our men did.
not understand, and had never heard before; and thus they
ran up the hills into the country. _ '
At rst our men had much rather the weather had been
calm, and they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then
consider that this might probably have been the occasion of
their coming again in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or,
at least, to come so many and so often as would quite desolate
the island and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the
best counsellor in this case. His advice was to take. the
advantage that offered, and step in between them and their
boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning
any more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this; and some were against it,
for fear of making the wretches y to the woods and live there
desperate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild ‘
beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have their
plantations continually ried, all their tame goats destroyed,
and, in short, reduced to a life of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a
hundred men than with a hundred nations ; that as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of '
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it. So they
went to work immediately with the boats, and getting some
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of
them on re, but they were so wet that they would not burn;
however,.the re so burned the upper part, that it soon made
them unt for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians
sawwhat they were about, some of them came running out of
the woods, and coming ,as near as they could to our men,
kneeled down and cried, “ Oa, 0a, waramoka !” and some other
words of their language, which none of the others understood
anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and strange
noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have their'
boats, spared, and that they would be gone and never come
there again. ' But our men were now satised that they had no
' 2 A
\
Way to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectu-
ally to prevent any of these people from ever going home again,
depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them got'
back into their country to tell the story, the colony was undone 5
so that, letting them know that they should not have any
mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and destroyed every
one that the storm had not destroyed before; at the sight of 4
which the saVages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which
our people heard plain enough, after which they ran about the
island'like distracted men, so that, in a word, our men did not
really know at rst what to do with them. Nor did the
Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that while they
made those people thus desperate, they ought to have kept
good guard at the same time upon their plantations 5 for though,
it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians
did not nd out their main retreat—I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley—yet they found out my
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the
' fences and planting about it 5 trod all the corn under foot, tore
up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did
our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one
farthing’s worth of service.
Though our men were able to ght them upon all occasions,
yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them
' up and down 5 for as they were too nimble of foot for our men
when they found them single, so our men durst not go abroad
single, for fear of being surrounded'with their numbers. The
best was, they had no weapons 5 for though they had bows,
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any, nor
had they any edged-tool or weapon among them.
' The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great,
and indeed deplorable: but at the same time our men were
also brought to very bad circumstances by them; for though
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed,
and their harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which way to
turn themselves, they knew not. The only refuge they had
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave,
and some little corn which grew there, and the plantation of
the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who were
now reduced to two, one of them being killed by an arrow,
The~Savages Starving. ' 355
which struck him on the side of his head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more 3 and it was very remark-
able that this was the same barbarous fellow who cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to
have murdered the Spaniards. ‘
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time
than mine was at any time, after I rst discovered the grains
of barley and rice, and got into the manner of planting and
raising my corn and my tame cattle 3 for now they had, as I
may say, a hundred wolves upon the island, which would
devour everything they could come at, yet could very hardly
be come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the rst thing
they concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them
up to the farther part of the island, south-west, that if any
more savages came on shore they might not nd one another 3
then that they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as
many of them as they could come at, till they had reduced
their number; and if they could at last tame them and bring
them to anything, they would give them corn and teach them
how to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they so followed them, and so terried them
with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them red a gun
at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for
fear 3 and so dreadfully frightened they were that they kept
out of sight farther and farther, till at last, our men following
them, and almost every day killing and wounding some of
them, they kept up in the woods and hollow places so much,
that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food,
and many were afterWards found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, but merely starved to death.
\Vhen our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and
pity moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was
the most gentlemanly, generous-minded man that ever I met
with in my life 3 and he proposed, if possible, to take one of
them alive, and bring him to understand what they meant, so
far as to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them
and see if they might be brought to some conditions that might
be depended upon, to save their lives and do us no harm.
It was some while before any of them could be taken; but
being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised
and made a prisoner. He was sullen at rst, and would neither
eat nor drink; but nding himself kindly used, and victuals
given him, and no violence offered him, he at last grew tract-
able, and came to himself. They brought old Friday to him,
who talked often with him, and told him how kind the others
would be to them all ;. that they Would not only save their
lives, but give them part of the island to live in, provided they
would give satisfaction that they would keep in their own
bounds, and not come beyond'it to injure or prejudice others;
and that they should have corn given them to plant and make
it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence: and old Friday bade the fellow go and
talk with the rest of his countrymen, and see what they said
to it, assuring them that, if they did not agree immediately,
they should be all destroyed. _
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the
rst offer, and begged to have some food given them; upon
which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with
three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place where
they were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in
the sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to
the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their provisions
very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their
word that could be thought of; for except when they came to
beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their
bounds, and there they lived when I came to the island, and I
Went to see them. '
They had taught them both to plant cor-n, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives,
and they soon would have been a nation. They were conned
to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them,
and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the south-east
corner of the island. They had land enough, and it was very
good and fruitful; about a mile and a-half broad, and three or
four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I
made for \myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and
I Peace in the Island.~ ’ 357
three or four knives ; and there they liVed, the most subjected,
innocent creatures that ever were heard of. '
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with
respect to the savages till I came to revisit them, which was
about two years after. Not but that now and then some canoes
of savages came on shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts ;
but as they were of several nations, and perhaps had never
heard of those that came before, or the reason of it, they did
not make any search or inquiry after their countrymen; and
if they had, it would have been very hard to have found them
out. - " .
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that hap-
pened to them till my return, at least that was worth notice. '
The Indians or savages Were wonderfully civilised by them,
and they frequently went among them, but forbade, on pain of
death, any one of the Indians coming to them, because they
would not have their settlement betrayed again. One thing
was very remarkable—viz., that they taught the savages to
make wicker-work or baskets ; but they soon outdid their
masters, for they made abundance of most ingenious things in
wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages,
cupboards, &c., as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
and abundance of other things, being very ingenious at such
work when they were once put in the way of it. -
My coming was a particular relief to these people, because
we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-
axes, and all things of that kind which they could want. With
the help of these tools they were so very handy, that they came
at last to build up their huts or houses very handsomely, rad-
dling or working them up like basket-work all the way round ;
which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked
very odd, but was an exceedingly good fence, as well against
heat as against all sorts of vermin : and. our men. were so taken .
with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do the like
for them; so that when I came to see the two Englishmen’s
colonies, they looked at a distance as if they all lived like bees
in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very
industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, .he had made himself
such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen. It
was one hundred and tWenty .paces round the outside, as I_
measured by my steps 5 the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and. very
strong, standing about seven feet high. In the middle was
another not above twenty-two paces round, but built stronger,
being eight-square in its form; and in the eight corners stood
eight very strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces pinned together with wooden pins, from which he raised
a pyramid for the roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure
you, and joined together very well, though he had no nails and
only a few iron spikes, which he made himself too, out of the
old iron that I had left there 5 and indeed this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge of. He made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the re 5 he made himself charcoal for his
work 5 and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling
good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and
hinges. But to return to the house : after he had pitched the
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters
with basket-work, so rm, and thatched that over again so
‘ ingeniously with rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree.
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had
been tiled or slated. Indeed he owned that the savages made
the basket-work for him. The outer circuit was covered, as a
lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay
from the thirty-two angles to the top of the posts of the inner
house, being about twenty feet distant 5 so that there was a
space like a walk within the outer wicker-wall and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, but much fairer, and divided, into six apartments, so that
he had six rooms on a oor; and out of every one of these
there was a door, rst into the entry or coming into the main
tent, and another door into the space or walk that was round
it 5 so that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries
which the family had occasion for. These six spaces not taking
up the whole circumference, what other apartments the outer
circle had were thus ordered :—As soon as you were in at the
door of the outer circle, you had a short passage straight before
Dale/ting of Bas/eet-worh. 359
you to the door of the inner house 3 but on either side was a
wicker partition, and a door in it, by which you went rst into
a large room or storehouse, twenty feet wide, and about thirty
feet long, and through that into another not quite so long; so
that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which
were only to be come at through the apartments of the inner
tent, and served as closets or retiring-rooms to the respective


\
p "A, ..
"is THIS GREAT BEE-HIVE LIVED THE THREE FAMILIES."
chambers of the inner circle 3 and four large warehouses or
barns, or what you please to call them, which went in through
one another, two on either hand of the passage that led through
the outer door to the inner tent. _
Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in
the world, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less
so built. In this great bee-hive lived the three families, that
is to say, Will Atkins and his companion. The third was
killed, but his wife remained with three children, for she
was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the other
two were not at all backward to give the widow her full
share of everything—I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes,
&c., and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the
shore; so that they all lived well enough, though it was true
they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been
observed already. _ ,
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., that as for
religion, I do not know that there was anything of that kind
among them. They pretty often, indeed, put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method of
seamen, viz., swearing by His name. Nor were their poor
ignorant savage wives much the better for having been married
to Christians, as we must call them ; for as they knew very
little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of
_ entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to
talk anything to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement. which I can say the wives
had made from them Was, that they had taught them to speak
English pretty _well ; and all the children they had, which were
near twenty in all, were taught to. speak English too, from their
rst learning to speak, though they at rst spoke it in ,a very
broken manner like their mothers. There were none of these
children above six years old when I came thither, for it was
not much above seven years since they had fetched these ve
savage ladies over: but they had all been pretty fruitful, for
they had all children more or less; I think the cook’s mate’s
wife was big of her sixth child. And the mothers were all a
good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and
decent, helpful to one another; mighty observant and subject
to their masters—I cannot call them husbands; and wanted
nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian religion, and
to be legally married; both which were happily brought about
afterWards by my means, or at least in consequence of my ‘
coming among them.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and
pretty much of my ve runagate Englishmen, I must say'some-
_ thing of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family,
Conversation with a Spaniard. 361
and in whose story there are» some incidents also remarkable
enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their circum-
stances when they were among the savages. They told me
I readily that they had no instances to give of their application
or ingenuity in that country; that they were a poor, miserable,
dejected handful of people; that if means had been put into
their hands, yet they had so abandoned themselves to despair,
and so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes, that they
thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a grave and
very sensible man, told me he was convinced they were in the
wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give themselves
up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which
reason offered, as well for present support as for future deliver-
ance. He told me that grief was the most senseless, insigni-
cant passion in the world ; for that it regarded only things past,
which were generally iinpossible to be recalled or to be remedied,
but had no view to things to come, and had no share in anything
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the afiction
than proposed a remedy. And. upon this he repeated-a Spanish
proverb, which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words
that he spoke in, yet I remember ‘I made it into an English
proverb of my own, thus :—
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I
I had made in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he
called it; and how I had made a condition, which in its circum-
stances 'was- at rst much worse than theirs, a thousand times
more happy than theirs was, even now when they were all
together. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had
a greater presence of mind in their distress than any people
that ever he met with; that their unhappy nation and the
Portuguese were the worst men in the world to struggle with
misfortunes, for their rst step in danger, after the common
efforts were over, was always to despair, lie down' under it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
escape. I v
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly: that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of food or of present sustenance till they could provide
for it: that, it was true, I had this disadvantage and discomfort, I
that I was alone; but then the supplies I had providentially'
thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the ship
on shore, was such a help as would have encouraged any creature
in the world to have applied himself as I had done. “ Seignior,”
says the Spaniard, “had we poor Spaniards been in your case,
we should never have got half those things out of the ship, as
you 'did 5 nay,”'says he, “weshould never have found means
to have got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail 5 and how much less should we have done
if any of us had been alone !” Well, I desired him to abate
his compliment, and go on with the history of their coming on
shore, where they landed. He told me they unhappin landed
at a place where there were people without provisions 5 whereas,
had they had the common sense to put off to sea again, and
gone to another island a little farther, they had found provisions,
though without people 5 there being an island that way, as they
had been told, where there Were provisions, though no people 5
that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad bad frequently
been there, and had lled the island with goats and hogs at
several times, where they had bred in such multitudes, and
where turtle and sea-fowls were in such plenty, that they could
have been in no want of esh, though they had found no
bread 5 whereas here they were only sustained with a few roots
and herbs which they understood not, and which had no sub-
stance in them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly
enough, and who could treat them no better, unless they would
turn cannibals, and eat men’s esh, which was the great dainty
of their country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove to
civilise the savages they were with, and to teach them rational
customs in the ordinary way of living, but in vain 5 and how
they retorted it upon them as unjust, that they who came there
for assistance and support should attempt to set up for in-
structors of those that gave them bread; intimating, it seems,
that none should set up for the instructors of others but those
who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
Navrative of the Spaniards. 363v
driven to 3 how sometimes they were many ways without any
food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort
of savages that lived more indolent, and for that reason were
less supplied with the necessaries of life than they had reason
to believe others were in the same part of the world 3 and yet
they found that these savages were less ravenous and voracious
than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added,
they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom
and goodness the governing providence of God directs the
events of things in the world 3 which, they said, appeared in
their circumstances: for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they
had searched after a better place to live in, they had then been
out of the way of the relief that happened to them by my
means. ' . '
They then gave me an account how the savages whom they
lived among expected them to go out with them into their wars.
And it was true that, as they had rearms with them, had they
not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have
been serviceable not only to their friends, but have made them-
selves terrible both to friends and enemies 3 but being without
powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars, when
they came into the eld of battle they were in a worse condition
than the savages themselves, for they neither had bows nor
arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave them: so that
they could do nothing but stand still and be wounded with
arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy 3 and
then, indeed, the three halberts they had were of use to them 3
and they would often drive a whole little army before them
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles
of their muskets. But that, for all this, they were sometimes
surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger --from their
arroWs, till at last they found the way to make themselves large
targets of wood, which they covered with skins of wild beasts,
whose names they knew not 3 and these covered them from the
arrows of the savages: that, notwithstanding these, they were
sometimes in great danger, and ve of them were once knocked
down together with the clubs of the savages, which was the
time when one of them was taken prisoner—that is to say, the
Spaniard whom I had relieved, that at rst they thought he
had been killed. But when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have ventured their lives to have rescued
him. ‘ '
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the
rest of their company rescued them, and stood over them
ghting till they were come to themselves, all but him whom
they thought had been dead; and then they made their way
with their halberts and pieces, standing close together in a line,
through a body of above a thousand savages, beating down all
that came in their way, got the victory over their enemies, but
to their great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their
iend ; whom the other party, nding him alive, carried off
_ with some others, as I gave an account before. -
They described most affectionately how they were surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery,
whom they thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the
worst kind, viz., by wild men; and yet how more and more
they were surprised with the account he gave them of his
errand, and that there was a Christian in any place near, much
more one that was able, and had humanity enough, to contribute
to their deliverance. ,
They described how they were astonished at the sight of the
relief I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread—
things they had not seen since their coming to that miserable
place; how often they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent _
from heaven; and what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits
to tasteit, as also the other things I had sent for their supply.
And after all, they would have told me something of the joy -
they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry them
away to the person and place from Whence all‘ these new com-
forts came ; but they told me it was impossible to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbe-
"coming extravagances, they had no way to describe them but
by telling me that they bordered upon lunacy, having no way
to give vent to their passions suitable to the sense that was
. upon them: that in some it worked one way, and in some
another; and that some of them, through a surprise of joy,
would burst out into tears, others be stark mad, and others im-
a— .
Settling State A fairs. ’ 365_
mediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me, and
called to my mind Friday’s ecstasy when he. met his father,
and the poor people’s ecstasy when I took them up at sea after
their ship was on re; the joy of the mate of the ship when
he found himself delivered in the place where he expected to
perish; and my, own joy when, after twenty-eight years’ cap-
tivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own
country. All these things made me more sensible of the relation
of those poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
them, I must relate the heads of what I did for these people,
and the condition in which I left them. It was their opinion,
and mine' too, that they would be troubled no more with the
savages ; or that, if they were, they would be able to cut them
off, if they were twice as many as before ; so they had no con-
cern about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse With
the Spaniard, whom I call governor, about their stay in the.
island ;' for as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it
would not be just to carry off some and. leave others, who
perhaps would be unwilling to stay if their strength was
diminished. On the other hand, I told them I came to establish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them know.
that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them ;
that I had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defence ; and
that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular
necessary employments which they were bred to, being articers,
to assist them in those things in which at present they were to
seek. .
They were all together when I talked thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked
them one by one if they had entirely forgot and buried the
rst animosities that had been among them, and would shake
hands with one another, and engage in a strict friendship and
union of interest, that so there might be no more misunder-
standings and jealousies. . 9
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour,
said they had met with alictions enough to make them all
sober and. enemies enough to make them all friends ; that, for
WWW
g a
x
366 ' Rooz'nson Crusoe.
his part, he would live and die with them, and was so far from
designing anything against the Spaniards, that he owned they
had done nothing to him but what. his own mad humours
made necessary,'and what he would have done, and perhaps
much worSe, in their case 5 and that he would ask them pardon,
if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done
to them 5 and was very willing and desirous of living in terms
of entire friendship and union with them, and would do any-
thing that lay in his power to convince them of it : and as for
going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years. .
The Spaniards said they had indeed at rst disarmed and
excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill
conduct, as they had let me know 5 and they appealed to me
for the necessity they were under to do so; but that Will
Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great ght they
had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the general
interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was passed,
and thought. he merited as much to be trusted with arms and
supplied with necessaries as any of them 5 and that they had
testied their satisfaction in him by committing the command
to him, next to the governor himself. And as they had an
entire condence in him and all his countrymen, so they
acknowledged that they had merited that condence by all the
methods that honest men could merit to be valued and trusted;
and they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this
assurance, that. they would never have any interest separate
from one another. \
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine all together 5 and indeed we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship’s cook and his mate
to come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook’s mate
we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of
good beef and four pieces of pork out of the ship’s provisions,
with our punchbowl and materials to ll it 5 and, in particular,
gave them ten bottles Of French claret and ten bottles of
English beer—things that neither the Spaniards nor the
Englishmen had tasted for many years, and which it may be
supposed they were very glad of. The Spaniards added to our
~ m ' ' . r' _ ‘ I WWQFWJ‘ P rwwr'r" "-wv v—v'w-
~ _ a c
I
\
Distrihating the ' Stores. _ 367
feast ve whole kids, 'which the cooks roasted 3 and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the
seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as
we did with their salt meat from on board. ~
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, ‘
I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be
no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was
sufcient for them all 3 and desired that they might all take an
equal quantity of the goods that were for wearing—that is to
say, equal when made up. As, rst, I distributed linen suicient
to make every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniard’s
request afterwards made them up six. These were exceedingly
comfortable to them, having been what, as I may say, they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them. I
allotted the thin English stuffs which I mentioned before to
make every one a light coat, like a frock, which I judged ttest
for the heat of the season, cool and loose 3 and ordered that
whenever they decayed they should make more as they thought
t. The like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c. ‘
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon
the countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the care
I had taken of them, and how. well I had furnished them.
~ They told me I was a father to them 3 and that having such a
correspondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, it
would make them forget that they were left in a desolate place 3
and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place
without my consent.
I Then I presented to them the people I-had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters—all
of them most necessary people—but, above all, my general
articer, than whom they could not name anything that was
more useful to them. And the tailor, to show his concern for
them, went to work immediately, and with my leave made
them every one a shirt the rst thing he did 3 and, which was ,
'still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and stitch,
and use the needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands and for all the rest. ' a
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they
were, for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things,
and made clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But
to let them see how nature made articers at rst, I carried the
carpenters to see Will Atkins’ basket-house, as I called it ; and
they both owned they never saw an instance of such natural
ingenuity before, nor anything so regular and So handily built,
at least of its kind; and one of them, when he saw it, after
musing a good while, turning about to me, “ I am sure,” says
he, “that man has no need of us; you need do nothing but
give him tools.”
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no
harrows or plough; and to every separate place a pickaxe, a
crow, a broad axe, and a saw-always appointing that as often
as any were broken or worn out, they should be supplied with-
out grudging out of the general stores that I left behind.
. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and
all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without reserve, as
they required; for no man would care to take more than he
wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste or spoil them
on any account whatever ; and for the use of the smith, I left
two tons of unwrought iron for a supply. '
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was
such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at
them; for now they could march, as I used to do, with a
musket upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and were
, able to ght a thousand savages if they had but some little ad-
vantages of situation, which also they could not miss if they
had occasion. - .
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
‘ starved to death, and the maid also. She was a sober, well-
educated, religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensiver
that every one gave her a good word. She-had, indeed, an
unhappy life~ with us, there being no woman in the ship but
herself; but she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing
things so well ordered, and in so ne a way of thriving upon
my island, and considering that they had neither business nor
< acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long a
voyage—I say, considering all 'this, both of them came to me
and' desired I would give them leave toremain on the island,
and be entered among my family, as they called it. I agreed
A New Settlement. .369
to this readily, and they had a little plot of ground allotted to
them, where they had three tents or houses set up, surrounded
with a basket-work, pallisadoed like Atkins’, adjoining to ' his
plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had each
of them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent like a
great storehouse, to lay their goods in and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habitation
to the same place; and so the island was divided into three
colonies, and no more—viz., the Spaniards, with old Friday and
the rst servants, at my old habitation under the hill, which
was, in a word, the capital city, and. where they had so enlarged. -
and extended their works, as well under as on the outside of
the hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full at
large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, and so -
hid, I believe, in any part of the world ; for I verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and if
they had not known there was such a thing, and looked on
purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the trees
stood so thick 'and so close, and grew so fast matted one into
another, that nothing but cutting them down rst could dis-
cover the place, except the only twp narrow entrances where
they went in and out could be found, which was not very easy.
One of them was just down at the water-edge of the creek, and
it was afterwards above two hundred yards to the place ; and
the other was up the ladder at twice, as I have already described
it; and they had also a large wood, thickly planted, on the top
of the hill, containing above an acre, which grew apace, and
concealed the place from all discovery there, with only one
narrow place between two trees, not easily to be discovered, to
enter on that side. >
The only colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were
four families of Englishmen, I mean those, I had left there,
with their wives and children; three savages that were slaves,
the widow and the children of the Englishman that was killed,
the young man and the maid; and, by the way, we made _a
wife of her also before we went away. There were also the
two carpenters and the tailor, whom I had brought with me for
them; also the smith, who was a-very necessary man to them,
especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and. my
other man, whom I called J ack-of-all-trades, who was in him~
2 B
self as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow, and before I went
away we married him to the honest’ maid that came with the
youth in the-ship I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with
me out of the ship’s crew whom I took up at sea. It is true
this man was a Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to
some hereafter if I leave anything extraordinary upon record
of a man whom, before I begin, I must (to set him out in just
colours) represent in terms very much to his disadvantage in the
account of Protestants 5 as, rst, that he was a Papist 5 secondly,
a Popish priest 5 and, thirdly, a French Popish priest. But
justice demands of me to give him a due character 5 and I must
say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person 5
exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary in
almost everything he did. What then can any one say against
my being very sensible of the value of such a man, notwith-
standing his profession? though it may be my opinion, perhaps,
as well as the opinion of others who shall read this, that he
was mistaken. \ .
The rst hour that I began to converse with him after he
had agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to
delight exceedingly in his conversation 5 and he rst began
with me about religion in the most obligingmanner imaginable.
“ Sir,” says he, “ you have not only under God (and at that he
crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have admitted me
to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility
have taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity of
free conversation. ' Now, sir,” says he, “you see by my habit
what my profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours
is. I may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use
my utmost endeavours on all occasions to bring all the souls I
can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic
doctrine; but as I am here under your permission, and in your
family, I am bound' in justice to your kindness, as well as in
decency and good manners, to be under your government 5 and
therefore I shall not, without your leave, enter into any debate
on the points of religion in which we may not, agree, further
than you shall give me leave.”
v ' The Catholic Priest. 37/1, _
' I told him his carriage was so modest that I could. not but
acknowledge it; that it was true we were such people as they
call heretics, but that he was not the rst Catholic that I had
conversed with without falling into any inconveniences, or
carrying the question to any height in debate 3 that he should
not nd himself the worse used for being of a different opinion
from us, and if we did not converse without any dislike on
eitherside upon that score, it should be his fault, not ours.
He replied that he thought all our conversation might be
easily separated from disputes 3 that it was not his business to
cap principles with every man he discoursed with; and that he
rather desired me to converse with him as a gentleman than as
a religiouse : that if I would give him. leave at any time to
discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with
it, and that then he did not doubt but I would allow him also
to defend his own opinions as well as he could 3 but that,
without my leave, he would not break in upon me with any
such thing. He told me, further, that he would not cease to
do all that became him,'in his ofce as a priest, as well as a
private Christian, to procure the good of the ship and the safety
of all that was in her 3 and though, perhaps, we would not
join with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he
might-pray for us, which he would do upon all occasions. I In
this manner we conversed 3 and as he was of a most obliging, .
gentlemanlike behaviour, so he was, if I may be allowed to say 7
so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the
many extraordinary events (of it 3 of many adventures which
had befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad~in
the world 3 and particularly this was very remarkable—viz.,
that in the voyage he was now engaged he had the misfortune
to be ve times shipped and unshipped, and never to go tothe
place whither any of the ships he was in were at rst designed ! ,
That his rst intent was to have gone to Martinique, and that
he went on board a ship bound thither at St. Malo 3 but being
forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some
damage by running aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, ’
and was obliged, to unload her __cargo there :-that nding a
Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to
sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there
bound to Martinique, he went on board in order to sail to the
Madeiras ; but the master of the Portuguese ship being but an
indifferent mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they
drove to F ial, where, however, he happened to nd a very good
market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore resolved
not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May,
and go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this
exigence but to go with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage
as far as the Banks (so they call ,the place where they catch
the sh), where, meeting with a French ship bound from
France to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to
Martinique, to carry provisions, he thought he should have an
opportunity to complete his rst design; but when he came to
Quebec the master of the ship died, and the ship proceeded no
farther: so the next voyage he shipped himself for France, in
the ship that was burned when we took them up at sea, and
then shipped with us for the East Indies, as -I have already
said. Thus he had been disappointed in ve voyages, all, as I
may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion
to mention further of the same person.
But I shall not make digressions into other men’s stories,
which have no relation to my own. I return to what concerns
our affair in the island. He came to me one morning (for he
lodged among us all the while we were upon the island), and
it happened to be just when I was going to visit the English-
men’s colony at the farthest part of the island ; I say, he came
to me, and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he had
for two or three days desired an opportunity of some discourse
with me, which he hoped would not be displeasing to me,
because he thought it might ‘in some measure correspond with
my general design, which was the prosperity of my new colony,
and perhaps might put it, at least more than he yet thought it
I was, in the way of God’s blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse,
and turning a little short, “How, sir,” said I, “can it be said
that we are not in the way of God’s blessing, after such visible
assistances and wonderful deliverances as we have seen here,
and of which I have given you a large account?” “If you
had pleased, sir,” said he, with a world of modesty, and yet
great readiness, _“ to have heard me, you would have found no
Discourse on Religion. ‘ 373
room to have been displeased, much less to think so hard of
me that I should suggest that you have not had wonderful
assistances and deliverances ; and I hope, on your behalf, that
you are in the way of God’s blessing, and your design is
exceeding good, and will prosper. But, sir, though it were
more so than is even possible to you, yet there may be some
among you that are not equally right in their actions. And
you know that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan
in the camp removed God’s blessing from them, and turned His
hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not
concerned in the crime, were the objects of Divine vengeance,
and bore the weight of that punishment.” -
I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him his
inference was so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere,
and was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very
sorry I had interrupted him, and begged him to go on; and-in
the meantime, because it seemed that what we had both to say
might take up some time, I told him I was going to the English—
men’s plantations, and asked him to go with me, and we might
discourse of it by the way. He told me he would the more
willingly wait on me thither, because there partly the thing was
acted which he desired to speak to me about; so we walked
on, and I pressed him to be free and plain with me in what he
had to say. ' ‘
“Why, then, sir,” says he, “be pleased to give me leave to
lay down a few propositions as the foundation of what I have
to say, that we may not differ in the general principles, though
we may be of some differing opinions in the practice of par-
ticulars. First, sir, though we differ in some of the doctrinal
articles of religion—and it is very unhappy it is so, especially
in the case before us, as I shall show afterwards—yet there are
some general principles in which we both agree, viz., rst, that
there is a God, and that this God having given us some stated
general rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly and knowingly to offend Him, either by neglecting to
do what He has commanded, or by doing what he has expressly
forbidden. And let our different religions be what they will,
this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the
blessing of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous sinning
against His command ; and every good Christian will be
affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under his care
living in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is not
your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of -
such, that discharges me from being concerned for their souls.
and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that they should
live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as
possible, especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in
your circuit.”
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I
-_ granted all he had said, and thanked him that he would so far
concern himself for us 5 and‘begged he would explain the par-
ticulars of what he had observed, that, like Joshua, to take his
own parable, I might put away the accursed thing from us.
“Why, then, sir,” says he, “ I will take the liberty you give
me; and there are three things, which, if I am right, must
stand in the- way of God’s blessing upon your endeavours here,
and which I should rejoice for your sake and their own to see
removed. And, sir,” says he, ‘p‘ I promise myself that you will
fully agree with me in them all as- soon as I name them 5
especially because I, shall convince you that every one‘ of them
may with great ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be
remedied.” He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities,
but went on. “ First, sir,” says he, “ you have here four
Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages,
and have taken them as their wives, and have had many
children by them all, and yet are not married to them after
,any stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man require;
and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, no less than
adulterers, and living in .adultery. To this, sir,” says he, “‘I
know you will object that there was no clergyman or priest of
any kind or of any profession to perform the ceremony 5 nor
any pen and ink or paper to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what
the Spaniard governor has told you 5 I mean, of the agreement
that he obliged them to make when they took these women,
viz., that they should choose them out by consent, and keep
separately to them 5 which, by the way, is nothing of a -
, marriage, 'no agreement with the women as wives, but only an
agreement among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he
Laws of Marriage. 375
called it, being a Roman) consists not only in the mutual con-
sent of the parties to take one another as man and wife, but in
the formal and legal obligation that there is in the contract to
compel the man and woman at all times to own and acknow-
ledge each other 3 obliging the men to abstainfrom all other
women, to engage in no other contract while these subsist, and
on all occasions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them
and their children; and to oblige the women to the same or
like conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their side. Now, sir,”
says he, “ thesemen may, when they please, or when occasion
presents, abandon these women, ‘disown their children, leave
them to. perish, and take other women and marry them while
these are living.” And here he added, with some warmth,
“How, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty? and how
shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while
these men, who at present are your subjects, under your absolute
government and dominion, are allowed by you to live in open
adultery ’l”
I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more
with the convincing arguments he supported it with; for it was
certainly true that, though they had no clergymen upon the
spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses,
and conrmed by any token which they had all agreed to be
bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick between
them, engaging the men to own these women for their wives
upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their children, '
and the women to the same with their husbands, had been an
effectual lawful marriage in the sight of God 3 and it was a
great, neglect that itwas not done. But I thought to have got
off with my young priest by telling him that all that part was
done when I was not there 3 and that they had lived so many
years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was past
remedy 3 nothing could be done in it now.
“ Sir,” says he, “ asking your pardon for such freedom, you
are right in this, that, it being done in your absence, you could
not be charged with that part of the crime. But, I beseech
you, atter not yourself that you are not therefore under an
obligation to do your utmost now to put an end to it. How
can you think but that, let the time past lie on whom it will,
all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon you? because
it is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, and in
, nobody’s power but yours.” -
I was so dull still that I did not understand him right ; but
I imagined that by putting an end to it he meant that I should
part them, and not suffer them to live together any longer.
And I said to him I could not do that by any means, for that
would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed sur-
prised that I should so far mistake him. “ N o, sir,” says he,
“I do not mean that you should now separate them, but legally
and effectually marry them. . And as, sir, my way of marrying
them may 'not be easy to reconcile them to, though it will be
effectual, even by your own laws, so your way may be as well
before God, and as valid among men; I mean by a written
contract, signed by both man and woman, and by all the
witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe would decree
.to be valid.” _
I was amazed to see so much true piety and so much sincerity
of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to
his own party or church, and such true Warmth for preserving
the people that he had no knowledge of or relation to ; I say,
for preserving them from transgressing the laws of God—the
like of which I had indeed not met with anywhere. But
.recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written
contract, which I knew would stand too, I returned it back
upon him, and told him I granted all that he had said to be
just, and on his part very kind; that I would discourse with
the men upon the point now, when I came to them; and I
knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them
all, which I knew well enough would be granted to be as
authentic and valid in England as if they were married by one
of our own clergymen. What was afterwards done in this
matter I shall speak of by itself. '
I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint
Which he had to make, acknowledging that I was very much
his debtor for the rst, and thanked him heartily for it. He
told me he would use the same freedom and plainness in the
second, and hoped I would take it as well; and this Was, that,
notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as he called
them, had lived with these women almost seven years, had
_ my“ m we... “run... “Harv, . =2" 3% ~ ,
Want of Religious Instruction. 377’
taught them to speak English, and even to read it, and that
they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable understanding
and capable of instruction, yet they had not to this hour taught
them anything of the Christian religion, no, not so much as to
know that there was a God or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served, or that their own idolatry, and. wor-
shipping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. This,
he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would
certainly call them to account for, and. perhaps at last take the
work out of their hands. He spoke this very affectionately
and. warmly. “I am persuaded,” says he, “ had those men
lived in the savage country whence their wives .came', the
savages would have taken more pains to have brought them to
be idolators, and to worship the devil, than any of these men,
so far as I can see, have taken with them to teach them the
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir,” said he, “though I
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we should
be glad to see the devil’s servants, and the subjects of his .
kingdom, taught to know the general principles of the Christian
religion ; that they might, at least, hear of God, and of a
Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and. of a future state—things
which we all believe; they had at least been so much nearer
coming into the bosom of the true church than they are; now,
in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship.”
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced
him with an excess of passion. “How far,” said‘I to him,
“ have I been from understanding the most essential part of a
Christian, viz., to love the interest of the Christian Church, and
the good of other men’s souls! I scarce have known what
belongs to the being a Christian.” “ Oh, sir, do not say so,”
replied he; “this thing is not your fault.” “N 0,” says I;
“but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you ?” “ It is-
not too late yet,” said he; “be not too forward to‘ condemn
yourself.” “But what can be done now?” said I ; “ you see I
am going away.” “Will you give me leave,” said he, “ to talk
with these poor men about it?” “Yes, with all my heart,”
said I; “and I will oblige them to give heed to what you say
too.” “As to that,” said he, “we must leave them to the
mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist (them, en-
courage them. and instruct them; and if you will give me
leave, and God His blessing, I do not doubt but the poor
ignorant souls shall be brought home into the great circle of
Christianity, if not, into the particular faith we all embrace,
and that even while you stay here.” Upon this I said, “Ilshall
not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for
it.” What followed on this account I shall mention also again
in its place.
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to
blame. “Why, really,” says he, “it is of the same nature 5
and I will proceed, asking your leave, with the same plainness
as before. It is about your poor savages, who are, as I may
say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is, or
ought to be, received among all Christians, of what church or
pretended church soever—viz., that the Christian knowledge
ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all possible
occasions. It is on this principle that our Church sends
missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy,
even of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazardous
voyages, and the most dangerous residence among murderers
and barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God,
and to bring them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now,
sir, you have such an opportunity here to have six or seven-
and-thirty peor savages brought over from idolatry to the know-
ledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder how
you can pass such an occasion of doing good, which is really
worth the expense of a man’s whole life.”
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. >
I had here the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion
before me, let his particular principles be of what kind soever.
As for me, I had not so much as entertained a thought of this
in my heart before, and I believe should not have thought of
it 5 for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom,
had we had any work for them to do, we would have used as
such, or would have been glad to have transported them to any
other part of the'world 5 for our business was to get rid of
them, and we would all have been satised if they had been
'- sent to any country, so they had never seen their, own. I was
confounded at .his discourse, and knew not what answer 'to
make him. ~
He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder.
An Enthusiastie Missionary. 379
“Sir,” says he, “I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives
you any offence.” “N o, no,” says I, “'I am offended with
nobody but myself; but I am perfectly confounded, not only
to think that I should never take any notice of this before, but
with reecting what notice I am able to take of it now. You
know, sir,” said I, “what circumstances I am in. I am bound
to the East Indies in a ship ’freighted by merchants, and to
whom it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to. detain
their ship here, the men lying all this while at victuals and
wages on the owners’ accoimt. It is true, I agreed to be allowed
twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must pay £3 sterling
per diem demurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage above
eight days more; and I have been here thirteen days already;
so that I am perfectly unable to engage in this Work, unless I
would suffer myself to be left behind here again 3 in which
case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part of her
voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was left
in here at rst, and from which I have been so wonderfully
delivered.” He owned the case was very hard upon me as to
my voyage, but laid it home upon my conscience whether the
blessing of saving seven-and-thirty isouls was ,not worth my
venturing all I had in the world for? I was not so sensible of
that as he was. I returned upon him thus: “Why, sir, it is
a valuable thing, indeed, to be an instrument in God’s hand to
convert seven-and-thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ 3
but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work,
so that it seems so naturally to fall into the way of your pro-
fession, how is it that you do not rather offer yourself to under-
take it than press me to it 'l” ,
'Upon this he faced about just before me, as we walked along
and, putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow. “ I
most heartily thank God and you, sir,” says he, “for giving me
so evident a call to so blessed a work 3 and if you think your-
self discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I
will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the
hazards and difculties of such a broken, disappointed voyage
as I have met with, that I may be dropped at last into so
glorious a work.” ' ' a I ' ' ' .
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like re, his face glowed, and his
. ,2
colour came and went, as if he had been falling into ts ; in a
word, he was red with the joy of being embarked in such a
work. I paused a considerable while before I could tell what
to say to him, for I was really surprised to nd a man of such
sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordi-
nary rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any
profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it awhile,
I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and if he would .
. venture, on the single consideration of an attempt to convert
those poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for
perhaps his life, and at last might not know whether he should
be able to do them any good or not?
He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a
venture? “Pray, sir,” said he, “ what do you think I con-
sented to go in your ship to the East Indies for?” “Nay,”
said I, “that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians.” “Doubtless it was,” said he; “and do you think,
if I can convert these seven-and-thirty men to the faith of
Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never
be fetched off the island again ; nay, is it not innitely of more
worth to save, so many souls than my life is, or the life'of
twenty more _of the same profession? Yes, sir,” says he, “I
would give Christ and the Blessed Virgin thanks all my days
if I could be made the happy instrument of saving the souls of
those poor men, though I were never to get my foot off this
island, or see my native country any more. But since you will
honour me,” says he, “with putting me into this work, for
which I will pray for you all the days of my life, I have one
humble petition to you besides.” “What is that ?” said I.
“Why,” says he, “it is that you will leave your man Friday
with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; for
without some help I cannot speak to them, or they to me.”
I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I
could not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons.
He had been the companion of my travels: he was not only
faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree ; and
I had resolved to do something considerable for him if he out»
lived me, as it was probable he would. ‘ Then I knew that, as
I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, [it would quite
confound him to bring him to embrace another religion; and
The Reformation 'Begun. 381
he would _never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was a heretic, and would be damned; and. this might in
the end ruin the poor fellow’s principles, and so turn him back
again to his rst idolatry. However, a sudden thought relieved
me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say
that I was’willing to part with Friday on any account what- .
ever, though a work that to him was of more value than his
life, ought to be to me of much more value than the keeping
or parting with a servant. But, on the other hand, I was
persuaded that Friday would by no means agree to part with
me, and I could not force him to it without his consent,
without manifest injustice ; because I had promised and
engaged him to me that he would never leave me unless I put
him away. . '
He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one
word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove
this diiculty, I told him Friday’s father had learned Spanish,
which I found he also understood, and he should serve him as
an interpreter. So he was much better satised, and nothing
could persuade him but he would stay and endeavour to con-
vert them; but Providence gave another very happy turn to
all this. '
I come back now to the rst part of his objections. When
we came to the Englishmen, I sent. for them all together, and
after some account givenv them of what I had done for them—-
viz., what necessary things I had provided for them, and how
they were distributed, which they were very sensible of, and
very thankful for—I began to talk to them of' the scandalous
life they led, and gave them a full account of the notice the
clergyman had already taken of it ; and arguing how unchristian
and irreligious a life it was, I rst asked them if they were
married men or bachelors? They soon explained their con-
dition to me, and. showed that two of them were widowers, and
the other three were single men or bachelors. I asked them
with what consciences they could take these women, and call
them their wives, and. have so many children by them, and not
be lawfully married to them?
‘ They 'all gave me the answer I. expected—viz., that there
was nobody to marry them ; that they agreed before the governor
to keep them as their wives, and to maintain them and own
them as their wives; and they thought, as things stood with
them, they were as legally married as. if they had been married
by a parson, and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of
God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as their
' wives 5 but that, the laws of men being otherwise, they might.
pretend they were not married, and so desert the poor women
and children hereafter 5 and that their wives being poor desolate
women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help
_ themselves. I therefore told them that unless I was assured
of their honest intent I could do nothing for them, but would
take care that what I did should be for the women and children
' without them; and that, unless- they would give me some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think
it was convenient they should continue together as man and
wife, for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them if they went ~
on thus. - ~
All this went on as I expected, and they told me, especially
Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives aswell as if they had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them on any account
whatever; and they did verily believe that their wives were as
virtuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of their skill,
as much for them and for their children as any women could
possibly do, and they would not part with them on any
account. And Will Atkins, for his own particular, added, that
if any man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and make him captain of the best man-of-war in '
the navy, he would not go with him if he might not carry his
wife and children with him; and if there was a clergyman in
the'ship, he would be married to her now with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it. The priest was not with
me at that moment, but was not far off 5 so to try him further,
I told him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere I
would. have him married the next morning, and bade him
consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as for himself,
he need not consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it,
and was glad I had a minister with me 5 and he believed they
A ll agree to he Married. 383 ‘
would .be all willing also. I then told him that my friend the
minister was a Frenchman, and could not- speak English, but
that I would act the clerk between them. He never so much
as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was \
indeed what I was afraid of. So we parted 3 I went back to
my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his com-
panions. I desired the Frenchman not to say anything to
them till the business was thoroughly ripe, and I told him what
answer the men had given me.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came out to me
and told me they had been considering what I had said : that
they were glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and
they were very willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and
to be formally married as soon as I pleased 3 for they were far
from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest when they. chose them. So
I appointed them to meet me the next morning, and that in
the meantime they should let their wives know the meaning
of the-marriage law 3 and that it was not only to prevent any
scandal, but also to oblige them that they should not forsake
them, whatever might happen. - . '
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the
thing, and were very well satised with it, as indeed they had
reason to be. So they failed not to attend altogether at my
apartment the next morning, where I brought out my clergy-
man 3 and though he had not on a minister’s gown, after the .
manner of England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner
of France, yet having a black vest something like a cassock,
with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike a minister 3
and as for his language, I was his interpreter. But the serious-
ness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples he made of
marrying the women because they were not baptised and
professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his
person 3 and there was no need after that to inquire whether
he was a clergyman or no. Indeed I Was afraid his scruples
would have been carried so far 'as that he would not have
married them'at all 3 nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say
to him, .he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and
at last refused absolutely to marry them, unless ,he had rst
talked with the men and the women too 3 and though at rst I -
was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with. a
good will, perceiving the sincerity of his-design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had
acquainted him With their circumstances, and with the present
design: that he was very willing to perform that part of his
> function, and marry them as I had desired; but that before
he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk with them. He
told them, that in the sight of all indifferent men, and in the
sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this while in
open adultery ; and that it was true that nothing but the con-
senting to marry, or effectually separating them from one
another, could now put an end to it; but there was a diiculty
in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony,
which he was not fully satised about—viz., that of marrying
one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolator, and a
heathen, one that is not baptised ; and yet that he did not see
that there was time left to endeavour to persuade the women
to be baptised, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they
had, he ~doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they
could not be baptised. He told them he doubted they were
but indifferent Christians themselves ; that they had but little
knowledge of God or of His ways, and therefore he could not
eXpect that they had said much to their wives on that head
yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their
endeavours with their wives to persuade them to become
Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them in
the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry
them; for he would have no hand in joining Christians with
savages, nor was it consistent with the principles of the Chris-
tian religion, and was indeed expressly forbidden in God’s
law. ' -
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very
faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I
could; only sometimes adding something of my own, to con-
vince them how just it was, and how I was of his mind ; and
I always very faithfully distinguished between what I said for
myself and what were the clergyman’s words. They told me
it was very true what the gentleman had said, that they were
but very indifferent Christians themselves, and that they never
Will A thins Instructed. _ ‘ 385
talked to their wives about religion. “Lord, sir,” says Will
Atkins, “ how should we teach them about religion? Why,
_we know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir,” said he, “ should
we talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
it would make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believed
ourselves? And if we should tell them that we believe all the
things we speak of to them, such as of good people going to ~
heaven, and wicked people going to the devil, they would ask
us where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and _
are such wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why, sir, ’tis
enough to give them a surfeit of religion at rst hearing; folks
must have some religion themselves before they pretend to teach
other people.” “Will Atkins,” said I to him, “though I am
afraid that what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you
not tell your wife she is in the wrong; that there is a God and
a religion better than her own; that her gods are'idols, that
can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that.
made all things, and. that can destroy all that He has made;
that He rewards the good arid punishes the bad; and that we
are to be judged by Him at last for all we do here? You are
not so ignorant but even nature itself will teach you that all
this is true ; and I am satised you know it all to be true, and
believe it yourself.” “ That is true, sir,” said Atkins; “but
with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this, when
she will tell me, immediately it cannot be true?” “Not true I”
said I; “ what do you mean by that?” “Why, sir,” said he,
“she will tell me it cannot be true that this God I shall tell
her of can be just, or can punish or reward, sinceI am not
punished and sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked
creature as she _knows I have been, even to her and to every-
body else ; and that I should be suffered to live, that have been
always acting contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to
what I ought to have done.” “Why, truly, Atkins,” said I,
“ I am afraid thou speakest too much truth ;” and with that I
let the clergyman know what Atkins had said, for he was
impatient to know. “ Oh,” said the priest, “tell him there is
one thing will make him the best minister in the world to his
wife, and that is repentance; for none can teach repentance
like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and then
he will be so much the better qualied to instruct his wife.
2 c » ‘ . . .
‘ He will then be able to tell her that there is not only a God,
and that He is the just rewarder of good and evil, but that He
is a merciful being, and with innite goodness and longT ‘
suffering forbears to punish those that offend, waiting to be
gracious, and Willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that
he should return and live: that oftentimes He suffers wicked
men to go on a long time, and even reserves damnation to the
general day of retribution: that it is a clear evidence of God,
and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their
reward, nor wicked men their punishment, until they .come into
another world 5 and this will lead him to teach his wife the
doctrine of the resurrection and of the last judgment. Let him
but repent himself, he will be an excellent preacher of repent-
ance to his wife.” - ‘
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the
while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more than
ordinarily affected with it ; when, being eager, and hardly
' suffering me to make an end, “I know all this, master,” says
he, “ and a great deal more ; but I have not the impudence to
‘ talk thus to my wife, when God and my own conscience know,
and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against me, that
I have lived as if I had never heard of a God or future state,
or anything about it. And to talk of my repenting—alas l”
(and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and I could see that the
tears stood in his eyes) “ ’tis past all that with me.” “ Past it,
Atkins?” said I; “what dost thou mean by that 'l” “ I know
well enough what I mean,” says he ; “ I mean 'tis too late, and
that is too true.”
I told my clergyman word for word what he said. The poor
zealous priest—I must call him so 3 for, be his opinion what it
will, he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of
other men’s souls, and it would be hard to think he had not
the like for his own—I say, this zealous affectionate man could
not refrain from tears; but, recovering himself, he said to me,
“Ask him but one question—Is he easy that it is too late, or
is he troubled and wishes it were not so ’l” I put the question
fairly to Atkins, and he answered with a great deal of passion,
“How could any man be easy in .a condition that must certainly
end in eternal destruction ’l—that he was far from being easy,
but that, ,on the contrary, he believed it would one time or
Preaehing the Gospel. 387
other ruin him.” “What do you mean by that '1” said I.
“Why,” he said, “he believed he should onetime or other out
his throat, to put an end to the terror of it.”
The clergyman shook his head with a great concern in his
face when I told him all this. But turning quick to me upon
it, says he, “ If that be his case, you may assure him it is not
too late 3 Christ will give him repentance. But pray,” says he,
“explain this to him, that as no man is saved but by Christ,
and the merits of His passion procuring Divine mercy for him,
how can it be too late for any man to receive mercy'l Does
he think he is able to sin beyond the power or reach of Divine
mercy? Pray tell him there may be a time when provoked
mercy will'no longer strive, and when God will refuse to hear,
but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and we that
are Christ’s servants are commanded to preach mercy at all
times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely
repent; so that it is never too late to repent.”
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness 3'
but it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest, for
he said to me he would go and have some talk with his wife 3
so he went out a while, and we talked to the rest. I perceived
they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion, much
as I was when I went rambling away from my father, and yet
there were none of them backward to hear what had been said:
and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with
their wives about it, and do their endeavours to persuade them
to turn Christians. ' .
The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer
they gave, but said nothing a good while 3 but at last, shaking
his head, “We that are Christ’s servants,” says he, “ can go no
further than to exhort and instruct; and when men comply,
submit to the reproof, and promise what we ask, ’tis all we can
do: we are bound to accept their good'words. But, believe
me, sir,” said he, “whatever you mayhave known of the life
of that man you call Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere '
convert among them. I take that man to be a _true penitent.
I will not despair of the rest 3 but that man is apparently struck
with the sense of his past life, and I doubt not, when he comes
to talk of religion to his wife, he will talk himself effectually
into it 3 for attempting to teach others is sometimes the best
,3 »-v |;W:w“"’ , d
Way of teaching ourselves. I knew a man who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked
. and proigate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough.
reformation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. If that
poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ
to his wife, myilife for it he talks himself into a thorough
convert—emakes himself a penitent. And who knows what
may follow ! ” .-
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above,
to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity,
he married the other three couples; but Will Atkins and his
wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman, waiting '
awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone ; and
turning to me, says he, “I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of
your labyrinth here, and look. I dare say we shall nd this
peer man somewhere or other talking seriously to his wife, and _
teaching her already something of religion.” I began to be of
the same mind; so we went out together, and I carried him a
way which none knew but myself, and where the trees were so
thick set thatv it'was not easy to see through the thicket of
leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out : when, coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny savage
wife sitting under, the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse.
I stopped short till my clergyman came up tome, and then,
having showed him where they were, we stood and looked very
steadily at them a good while. We observed him very earnest
with her, pointing up to‘the sun, and to every quarter of the
‘ heavens, then down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to
himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. “Now,” says
my clergyman, “you see my words are made good; the man
preaches to her.‘ Mark him now; he is telling her that our
' God has made him and -her, and the heavens, the earth, the
', down on his knees, and lift up both his hands.
sea, the woods, the trees, &c.” “ I believe he is,” said I. Im-
mediately we perceived Will Atkins start up' upon his feet, fall
We supposed
he said something, but we could not hear him; it was too far
for that. He did 'not continue kneeling half-a-minute, but
comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks to her again.
We perceived then the woman very attentive ; but whether
she said anything or no, we could not tell. While the poor ‘
hVi/l A thins and his Wife. 339
fellow was upon his knees, I could see the tears run plentifully
down my clergyman’s cheeks, and I could hardly forbear my-
self; but it was a great afiction to us both that we were not
near enough to hear anything that passed between them.
\Vell, however, we could come no nearer for fear of disturbing
them; so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still con—
versation, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of
voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and


' “WE OBSERVED HIM VERY EARNEST WITH HER.”
talked again earnestly to her ; and two or three times we could
see him embrace her most passionately. Another time we saw
him‘take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then
kiss her again with a kind of transport very unusual; and after
several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again,
and lend her his _hand to help her up, when immediately,
leading her by the hand a step or two, they both kneeled down
together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, “St.
Paul, St. Paul! behold, he prayeth !” I was afraid Atkins
5""
.
390 Robinson C fusae.
would hear him, therefore I entreated him to withhold himself
awhile, that we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I
must confess, was the most a'ecting,'and yet the most agreeable,
that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with himself, and
contained himself for awhile, but was in such raptures of joy'
to think that the poor heathen woman was become a Christian
' that he was not able to contain himself. He wept several tinies,
vthen throwing up his hands and crossing his breast, said over -
several things ejaculatory, and by the way Of giving God thanks
for so miraculous a testimony of ’the success of our endeavours.
Some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear, others audibly ; '
some in Latin, some in French; then two or three times the
tears of joy would interrupt him that he could not speak at all.
But I begged'that he would 'compose himself, and let us more
narrowly and fully observe what was before us, which he did
for a_ time, the scene not being, near ended yet ,' for after the
poor'ma'n and his wife were risen again from their knees, we
observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we observed
by her motion that she was greatly affected with what 'he said,
by her frequently lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her
breast, and such other postures as' usually express the greatest
seriousness and attention. This continued about half-a-quarter
of an hour,'\and then they walked away too,‘ so that we could
see no more 'of‘ them in that situation. I took this interval to
talk with my*clergyman; and rst I told him I was glad to see
the particulars we had both been witnesses to ; that though I
was hard enoughof belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife,
however ignorant they might both be 3 and I hoped such a
beginning would yet have a more happy end. “ And who
knows,” said I, "‘ but these two may in time, by instruction and
example, work upon some of the others “I” “Some of them !”
said he, turning quick upon me,- > “ ay, upon all of them.
Depend upon it, if, those two savagesé-for he has been but
little better, as you relate it——should embrace Jesus Christ, they
will never leave till they work .upon all the rest; for true
religion is naturally communicative, and he that is Once made
a Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can help
it.” I owned it a most Christian principle to think so, and a.
testimony'of a true zeal, as well as a generous heart in him.
_ .. - _>- ,1- Fa-wr- ~ 1;" "‘I’T'““7" ‘ "F’UZ'F/{SW'W -
. x, .' wrap-Ya _ W‘s“! ’ t ' H W
‘ .
True Catholic Religion. _391
“But, my friend,” said I, “ will you give me leave to start one
difculty here? I cannot tell how to object the least thing '
against that affectionate concern which you show for the
turning the poor people from their paganism to the Christian
religion 3 but how does this comfort you, while these people
are in your account out of the pale of the Catholic 'Church,
without which you believe there is no salvation 3 so that you
esteem these but heretics, and, for other reasons, as effectually
lost as the pagans themselves.” _ - .
To this he answered, with abundance of candour and '
Christian charity, thus: “Sir, I am a- Catholic of the Roman
Church, and a priest of the Order of St. Benedict, and I em-
brace all the principles of the Roman faith 3 but yet, if you
will believe me, and that I do not speak in complinmnt to you,
or in respect to my circumstances and your civilities 3 I say,
nevertheless, I do not look upon you who- call yourselves Re-
formed without some charity. I dare not say, though I know it
is our opinion in general 3 I say, I dare not say that you cannot
be saved. I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far
as to think that He cannot receive you intothe bosom of His
Church in a manner to us unperceivable, and I hope you have .
the same charity for us. I pray daily for your being all restored,
to Christ’s Church, by whatsoever methods He, whois all-wise,“
is pleased to direct. In the meantime, surely you will allOw it
to consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far betWeen a .
Protestant and a pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ,
though in a way which I do not think is according to the: true
faith, and a savage or a barbarian, that knows, no God, no
Christ, no Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale .of the
Catholic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it
than those that know nothing of God or of His Church. And
I rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man, whom'you say
has been a proigate and also a murderer, kneel down and pray
to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully en-
lightened, believing that God, from whom every such work
proceeds, will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to the
, further knowledge of that truth in His own time 3 and if I God
shall inuence this poor man to convert and instruct the .poor
ignorant savage his wife, I can never believe that he shall be
cast away himself. And have I not reason then to rejoice the
nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though .
they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the
Catholic Church just in the time when I'may desire it, leaving
it to the goodness of Christ to perfect His work in His own
' time and in His own way? Certainly I would rejoice if all the
savages in America were brought like this poor woman to pray
to God, though they were all to be Protestants at rst, rather
than they should continue pagans and heathens, rmly believing
that He that had bestowed the rst light on them would further
illuminate them with a beam of His heavenly grace, and bring
them into the pale of His Church when He should see good.”
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly
pious Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his
reasoning ; and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if
such a temper was universal, we might be all Catholic Christians,
Whatever church or particular profession we joined to, or joined
, in 3 that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into
right principles. And in a word, as he-thought that the like
charity would make us all Catholics, so I told him I believed,
had all the members of his church the like moderation, they
would soon be all Protestants. And there we left that part,
‘ for we never disputed at all. '
However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by
the hand, “My friend,” says I, “I wish all the clergy of the
Romish Church were blessed with such moderation, and had
an equal share of your charity. I am entirely of your opinion 3
but I must tell you that if you should preach such doctrine in
Spain or Italy, they would put you into the Inquisition.” “It
may be so,” said he ; “I know not What they might do in
Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the better
Christians for that severity, for I am sure there is no heresy in
too much charity.” / ‘
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife Were gone, our business
there was over, so we went back our own way ; and when we
came back, we found them waiting to be called in. Observing
this, Iasked my clergyman if we should discover to him that
we had seen him under the bush' or no ; and it was his opinion
we should not, but that we should talk to him rst, and hear
what he would say to us. So we called him in alone, nobody
being in the place but ourselves, and I began With him thus :—
R. 0. Will Atkins, prithee, what education had you? What
was your father? _ ‘
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father
was a clergyman.
R. G. What education did he give you? .
W. A. He would have taught me well, sir; but I despised
all education, instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was.
R. 0. It’s true Solomon says, “He that despises reproof is
brutish.” .
W. A. Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed—I murdered my father.
For God’s sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir—I murdered
my poor father. _
Pr. Ha! 'a murderer! '
Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he
spoke it) and looked pale. It seems he believed that Will had
really killed his father.
R. 0'. No, no, sir; 'I do not understand him so.-—Will Atkins,
explain yourself. You did not kill your father, did you, with
your own hand? . ‘ _ _
W. A. N o, sir; I did not cut his throat, but I cutthe thread
of his comforts, and shortened his days. I broke his heart by
the most ungrateful, unnatural return for the most tender and
affectionate treatment that ever father gave or child could
receive. . '
R. G. Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort
this confession; I pray God give you repentance for it, and.
forgive you that and all your other sins; but I asked you
because I see that, though you have not much learning, yet you
are not so ignorant as some are in things that are good; that
you have known more of religion a great deal than you have
practised.
W. A. Though you, sir, did. not extort the confession that I
made about my father, conscience did; and whenever we come
to look back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent
parents are certainly the rst that touch us. The wounds they
make lie the deepest, and the weight they leave will lie heaviest
upon the mind of all the sins we can commit. '
R. 0’. You talk too feelineg and sensibly for me, Atkins.
I cannot hear it. ‘
W. A. You bear it, master ! I dare say you know nothing of .it.
R. 0'. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I may say
every tree in this island, iswitness to the anguish of my soul
for my ingratitude and base usage of a good, tender father; a
~ father much like yours, by your description. And I murdered
my father as well as you, Will Atkins ,' but I think, for all
that, my repentance is short of yours, too, by a great deal. .
I would have said more if I could have restrained my pas-
sions 3 but I thought this poor man’s repentance was so much.
sincerer than mine, that I was going to leave off the discourse
and retire ,- for I was surprised with what he said, and thought
that, instead of my going about to teach and instruct him, the
man was a teacher and instructor to me in a most surprising
and unexpected manner. ‘
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly
affected, and said to me, “Did I not say, sir, that when this
man was converted he would preach to us all? I tell you, sir,
if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no need
of me ,' he will make Christians of all in the island.” But
having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with
Will Atkins. '
R. 0'. But, Will, how comes the sense of this matter to touch
you just now 2” ' a
W. A: Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck
a dart through my very soul. I have been talking about God
and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me', to make
a Christian of her 3 and she has preached such a sermon to me
as I shall never forget while I live.
R. 0. N o, no, it is not your wife has preached to you ; but
when you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience
has ung them back upon you.
W A. Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be resisted.
R. 0. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and
your wife, for I know something of it already.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it.
I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it.
But let her have said what she will, and though I cannot give
you an account of it, this I can tell you, that I have 1:680le
to amend and reform my life. '
R. 0. But tell us some of it. How did you begin, Will?
For this has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She
has preached a sermon indeed, if she has wrought this upon
on.
'y W. A. Why, I rst told her the nature of our laws about
marriage, and what the reasons were that men and women
were obliged to enter into such contracts as it was neither in
the power of one nor other to break 3 that otherwise order and
justice could not be maintained, and men would run from their
wives and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one
another, and neither families be kept entire nor inheritances
settled by legal descent. ‘ ‘
R. C’. You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her
understand what you meant by inheritance and families?
They know no such things among the savages, but marry any-
how, without regard to relation, consanguinity, or family:
brother and sister—nay, as I have been told, even the father
' and the daughter, and the son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed; and my wife
assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it. Perhaps,
for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are 3
' but she tells me they never touch one another in the near
relations you speak of.
R. (7. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was much
better than in her country.
R. 0. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay 3 there began all our dialogue. I asked her
if she would be married to me our way. She asked me what
way that was. I told her marriage was appointed by God.
And here we had a strange talk together, indeed, as ever man
and wife had, I believe.
N. B. This dialogue betweenWill Atkins and his wife, as I took
down in writing just after he had told it me, was as follows :—
Wife. Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in ‘
your country?
W. A. Yes, my dear; God is in every country. ’
Wife. N 0 you God in my country. _ My country have the
great old Benamuckee god. -
W. A. Child, I am very unt to show you who God is.
God is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea,
and all that in them is.
Wife. N o makee de earth. N 0 you God make all earth 3 no
make my country. ‘
Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wife. N o laugh. Why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.
He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious
than he at rst. '
W. 'A. That’s true indeed. I will not laugh any more, my
dear. ‘
Wife. Why you say you God make all? '
W'. A. Yes, child ; our God made the whole world, and you,
and me, and all things. For He is the only true God ; and-
there is no God but Him. He lives for ever 'in heaven.
Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That’s true indeed. But I have been a wicked
' wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any-
thing before, but have lived without God in the world myself.
Wife. What! have you de great God in you country, you
no' know Him? N0 say to Him? N 0 do good thing for.
Him? That no possible I
W. A.“ It is too true ; though, for all that, we live as if there
was no God in heaven, or that He had no power on earth. ‘
Wife. But why God let you do so? Why He no makee you
good live?
W. A. It is all our own fault. .
Wife. But you say me He is great, much great, have much
great power 3 can makee kill when He will. Why He no
makee kill when you no serve Him? N 0- say 0 to Him? N o
be good mans. . ~
W. A. That is true.v He might strike me dead; and I
ought to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is
true. But God is merciful, and does not deal with us as we
deserve.
Wife. But then do not you tell God tankee for that too?
_ W. A. N 0, indeed; I have not thanked God for His mercy,
any more than I have feared God for His power.
Wife. Then you God no God. Me no think believe He be
such one, great much power strong. N 0 makee kill you though
i you makee Him much angry.
W. A. \Vhat ! will my wicked life hinder you from believ-
A thins Instructs his Wife. ' 397
ing in God? What a dreadful creature am I! and what a sad
truth is it, that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the
conversion of heathens!
Wife. How me tink you have great much God up there [she
points up to.heaven], and yet no do well, no do good thing?
Can He tell? Sure He no tell what you do? _
W. A. Yes, yes; He knows and sees all things. He hears
us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think, though we
do not speak. - .
Wife. What! He no hear you swear, curse, speak the great
damn? .
W. A. Yes, yes, He hears it all. _ '
Wife. Where he then the muchee great poWer strong?
W. A. He is merciful; tha'tis all we can say for it. And
this proves Him to be the true God. He is God, and not man;
and therefore we are not consumed.
Here Will Atkins told us he was struck' with horror to
think how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees, and
hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that
we do ; and. yet that he had dared to do all the vile things he
had done. v
Wife. Merciful! What you call that? '
W. A. He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and
spares us.
Wife. So then He never makee kill, never angry when you .
do wicked? Then He no good Himself, or no great able?
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear; He is innitely good and
innitely great, and able to punish too ; and sometimes, to
show His justice and vengeance, He lets y His anger to destroy
sinners and make examples. Many are cut off in their sins.
_ Wife. But no make kill you yet? Then He tell you, maybe,
that He no make you kill, so you. make do bargain with Him,
you do bad thing He no be angry at you when He be angry at
other mans. . '
W. A. N o, indeed; my sins are all presumptions upon His
goodness, and He wOuld be innitely just if He destroyed me
as He has done other men.
Wife. Well! and yet no kill, no makee you dead? What ‘
you say to Him for that? You no tell Him tankee for all that
too ? '
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that’s true.
Wife. Why He no makee you much good better? _You say
He makee you. r ' '
W. A. He made me, as He made all the world. It is I
have deformed myself and abused His goodness, and made
myself an abominable wretch. .
Wife. I wish you makee God know me. I_no makee Him
angry ; I no do bad wicked thing.
Here Will Atkins said his heart sank within him to hear a
poor untaught creature desire to be taught to know God, and
he such a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her
about God but what' the reproach of his own carriage would
make most irrational to her to behave ; nay, that already she had
_told him that, she could not believe in God, because he that
was so wicked was not destroyed. .
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach you to
know God, not God to know you ; for He knows you already,
and every thought in your heart. - 1
Wife. Why, then, He know what I say to you now. He
know me wish to know Him. How shall me know who makee
me ‘1
A. Poor creature! He must teach thee; I cannot teach
thee. I will pray to Him to teach thee to know him, and to
. forgive me that am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him
to make her know God, and her wishing to know Him, that he
said he fell down on his knees before her, and prayed to'God
to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledge, of Jesus
Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the
unworthy instrument of instructing her in the principles of
'religion 5 after which he sat down by her again, and their
4. "idialogue went on. This was the time when we saw him kneel
'~"down and lift up his hands. . t
_ Wife. What you put down the~knee for? What you hold
up the hand for? . What you say? Who you speak to“!
What is all that? . -
W. A. My dear, I how my knee in token of my submission
' to Him that made me. I said O to him, as you call it, and as .
you say your old men do to their idol Benamuckee ; that is, I
prayed to Him.
Wife. What you say 0' to Him for? -
W. A. I prayed to Him to open your eyes and your under-
standing, that you may know Him and be accepted by Him.
Wife. Can He do that too? -
W. A. Yes, He can 3 He can do all things.
Wife. But now He hear what you say?
W.‘A. _Yes 3 He has 'bid us pray to Him, and promised to
hear us. _
Wife. Bid you pray? When He bid you? How He bid
you? What ! you hear Him speak? '
W. A. N _0, we do not hear Him speak 3 but He has revealed
Himself many ways to us. ' '
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God
has revealed Himself to us by His Word, and What His Word
was. But at last he told it to her thus :-- -
W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former days,
even from heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good
men by His spirit, and they have written all His laws down
in a book. ‘ ' '
Wife. Me no understand that. Where is book'?'
W. A. Alas, my poor creature, I have not this book! but
I hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you
to read it. _
Here he embraced her with great a'ection, but with inex- '
pressible grief that he had not a Bible. , .
Wife. But how you makee me know that God teaches the
to write that book? ' '
W A. By the same rule that we know Him to be God.
Wife. What rule? What way you know Him?
W. A. Because He teaches and commands nothing but what
is good, righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly
good, as well as perfectly happy 3 and because He forbids and
commands us'to avoid all that is wicked, that is ,evil in itself, I
or evil in its consequences. ' > ' a .
Wife. That me would understand, thatme fain see. If He
teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing 3 He reward all
good thing, punish all wicked thing; He make all thing, He
give all thing 3 He hear me when I say 0 to Him, as you do
just now; He makee me good, if I wish be good; He spare I
me, no makee kill me, when I no be good: all this you say '
f
. - - \ '
400 Roez'nson C masoe.
He do, yet 'He be great God: me take, think, believe Him be
great God; me say 0 to Him with you, my dear.
Here the poor man could forbear'no longer, but raising her
up, made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to
instruct her in the knowledge of Himself _by His Spirit, and
that by some good providence, if possible, she'might some time
or other come to have a Bible, that she might read the Word
- of God, and be taught by it to know Him. This was the time
that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel
down by her, as above. '
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too
long to set down here ; and particularly she made him promise
that, since he confessed his own life had been a wicked,
abominable course of provocation against God, that he would
reform it, and not make God angry any more, lest He should
_ make him dead, as she called it, and then she should be left
alone, and never be taught to know this God better; and lest
he should be‘miserable, as he had told her wicked men should
be after death. _ , - -
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both,
but particularly to the young clergyman. He was indeed
wonderftu surprised with it, but under the greatest afiction
imaginable that he could not talk to her, that he could not
speak English to make her understand him ; and as she spoke
but very broken English, he could not understand her. How-
ever, he turned himself to me, and told me that he believed
there must me'more to do with this woman than to marry her.
I did not understand him at rst, but at length he explained
himself—viz., that she ought to be baptised. I agreed with
him in that part readily, and was for going about it presently.
“ N o, no; hold, sir,” said he. “Though I would have her be
baptised by all means, yet I must observe that Will Atkins,
her husband, has indeed brought her in a wonderful manner
to be willing to embrace a religious life, and has given her just
ideas of thebeing of a God, of His power, justice, and mercy;
yet I desire to know of him if he has said anything to her of
Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners ; of the nature of
faith in Him, and redemption by Him; of the Holy Spirit, the
resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state.”
' I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor
The First Convert. ' ’ 401
fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said some-
thing to her of all. those things, but that he was himself so
wicked a creature, and his own conscience so reproached him
with his horrid ungodly life, that 'he trembled at the appre-
hensions that her knowledge of him should lessen the attention
she. should give to those things, and make her rather contemn
religion than receive it. But he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those
things, that if I would but discourse with her, she wouldmake
it appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not be lost
upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him
to begin with her. But sure such a sermon was never preached
by a Popish priest in these latter ages of the world; and, as
I told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all
the sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman
Catholic ; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the
Roman bishops were before the Church of Rome assumed
spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men. In a word,
he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ;
and of redemption by Him, not with wonder and astonishment
only, as she did the rst notions of a God, but with joy and
faith, with an affection and a surprising degree of understanding
scarce to be imagined, much less tobe expressed; and at her
own request she was baptised.
When he was preparing to baptise her, I entreated him that
he would perform that oice with some caution, that the man
might not perceive he was of the Roman Church, if possible,
because of other ill consequences which might attend a difference
among us in that very religion which we were instructing the
other in. He told me that, as he had no consecrated chapel,
no proper things for the ofce, I should see he would do it in
a manner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman
Catholic myself, if I hadnot known it before; And so he
did; for, saying only some words over to himself in Latin,
which I could not understand, he poured a whole dishful of
water upon the woman’s head, pronouncing in French, very
loud, “Mary (which was the name her husband desired me to '
give her, ‘for I was her godfather), I baptise thee in the name
2 n ' '
402 ' Rooz'nson C 1%.5‘08.
of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost ;" so
that none could know anything by it what religion he was of.
He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin ; but either Will
Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not take
notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them; .and after the
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very
affectionate manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in that
good disposition he was in, but to support the convictions that
were upon him by a resolution to reform his life ,- told him it
was in vain to say he repented if he did not forsake his crimes;
representedto him how God had honoured him with being the
instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the
Christian religion, and that he should be careful he did not
dishonour the grace of God, and that if he did, he would see
the heathen'a better Christian than himwlf—the savage con-
verted and the instrument cast away. He said a great many
good things to them both, and then recommending them, in a
few words, to God’s goodness, gave them the benediction again,
' I repeating everything to them in English 3 and thus ended the
ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant and agreeable day
to me that ever I passed in my whole life. '
But my clergyman had not done yet. His thoughts hung
continually upon the conversion of the seven-and-thirty savages,
and fain he would have stayed upon the island to have under-
taken it. But I convinced him, rst, that his undertaking
was impracticable in itself 3 and, secondly, that perhaps I would
put it into a way of being done in his absence to his satis~
faction.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the
young man whom I had taken out of the famished ship’s con1~
pany came to me, and told me he understood I had a clergyman
with me, and that had caused the Englishmen to be married
to the savages whom they called wives; that he had a match
too, which he desired might be nished before I went, between
two Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable
to me. ' ~
I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother’s
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island.
Another Match Proposea’. 403
So I began to persuade him not to do anything of that 'kind
rashly, or because he found himself in this solitary circumstance.
I represented to him that he had some considerable substance
in the world, and good friends, as I understood by himself and
by his maid also 3 that his maid was not only poor and a
servant, but Was unequal to him, she being six or seven-and-
twenty years old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that
he might very probably, with my assistance, make a remove
from this wilderness, and come into his own country again; and
that then it would ,be a thousand to one but he would repent
his choice 3 and the dislike of that circumstance might be dis-
advantageous to both. I was going to say more, but he inter-
rupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal of modesty,
that I mistook in my guesses 3 that he had nothing of that kind
in his thoughts, his present circumstance being melancholy and
disconsolate enough 3 and he was very glad to hearthat I' had
thoughts of putting them in a way to see their own cormtry
again; and nothing should have put him upon staying there
but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding long and
hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all
his friends 3 that he had nothing to desire of me but that I
would settle him in some little property in the island where he
, was, give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, and
he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting the good,
time when, if ,ever I returned to England, I would redeem him,
and hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came to
England: that he would give me some letters to his friends in
London, to let them know how good I had been to him, and
in what part of the world and what circumstances I had left
him in : and he promised me that, whenever I redeemed him,
the plantation, and'all the improvement he had made upon it,
let the value be what it would, should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his
youth, and was the more agreeable to me because he told me
positively the match was not for himself. I gave him all
possible assurances that, if I lived to come safe to England, I'
would deliver his letters, and do his business effectually, and
that he might depend I should never forget the circumstances
I had left him in. But still I was impatient to know who Were
the persons to be married, upon which he told me it was my .
Jackiof-aJl-trades and his maid Susan. I was most agreeably
surprised when he named the match, for indeed I thought it
very suitable. The character of that man I have given already ,-
and as for the maid, she wasla very honest, modest, sober, and
religious young woman ; had a very good share of sense, was
agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to
the purpose, always with decency and good manners, and not
backward to speak when anything required it, or impertinently
forward to speak when it was not her business; very handy
and housewifely in anything that was before her ; an excellent
manager, and t indeed to have been governess to the whole
island ; she knew very well how to behave to all kind of folks
she had about her, and to better, if she had found any there.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married them
the same day; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say,
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for their
plantation. "And indeed this match, and the proposal the young
gentleman made to give him a small property in the island, put
me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that they might not
quarrel‘afterwards about their situation.
‘ This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who,
indeed, was now grown a sober,grave, managing fellow, per-
fectly reformed, exceedingly pious and religious, and, as far as
I may be allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily
believe was a true, sincere penitent. ‘ He divided things so
' justly, and so much to every one’s satisfaction, that they only
desired one general writing under my hand for the whole, which
I caused to be drawn up and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the bounds and situation of every man’s plantation, and
testifying that I gave them thereby severally a right to the
whole possession and inheritance of the respective plantations
or farms, with their improvements, to them and their heirs,
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a
‘ certain rent for every particular plantation after eleven years,
if I, or any one from me or in my name, came to demand it,
producing an attested copy of the same writing.
As to the government and laws among them, I told them I
.was' not capable of giving them better rules than they were
able to give themselves ; only I made them promise me to live
The Colony United. 405
in love and good neighbourhood with one another. And so’ I
prepared to leave them. .
One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now
settled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves, and.
having much business in hand, it was odd to have seven-and-
thirty Indians live in a nook of the island independent, and
indeed unemployed; for excepting the providing themselves
food, which they had diiculty enough in too sometimes, they
had no manner of business or property to manage. I proposed,
therefore, to the governor Spaniard that he should go to them,
with Friday’s father, and. propose to them to remove, and either
plant for themselves, or be taken into their several families as
servants, to be maintained for their labour, but without being
absolute slaves; for I would not permit them to make them
slaves by force by any means, because they had their liberty
given them by capitulation, and, as it were, articles of surrender,
which they ought not to break. ’ _ f ‘
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all
very cheerfully along with him ; so we allotted them land and
plantations, which three or four accepted of, but all the rest
chose to be employed as servants in the several families we had
settled. And thus my colony was, in a manner, settled as
follows :——The Spaniards possessed my original habitation,
which was the capital city, and extended their plantations all
along the side of the brook, which made the creek that I have
so often described, as far as my bower; and as they in-
creased their culture, it went always eastward. The English
lived in the north-east part, where Will Atkins and his com-
rades began, and came on southward and south—west, towards
the back part of the Spaniards; and every plantation had a
great addition of land to take inhif they found occasion, so
that they need notjostle one another for want of room. - All
the east end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of
the savages should come on shore there only for their usual
customary barbarities, they might come and go. If they dis- .
turbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt but
they were often ashore, and went away again, for I never heard
that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more.
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my ’
friend the clergyman that the work of converting the savages
b
r-‘gi’ii
l - ~ 1;.
u
f
'might perhaps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction.
And I told him that now I thought it was .put in a fair way ;
for the,savages being thus divided among the Christians, if
‘they would but every one of them do their part with those
which came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect. - -
He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. “But
how,” says he, “shall we obtain that of them ‘1” I told him
we would call them all together, and' leave it in charge with
them, or go to them one by one, which he thought, best. So
we divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all
Papists, and I to the English, who were all Protestants; and
we recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise
that they would never make any distinction of Papist or
Protestant in their exhorting the savages to turn Christians,
but teach them the general knowledge of the true God, and of
their Saviour J esus Christ; and they likewise promised us that
'they would never have, any differences or disputes one with
another about religion.
When I came to Will Atkins’ house—I may call it so, for
~ such a house, or such a piece of basketwork, I believe was not
standing in the world again; I say, when I came there, I found
the young woman I have' mentioned above and Will Atkins’
wife were become intimates ; and this prudent, religious young
woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun. And
_ though itwas not above four days after what I have related,
yet the new-baptised savage woman was made such a Christian
as I have seldom heard of in all my observation or conversation
in the world. . ' . , .
It came next into my mind, in the morning before I went to
them, that amongst all the needful things I had to leave with
them I had not left them a Bible ,' in which I showed myself
less considering for them than my good friend the widow was
for me when she sent me the cargo of a, hundred pounds from
Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-book. '
However, the good woman’s charity had a greater extent than
ever she imagined ,' for they were reserved for the comfort and
instruction of those that made much better use of them than
I had done. . i
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to
I
An Answer to Prayer. ' 407
WillAtkins’ tent or house, and found the young woman and
Atkins’ baptised wife had been discoursing of religion together
-for Will Atkins told it me with a great deal of j oy_—I asked
if they were together now, and he said, “ Yes ;” so I went into
the house, and he ,with me, and we found them together very
earnest in discourse. “ Oh, sir,” says Will Atkins, “ when
God has sinners to reconcile to Himself and aliens to bring
home, He never wants a messenger; my wife has got a new
instructor. I knew I was unworthy as I was incapable of that
work. That young woman has been sent hither from heaven;
she is enough to convert a whole island of savages.” .' The young
woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I desired her to sit
still. I told her she had a good work upon her hands, and I
hoped God would bless her in it. ‘ \
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book
among them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand into
_ my pocket, and pulled cut my Bible. “ Here,” says I to
Atkins, “ I have brought you an assistant that perhaps you
had not before.” The man was so confounded that he was not
able to speak for some time ; but recovering himself, he takes
it with both his hands, and turning to his wife, “Here, my
dear,” says he ; “ did I not tell you our God, though He lives
above, could hear what we have said? Here’s the book I prayed
for when you and I kneeled down under the bush : now God
has heard us, and“sent it.” When he had said so, the man fell
into such transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of
having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his
face like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a
mistake that none of us were aware of; for she rmly believed
God had sent the book upon her husband’s petition. It is true
that providentially it was so, and might be taken so in a con-
sequent sense; but I believe it would have been no difcult
matter at that time to have persuaded the poor woman to have
believed that an express messenger _came from heaven on
purpose to bring that individual book. But it was too serious
a matter to suffer any delusion to take place; so I turned to
the young'woman, and told her we did not desire to impose
upon the new convert in her rst and more ignorant under- \
standing of things, and. begged her to explain to her that God
may be very 'properly said to‘ answer our petitions, when in the
course of His providence such things are in a particular manner
brought to pass as we petitioned for; but we did not expect
returns from heaven in a miraculous and particular manner, and
it' is a mercy that it is not so. ' _
e ‘This the young woman did afterwards effectually, so that
there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here ; and I should
have thought it one of the ,most unjustiable frauds in the
world to have-had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will
Atkins is really not to be expressed; and there we may be sure i
there was no delusion. “ Sure no 'man Was ever more thankful
in the world for anything of its .kind than he was, for his '
Bible ; nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible from
a better principle. And though he had been a most proigate
creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and wicked
to a great degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all for
the well instructing children—viz., “that parents should never -
give over‘to teach and instruct, or ever despair of the success
cf their endeavours, let the children 'be ever so obstinate;
refractory, or, to appearance,'insensible to instruction. For if
ever God in His providence touches the consciences of such, the
force of their education returns upon them, and the 'early
instruction-of -‘parents is not lost, though it may have been
many years laid asleep, but some time or other they may nd
the benet of it. Thus it was with this poor man. However
ignorant he was, or divested of religion and Christian knowledge,
he- found he had some ‘to do with now‘more ignorant than
himself, and that the least part of the instruction of his good
father that could now come to hismind was of use to him.
1 Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father
used to insist much upon the inexpressible value of the Bible,
and the privilege and blessing of it to nations, families, and
persons ; but he never entertained the least notion of the worth
of it till now, when, being to talk to heathens, savages, and
barbarians, he 'wanted ;the help- of the written oracle for his
assistance.‘ ' ' ' _r' ~ ‘ .
The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion,
thOugh she had one, and so had the youth, on board our ship
ameng their goods, 'which .Were not yet brought on shore.
'And now, having'said so many things of this young woman,‘I.
_ wine and a little water.
,spirits to nd myself in the extremity. of famine.
‘ glass yof wine wehad' I drank, and put sugar in it,.because of
A n Aecting Narrative. 409'
- \
cannot emit telling one story more of her and myself, which
has something in it very instructive and remarkable. . *I
I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was
reduced 3 how her mistress was starved to. death, and died on
board that unhappy ship we met at sea 3 and how the whole
ship’s company, being reduced to the last extremity, the gentle-
WOman and her son and this maid were rst hardly used as to
provisions, and at last tctally neglected and starved 3 - that is to
say, brought to the last extremity ofhunger. - One'day, being
discoursing with her on the extremities they suffered, I asked
her if she could describe by what she had felt what it was to
starve, and how it appeared. She told me she believed 'she
could, and she told her tale very distinctly thus I i '-
“ First, sir,” said she, “we had for some days fared exceed-
ingly hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now at last we
were wholly without food of any kind, except sugar and a little
The rst day after I had received no'
food at all, I found myself towards evening rst empty and
sickish at my- stomach, and nearer night mightily inclined to
yawning and sleepy. I layldown on a couch in the great cabin
to sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little '
refreshed, having taken a glass of, wine when I lay d0wn.
After being about three hours awake, it being about ve o’clock
in the morning, found myself empty, and my stomach sickish, I
and lay dewn again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint
and ill; and thus I continued all the second day with a strange
variety—rst hungry,- then sick again,wvith retchings to vomit._
The second night, being obliged to go to bed again' without-
any food more than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep,
I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market iwas
mightily stocked with "provisions; that _I-bought some for my
mistress, and went and dined very heartily. -I thought my
stomach was as full after this as it would have been after a
good dinner; but when I awoke I was exceedingly sunk in my
The last
its having some spirit to. supply nourishment; but there being
no substance in the stomach. for the digesting ofce to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was to raise disagree-
able fumes from the stomach’ into the head; and I lay, as they
told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some time.
The third day, in the morning, after a night of strange, con-
fused, and inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping,
I awaked ravenous and furious with hunger; and I question,
had not my understanding returned and conquered it——I say I
question whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a little
child with me, its life would have been safe or not. This
lasted about three hours, during which time I was twice'raging
mad as any creature in bedlam, as my young master told me,
and as he can now inform you. .
“In one of these ts of lunacy or distraction, whether by
- the motion of the ship or some slip of my foot I know not, I
fell down and struck my face against the corner of a pallet-bed,
in which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood gushed
out of my nose ; and the cabin-boy bringing me .a little basin,
I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the blood ran
from me, I came to myself, and the violence of the ame or-
fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the
hunger. Then I grew sick, and retched to vomit, but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up. After I
had bled some time I swooned, and they all believed I was
dead; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most
dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be described—not like the
colic, but a gnawing, eager pain for food ; and towards night it
went off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food—
something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with
' child. I took another draught of water with sugar in it, but
my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again;
then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that stayed
"with me ;‘ and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most
heartily that it would please God to take me away; and com-
posing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and then
waking, thought myself dying, being light .with vapours from -
an empty stomach. I recommended my soul to God, and _
earnestly wished that semebody would throw me into the sea.’
“All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, -
expiring, but bore it with much more patience than I; and
gave the last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young
master, who would not have taken it, but she obliged him to
eat it 3‘ and I believe it savedlhis life.
Dying of 'Sz‘arvdtz'on; . I 411
“ Towards the morning I slept again, and rst when I awoke
I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that I had a
second t of violent hunger. I got up ravenous, and in a most a
dreadful condition. Had my mistress been dead, as much as
I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a piece of her
esh with as much relish and as unconcerned as ever I did the
esh of any creature appointed for food ; and once or twice I
was going to bite my own arm“ At last I saw the basin in
which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day before.
I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste and such a greedy
appetite as if I had wondered nobody had taken it before, and
afraid it would be taken from me now. After it was down,
though the thoughts of it lled me with horror, yet it checked
the t of hunger, and I took another draught of water, and
was composed and refreshed for some hours after. This was
- the fourth day ,' and thus I kept up till towards night, when,
within the compass of' three hours, I had all these several
circumstances over again, one after another—viz., sick, sleepy,
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then
sick again, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again ; and
so every quarter ,of an hour, and my strength wasted exceed-
ingly. At night I lay down, having no comfort .but in the
hope that I should die before morning. a
“All this night I had no sleep; ‘but the hunger was now
' turned into a disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping, by
wind, instead of food, having found its way into the bowels.
And in this condition I lay until morning, when I was surprised
a little with the cries and lamentations of my young master,
who called out to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself
up a little, for I had' not strength to _rise ; but found she was
not dead, though she was able to give very little signs of life.
“I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of
some sustenance, as I cannot describe ; with such frequent
throes and pangs of appetite as nothing but theltortures of
death can imitate. And in this condition I was when I heard
the seamen above cry out, ‘A sail! a sail!’ and halloo and
jump about as if they were distracted.
“I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress
much less; and my young master was so sick that-I thought
he had been expiring; so we could not open the cabin door, or
'get any account what it was that occasioned such confusion ;
nor had we had any conversation with the ship’s company for
two days, they having told us that they had not a mouthful of
. anything to eat in the ship ; and they told us afterwards they
thought we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition We
- were in when you were sent tosave our lives; and‘how you
found us, sir, you know as well as I, and better too.”
This was her own relation,‘and is such a distinct account of
starving to death as I confess -I never met with, and was
exceedingly entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe
it to be a true account, because the youth gave me an account
of a good part of it, though, I must own, not so distinct and so
feeling as the maid ; and the rather, because it seems his
mother fed him at the price of her own life. But the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that of her
mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she might
.struggle harder with it; I say, the poor maid might be sup-
posed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress,
who might be allowed to keep the last bit something longer
than she parted with any to relieve the maid. N 0 question,
as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, had not
so providentially met them, a few days more would have ended
all their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their case stood, would have served
them but a little while, they being ve hundred leagues from
any land, or any possibility of relief, other than in the miracu-
lous manner it happened; but this is by the way. I return to
my disposition of things among the people.
And, rst, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I
did not think t to let them know anything of the sloop I had
framed, and which I thought of setting up among them ," for
I found, at least at my rst coming, such seeds of division
among them, that I saw plainly, had I set up the sloop and
left it among them, they Would upon every light disgust have
separated, and gone away from one another ; or perhaps have
turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead
of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended it.
. Nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on
board, or the two' quarter-deck guns that my nephew took
extraordinarily, for the same reason. I thought it Was enough
Bids Ada” a at Island. 413
to qualify them for a defensive war against any that should
invade them 3 but not to set them up for an offensive war, or -
to encourage them to go abroad to' attack others, which in the
end would only bring ruin and destruction upon themselves
and all their undertaking. I reserved the sloop, therefore,
and the gims, for their service another way, as I shall observe
in its place. .
Having now done with the island, I left them all in good
circumstances, and in a ourishing condition, and went on'
board my .ship again on the 5th day of May, having been ve-
and-twenty days among them 3 and as they were all resolved
to stay upon, the island till I came to remove them, I promised
to send some further relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly '
nd an opportunity; and particularly I promised to send them
some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows 3 for as to the two
cows and calves which I brought from England, we had been
obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for
want of hay to feed them. I
The next day, giving them a salute of ve guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints in the Brazils
in about twenty-two 'days, meeting nothing remarkable in our
passage but this: that about three days after we sailed, being
becalmed, and the current setting strong to the east-north-east,
running, as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land side, we ’
were driven something out of our course, and once or twice our
men cried out, “Land to the eastward l” but whether it was
the continent or islands we could not tell by any means. But ‘
the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather
calm, we saw the sea as it were covered towards the land with
something very black. Not being able to discover what it was
until after some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds
a little way and looking at them with a perspective, cried out
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an
army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fobl, or
some such word. “Nay, sir,” says he, “don’t be angry, for
’tis an army and a eet too, for I believe theie are a thousand
canoes; and you may see them paddle along, and they are:
coming towards us, too, apace.” ' ‘
I was a little surprised then indeed, and so was my nephew
the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in
the is1and, and having never been in those seas before, that he
could not tell what to think of it, but said two or three times
we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering we
were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore, I
liked it the worse. However, I bade him not be afraid, but
bring the ship. to an anchor as soon as we came so near as -_to
know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us ,' so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all
(1111' sails. As for the savages, I told them they had nothing to
fear but re, and therefore they should get their boats out, and
fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the stern,
and man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture.
This I did that the men the boats might be ready with sheets
and buckets to put out any re these savages might endeavour
to x to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they
came up with us ; but never was such a horrid sight 'seen by
Christians. Though my mate was much mistaken in his calcu-
lation of their number, yet when they came up we reckoned
about a hundred and twenty-six ; some of them had sixteen or
seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least six or
seven. . »
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which they had doubt-
less never seen before ; nor could they at rst, as we afterwards
' understood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up,
however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round
us; but we called to our men in the boats not to let them come
too near them. This very order brought us to an engagement
with them without our designing it; for ve or six of their
canoes came so near our long-boat, that Our men beckoned with
their hands to keep back, which they understOod very well,
and went back; but at their retreat about fty arrows came on
board us from those boats, and one of our men in the long-boat
was very much wounded. However, I called to_them not to
re by any means ; but we handed down some deal boards into
the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence,
like waste boards, to cover them from thearrows of the savages,
if they should shoot again. I
Poor Frzlt’ay Kai/ed! 415
' About half-an-hour afterwards they all came up in a-body
astern of us, and so near that we could easily discern what they
' were, though We could not tell their design. And I easily
found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a little -
time‘more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
us, till they came so near that they could hear us speak. >Upon
this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot
any more arrows, and made all our guns ready: but being so
near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon 'the
deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what
they meant ; which accordingly he did. Whether they under-' '
stood him or not, that I know not ; but as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost or
nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from us, and stooping
down, showed us their naked backs. Whether this was a
deance or challenge we know not, or whether it was done in
mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest; but immediately
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for
him, poor fellow, they let y about three hundred of their
arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no
other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with
no less than three arrows, and about three more fell very near
him ; such unlucky marksmen they were. -
I was so enraged at the loss of my old servant, the com-
panion of all my sorrows and solitudes, I that I immediately
ordered ve guns to be loaded with small shot, and feur with
great, and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard
in their lives before, to be sure. They werenot above half-a-
cable’s length o when‘we red, and our gunners took their aim
so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as we
had reason to believe, by one shot only. 1 a .
The ill manners of turning their bare backs to us gave us
no great offence, neither did I know for certain whether that
which would pass for the greatest contempt .among us might
be understood so by them or not; therefore, in return, I had
only resolved to have red four or ve guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufciently.
But when they shot at us directly with all the fury they were


capable of, and especially as they had killed my poor Friday,
whom I so entirely loved and valued, and Who indeed so well
deserved it, I thought myself not only justiable before God-
and man, but would have been very glad if I could have overset
every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.
I can neither tell how many
we killed nor how many we
wounded at this broadside; but
sure such a fright and hurry
never were seen among such a
multitude. There were thirteen
._ or fourteen of their canoes split
i. and overset in all, and the men
all set a-swimming ; the rest,
. T frightened out of their Wits,


» The Savages Dispersed. . 417.
scoured away as’ fast as they could, taking but little care to
save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot. So
I suppose that many of them were lost. And our men took
up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone. - '
The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound
a great many 3 but, in short, we never knew how it went with
them, for they ed so fast that, in three hours or thereabouts,
we could not see above three or four straggling canoes 3 nor ‘
did we ever see the rest any more, for a breeze of wind spring-
ing up the same evening, we weighed and set sail for the
Brazils. - . I
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen
that he' would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death. But I took a way to cure him,
for I made them take him and turn him into the long-boat, and
made him believe they would toss him into the sea again, and
so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak.
Nor would that do; but they really did throw him into the
sea, and came away from him 3 and then _he followed them, for
he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said. However, at last
they took him in again, and then he began to be more tractable 3
nor did I ever design they should drown him. I
We were now under sail again, but I was the most discon-
solate creature alive for want of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to the island, to have
taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion, but it could
not be 3 so we went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said,
and it was a long while before we could make him understand
anything 3 but, in time, our men taught him some English, and-
he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards we inquired what .
country he came from, but could make nothing of what he ‘ ,
said 3 for his speech was so odd—all gutturals, and spoken in
the throat in such a hollow, odd manner—that we could never
ferm a word- after him 3 and we were all of _opinion that they
might speak that language as well if they were gagged as
otherwise; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed their words
just as a hunting-horn forms a tune with an open throat. He
2 E
toldus, however, some time after, when we had taught him to
speak a little English, that they were going with their kings
to ght a great battle. ' When he said kings, we asked him
how many kings? He said they were ve nation—we could
not make him understand the plural s—and that they all joined
to go against two nation. We asked him what made them
come up to us? He said, “ To makcc to great wonder look.”
Here it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also those
of Africa, when they learn English, always add two e’s at the
end of the words where we use one ; and they place the accent
upon them, as makee, take’e, and the like; and we could not
break them off it; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it
off, though at last he did. _ ~
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take
my leave of him. Poor honest Friday! We buried him with
all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a
cofn, and throwing 'him into the sea; and I caused them to
re eleven guns for him. And so ended the life of the most
grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that
ever man had.
We now went away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in
about twelve days’ time we made land in the latitude of ve
degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost land of
all that part of America. We kept on south by east in sight
of the shore four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and
in three days came to an anchor off the Bay of All Saints, the
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
and evil fate. ‘
Never ship came to this port that had less business than I
had ; and yet itwas with great difculty that we were admitted
to hold the least correspondence on shore. Not my partner
himself, who was alive, and made a great gure among them;
not my two merchant-trustees ; not the fame of my wonderful
preservation in the island, could obtain me that favour. But
my partner, remembering that I had given ve hundred
moidores to the Prior of the Monastery of the Augustines, and
two hundred and seventy—two to the poor, went to the
monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go to the
governor and get leave for me personally, with the captain and
one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
a
Semis Sugp/é'es to the Island. 419
more ,' and this upon condition, absolutely capitulated for, that
we should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to
carry any person away without licence. They were so strict
with us, as to landing any goods, that it was with extreme
difculty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such'
as ne broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had brought
for a present to my partner. ' ,
He was a very generous, open-hearted man, though, like me,
he began with little at rst ; and though he knew not that I
had the least design of giving him anything, he sentme on
board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats,
worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco, and three
or four ne medals of gold. , But I was even with him in my
present, which, as I have said, consisted of ne broadcloth,
English stuffs, lace, and ne Hollands ,- also I delivered him
about the value of one hundred pounds sterling in the same
goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the sloop
which I had brought with me from England, as I have said, for
the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I in-
tended to my plantation. - '
Accordingly he got hands, and nished the sloop in a very
few days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master
of her such instructions that he could not miss the place ; nor
did he, as I had an acCount from my partner afterwards. I
got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them ; and
one of our seamen that had been on shore with me there offered
to go with the sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the
governor Spaniard to allot him a sufcient quantity of land for
a plantation, and giving him some clothes, and tools for his
planting work, which he said he understood, having been an
old planter at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I
encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as
an addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken
prisoner of war to be his slave, and ordered the governor
Spaniard to give him his share of everything he wanted with
the rest.
When we came to t \this man out, my old partner told me
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his
acquaintance, _who had fallen into the displeasure of the
Church. - “ I know not what the matter is with him,” says he,
1‘
“ but on my conscience I think he is a heretic in his heart, and
he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisi-
tion ;” that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape with his wife and two daughters; and if I
would let them go to my island, and allot them a plantation,
he would give them a small stock to begin with ; for the ofcers
of the Inquisition had' seized all his effects and estate, and he
had nothing left but a little household stuff, and two slaves.
, “And,” adds he, “though I hate his principles, yet I would
not have him fall into their hands, for he will be assuredly
burned alive if he does.” _ _ _
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with
’ them, and we concealed the man and his wife and daughters
on board our ship till the sloop put out to go to Sea, and then,
having put all their goods on board some time before, we put
them on board the sloop after she was got out of thebay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner ; and
their stock, indeed, was much alike, rich in tools, in prepara-
tions, and a farm, but nothing to begin with, except as above.
However, they carried over with them, which was worth all
the rest, some materials for planting sugar-canes, with some
plants of canes, which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood
very well. 4
Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the
island, I sent them by the sloop three milch cows and ve
calves, about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows big with
pig, two mares, and a stone-horse. For my Spaniards, accord-
ing to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go, and
recommended it to_ them to marry them, and use them kindly.
I could have procured more women, but I remembered that
the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and that there
were but ve of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives
of their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, -
Was very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides little
children, of which there were a great many. I found letters
at London from them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came
back to England; of which I shall also take some notice im-
mediately. ‘ \
A ‘Wana’erer again! 421 ‘
I have now donewith my island, and all manner of discourse -
about it 3 and whoever 'reads the rest of my memorandums
would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect ~
to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own
harms, much less by those of other men, to beware of the like 3
not cooled by almost forty years’ misery and disappointments,
not satised with prosperity beyond expectation, nor made
cautious by afiction and distress beyond imitation. - -
I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man
at full liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the
turnkey at N ewgate, and desire him to lock him up among the
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel
from England, and _gone directly to the island 3 had I loaded
her, as'l did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the
plantation and for my people, taken a patent from the govern-
ment here to have secured my property, in subjection only to
that of England; had I carried over cannon and ammunition,
servants and people to plant, and taken possession of the place,
fortied and strengthened it in the name of England, and
increased it with people, as I might easily have done 3 had I
then settled myself there, and sent the ship back laden with
good rice, as I might also have done in six months’ time, and
ordered my friends to have tted her out again for our supply;
had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had at least acted
like a man of common sense. ‘But I was possessed of a wanders
ing spirit, and scorned all advantages. 'I pleased myself with '
being the patron of the people I placed there, and 'doing for
them in a kind of haughty, majestic way, like an Iold patriarchal ‘
monarch 3 providing forthem as if I had been father of the I
whole family, as well as of the plantation. But I neve'r so
much as pretended to plant in the name of my government or
nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people
subjects to any one nation more than another; _nay, I never so
much as gave the place a name, but left it as I found it,
belonging to no man, and the people under no discipline or
government but my own 3 who, though I had inuence over
them as a father and benefactor, had no authority or power to
act or command one way or other, further than voluntary con-
sent moved them to comply. Yet even this, had I stayed
there, would have done well enough. But as I rambled from
them, and came there no more, the last letters I had from any
of them were by my partner’s means, who afterwards sent
another sloop to the place, and who sent me word (though I had
not the letter till ve years after it was written) that they went
on but poorly, were discontented with their long stay there;
that Will Atkins was dead, that ve of the Spaniards were
come away, arid that, though they had not been much
molested by the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes
with them; and that they begged of him to write to me to
think of the promise I had made to fetch them away, that they
might see their country again before they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed; and they that
will have any more of me must be content to follow me into a
new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein
the justice of Providence may be duly observed, and we may
see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, make
the strongest'of our wishes be our afiction, and punish us
most severely with those very things which we think it would
he our utmost happiness to be allowed in. -
Let no wise man atter himself with the strength of his own
judgment, as if he were able to choose any particular station of
life for himself. Man is a short-sighted creature, sees but a
very little way before him; and as his passions are none of
his best friends, so his particular affections are generally his
worst counsellors. I say this with respect to the impetuous
desire I had from a youth to wander into the world, and how
evident it now was that this principle was preserved in me for
my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the circum-
stance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give you
historically, and with its utmost variety of particulars. But
'the secret ends of Divine power, in thus permitting us to be
hurried down the stream of our own desires, is only to be
understood of those who can listen to the voice of Providence,
and draw religious consequences from God’s justice and their
own mistakes.
Whether I had business or no business, away I went. ’Tis no
time now to enlarge any further upon the reason or absurdity
of my own conduct ; but to come to the history, I was embarked
for the voyage, and the voyage I went. I should only add
here that my honest and truly pious clergyman left me here.
Ta; Cape ' of Good Hope. 423
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, he asked me leave to go
thither, being still, as he observed, bound never to nish any
voyage he began. How happy had it been for me if I had
gone with him! But it was too late now : all things Heaven
appoints are best. Had I gone with him I had never had so
many things to be thankful for, and you had never heard of
the Second Part of the Travels and Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe. So I must here leave the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic
Sea to the Cape de Bon Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape
of Good Hope, and had a tolerably good voyage, our course
generally south-east ; now and then a storm, and some contrary
winds. But my disasters at sea were at an end. My future
rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore, that it might
appear the land was as well prepared to be our scourge as
the sea, when Heaven, who directs the circumstances of things,
pleases to appoint it to be so. 1
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on
board, who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at
the Cape, only being limited to certain numbers of days for
stay, by charter-party, at the several ports she was to go to.
This was none of my business, neither did I meddle with it at
all ; my nephew, the captain, and the supercargo adjusting all
those things between them as they thought t.
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take
in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of
Coromandel. We were indeed informed that a French man-of-
war of fty guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone for
the Indies ; and as I knew we were at war with France, I had
some apprehensions of them. But they went their way, and
we heard no more of them. -
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with descrip- '
tions of places, ' journals of our voyages, variations of the
compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade winds, situation of
ports, and the like, such as almost all the histories of long
navigation are full of, and makes the reading tiresome enough,
and are perfectly unprotable to all that read it, except only to
those who are to go to those places themselves. It is enough
to name the ports and places which we touched at, and what
a
occurred to us upon our passage from one to another. We
touched rst at the island of Madagascar, where, though the
people are erce and treacherous, and, in particular, very well
armed with lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile: they
treated us very civilly, and for some tries which we gave them,
such as knives, scissors, 850., they brought us eleven good fat
bullocks, middling in size, but very good in esh; which we
took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship’s use.
We were obliged to stay here some time after We had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always too
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the east
side of the island that we’went on shore one evening ; and the
people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came thronging
about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance. But as we had
traded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no danger. But when we saw the people,
we out three boughs out -of a tree, and stuck them up at a
distance from us; which, it seems, is a mark in that country,
not only of a truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the
other side set up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that
they accept the truce too. But then, this is a known condition
of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they to come past your three poles or boughs
towards you ; so that you are perfectly secure within the three
poles, and all the space between your poles and theirs is
allowed, like a mark, for free converse, trafc, andv commerce.
When you go there, you must not carry your weapons with
you; and if they come into that space, they stick up their
javelins and lances all at the rst poles, and come on unarmed ;
but if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles and lay hold of their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end. —
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that a
greater number of their people came down than usual, but all
very friendly and civil; and they brought several kinds of pro—
visions, for which we satised them with such toys as we had.
Their women also brought us milk and roots, and several
A fray at Madagascar. _ 425
things very acceptable to us 3 and all was quiet. And we
made us a little tent or hut of some boughs of trees, and lay on
shore all night. '
I knew not what was the occasion, but I was not so well
satised to lie on shore as the rest 3 and the boat riding at an
anchor abouta stone-cast from the land, with two men in her
to take care of her, I made one of them come on shore, and
getting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I
spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the
cover of the branches of trees all night'in the boat.
About two o’clock in the morning, we heard one of our men
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for God’s sake
to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were
all like to be murdered. At the same time I heard the ring
of ve muskets, which was the number of the guns they had,
and that three times over 3 for it seems the natives here were
not so easily frightened with guns as the savages Were in
America, where I had to do with them. All this while I knew‘
not what Was the matter 3 but rousing immediately from sleep
with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved,
with three fusees we had on board, to land and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too
much haste 3 for being come to the shore, they plunged into
the water to get to the boat with all the expedition they could,
being pursued by between three and four hundred men. Our
men were but nine in all, and only ve of them had fusees
with them; the rest had _indeed pistols and swords, but they
were of small use to them. . 1
We took up seven of our men, and with difculty enough
too, three of them being very ill wounded. And that which
was still worse was, that while we stood in the boat to take
our men in, we were in as much danger as- they were in on
shore 3 for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick that
we were fain to barricade the side of the boat up with the
benches, and two or three loose boards, which, to our great
satisfaction, we had by mere accident or providence in the boat.
And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such exact
marksmen, that if they could have seen but the least part of
any of us, they would have been sure of us. We had, by the
I light of the moon, a little sight of them, as they stood pelting
us from the shore with darts and arrows ; and having got ready
our rearms, we gave them a volley, and we could hear by
the cries of some of them that, we had wounded several.
However, they stood thus in battle array on the shore till break
of day ; which, we supposed, was that they might see the
better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh
our anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up
in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit
a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals of distress
to the ship, which, though she rode a league off, yet my
nephew, the captain, hearing our ring, and by glasses perceiv-
ing the posture we lay in, and that we red towards the shore,
pretty well understood us ; and weighing anchor with all speed,
he stoOd as near the shere as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us. But we
called “to them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in. However, they stood in near to us, and _
one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that they
could not perfectly see him, swam on board us, and made fast
the line to the boat; upon which we slipped our little cable,
and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of
the arrows, we all the while lying close behind the barrioado
we had made; . ' i
As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore,
that she could lay her side to the shore, she ran along just by
them, and poured in a broadside among them, loaded with
pieces of iron and lead, 'small bullets, and such stuff, besides
the great shot ; which made a terrible havoc among them;
-When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time
to examine into the occasion of this fray. And, indeed, our
supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put me upon it;
for, he said, he was sure the inhabitants would not have
- touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not done
something to provoke them to it. At length it came out—:viz.,
that an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had
brought it within our poles, and a young woman with her, who
also brought some roots or herbs; and while the old woman
Two Men Lost. ' ' " 427
(whether she was mother to the young woman or no they could
not tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men offered- some
rudeness to the wench that was with her, at which the old
woman made a great noise. However, the seaman would not
quit his prize, but carried her out Of. the old woman’s sight
amongst the trees, it being almost dark. The old woman went
away without her, and, as we may suppose, made an outcry
among the people she came from, who, upon notice, raised this
great army upon us in three or four hours ; and it was great
odds but we had all been destroyed. , ,
One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him just
at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent '
they had made. The _rest came 011' free, all but the fellow who '
was the occasion’of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for
his ‘black mistress, for we could not hear what became of him
for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him, and
made our boat sail up shore and down shore several leagues,
but in vain; so we were obliged to give him over 3 and if he
alone had suffered for it, the loss had been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on
shore once more, to try if I could learn anything of him or
them.. It was the third night after the action that I had al
great mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief
we had done, and how the game stood on the Indians’ side. I
was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked
again; but I ought indeed to have been sure that the men I
went with had been under my command before I engaged in a
thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was brought into by
it without my knowledge or design.
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship,
besides the supercargo and myself; and we landed two hours
before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood
drawn up the evening before. I landed here because my
design, as I have said, was chiey to see if they had quitted the
eld, and if they had left any marks behind them of the mis-
chief we had done them; and I thought if we could surprise
one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man again by
. way of exchange.
' We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one and I the other.
We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed, and
we marched up, one body at a distance from the other, to the
\place ; but at rst could see nothing, it being very dark, till
by-and-by our boatswain, who led the rst party, stumbled and
fell over a dead body. This made them halt awhile, for
knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place
where the Indians had stood, they waited for my coming up.
Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
we knew would be in less than an hour, when we could easily
discern the havoc we had made among them. We told two-
and-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite
'dead: some had an arm and some a leg 'shot off, and one his
head; those that were wounded we supposed they had carried
away.
_ When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we
could come to the knowledge of, I resolved on going on board;
but the boatswain and his party sent me word that they were
resolved to make a visit to the Indian town where these dogs,
as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with
them; and if they could nd them, as they still fancied they
should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty, and it
might be they might nd Thomas Jeffery there : that was the
man’s name we had lost. ' . ,
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them ; for I would have commanded
them instantly on board, knowing it was not a_ hazard t for
us to run, who had a ship and ‘ ship-loading in our charge, and
a voyage to make which depended very much upon the lives
of the men; but as they sent me word they were resolved to
go, and only asked me and my company to go along with them,
I positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting on the
ground, in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men
began to importune me to go; and when I refused, began to
grumble, and say they were not under my command, and they
would go'. “ Come, Jack,” says one of the men, “ will you go
with me? . I’ll go for one.” Jack said he would, and another
followed, and then another; and, in a word, they all left me
but one,,whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat.
So the supercargo and I, with the thirdman, went back to the
Revenge resolved on. 429
boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and take-
care to take in as many of them as should be left 3 for I told
them it was a mad thing they were going about, and supposed
most of them would have the fate of Thomas Jeffery.
They told me, like seamen, they’d warrant it they would
come off again, and they would take care, &c. So away they
went. I entreated them to consider the ship and the voyage;
that their lives were not their own, and that they were
intrusted with the voyage in some measure 3 that if they mis—
carried, the ship might be lost for want of their help, and that
they could not answer for it to God or man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well have
talked to the maMast of the ship 3 they were mad upon their
journey, only they gave me good words, and begged I would
not be angry 3 that they would be very cautious, and they did
not doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at
farthest; for the Indian town, they said, was not above half-
a-mile off, though they found it above two miles before they
got to it. ' . '
Well, they all went away as above 3 and though the attempt
was desperate, and such as none but madmen would have gone
about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily
as boldly. They were gallantly armed, that’s true 3 for they
had every man a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol 3
some of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers, and
the boatswain and two more had pole-axes; besides all which,
they had among them thirteen hand-grenadoes. Bolder fellows,
and better provided, never went about any wicked work in the
world. -- ~ .
When they went out their chief design was plunder, and
they were in mighty hopes of nding gold there; but a cir-
cumstance which none of them were aware of set them on re
with revenge, and made devils of them all. _ »
- When they came to the few Indian houses which they
thought had been the town, which was not above half-a-mile
off, they were under a great disappointment; for there were
not above twelve or thirteen houses 3 and where the town was,
or how big, they knew not. They consulted, therefore, what
to do, and Were some time before they could resolve; for if
they fell upon these, they must cut all their throats, and it was
\
"' V'TF‘T': F“ , I‘m ' "v , ~ ’ “WWI-"'lr ' ' r - - {y
ten to one but some of them might escape, it being in the
night, though the moon was up ; and if one escaped, he would
run away and raise all the town, so they should have a whole
army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went
away and left those untouched (for the peeple were all asleep),
they could not tell which way to look for the town. However,
the last was the best advice; so they resolved to leave them,
and look for the town as well as they. could. They went on a
little way, and found a cow tied to a tree. This they presently
concluded would be a good guide to them, for they said the
cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or the term
behind them; and if they untied her, they should see which
way she went: if she went back, they had nothing to say to
her; but if she went forward, they had nothing to do but to
follow her. So they cut the cord, which was made of twisted
ags, and the cow went on before them. In a word, the cow
led them directly to the town, which, as they reported, consisted
of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these
they found several families living together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep
and a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind could
make them ; and, rst, they called another council, to consider
what they had to do ; and, in a word, they resolved to divide
themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses on re in
three parts of the town, and as the men came out, to seize them
and bind them‘ any resisted, they need not be asked what
to do then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder:
but they resolved to march silently through the town, and see
what dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it
or no. .
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture
upon them ; but while they were animating one another to the
work, three of them that were alittle before the rest called out
aloud to them, and told them they had found Thomas J eery.
They all ran up to the place, and so it was indeed; for there
they found the poor fellow hung up naked .by one arm, and
’ his throat out. There was an Indian house just by the tree,
where they found sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians
who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and two
or three of them wounded with our shot ; and our men found
.7 — .v—wrrr
A Crete! Massacre. 431 _ .
they were awake, and talking one to another in that house,
but knew not their number. ‘
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them,
as before, that they swore to one another they would be re-
venged, and that not an Indian that came into their hands
should have any quarter ; and to work they went immediately,
and yet not so madly as might be expected from the rage and
fury they were in. Their rst care was to get something that
would soon take re, but after a little search they found that ,
- would be to no purpose; for most of _the houses were low, and
thatched with ags or rushes, of which the country is full ; so
they presently made some wildre, as we call it, by wetting a
little powder in the palms of their hands, and in a quarter of
an hour they set the town on re in four or ve places, and
particularly that house where the Indians were not gone' to
bed
As soon as the re began to blaze, the poor frightened
creatures began 'to rush out to save their lives, but met with
their fate in the attempt, and especially at the door, where they
drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-axe. The house being large and many in it, he
did not care to go in,_but called for a hand-grenado, and threw
it among them, which at rst frightened them, but, when it
burst, made such havoc among- them that they criedout in a
hideous manner. In short, most of the Indians who were'in
the open part of the house were killed or hurt with the grenado,
except two or three more who pressed to the door, which the
boatswain and two more kept with their bayonets on the muzzles
of their pieces, and despatched all that came in their way.
But there was another apartment in the house, where the
prince or king, or whatever he was, and several others were;
and these were kept in till the house, which was by this time
all in a light ame, fell in upon them, and they were smothered
or burned together. _
All this while they red not a gun, because they would not
waken the people faster than they could master them; but the
re began to waken them fast enough, and our fellows Were
glad to keep a little together'in bodies, for the re grew so
raging, all the houses being made of light combustible stuff,
that they could hardly bear the streetbetween them, and their
'
\
business was to follow the re for the surer execution. As
fast as the re either forced the people out of those houses
which were burning, or frightened them out of others, our
people were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
still calling and hallooing one to another to remember.Thomas
Jeffery. . Y
While this was doing I must confess I was very uneasy, and
especially when I saw the ames of the town, which, it being
night, seemed 'to be just by me. My nephew the captain, who
was roused by his men, seeing such a re, was very uneasy,
not knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was in;
especially hearing the guns too, for by this time they began to
use their rearms. A thousand thoughts oppressed his mind
concerning me and the supercargo, what would become of us ;
and at last, though he could ill spare any more men, yet not
knowing what exigence we might be in, he takes another
boat, and with thirteen men and himself'comes ashore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat
with no more than two men ; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know
what was doing, for the noise continued and the ames in-
creased. In short, it was next to an Mpossibility for any men
in the ,world to restrain their curiosity to know what had
happened, or their concern for_ the safety of the men. In a '
. word, the captain toldme he would go and help-his men, let .
what would come. I argued with him, as I did before with
the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the
interest of the owners and merchants, &c., and told him I and
the two men would go, and only see if we could at a distance
learn what was likely to be the event, and come back and tell
him. It was in vain to talk 'to my nephew, as it was to .talk
to the rest before ; he Would go, he said; and “he only wished‘
he had left but ten men in the ship, for he could not think of
having his men lost for want of help ; he had. rather lose the
ship, the yoyage, and his life and all ; and away he went.
_In a word, I was no more able to stay behind now than
I was to persuade them not to go; so, in short, .the captain
ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve
men more, leaving the long-boat at an anchor, and that, when
they came back, six men should keep the two boats, and six
(Q A Barbarous Revenge. ' 433.
more come after us 3 so that he left" only sixteen men in the '
ship 3 for the whole ship’s company consisted of sixty-ve men,
whereof two were lost in the late quarrel which brought thisI
mischief on. ' ' ‘
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of
the ground we trod on 3 and being guided by the re, we kept
no path, but went directly to the place of the ame. If the
noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the
poor people were now of quite another nature, and lled us
with horror. I must confess I never was at the sacking of a
city, or at the taking of a town by storm. vI had heard of
Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ireland, and killing man,
woman, and child 3 and I had read of Count Tilly sacking the
city of Magdeburg, and cutting the throats of' twenty-two
thousand of both sexes 3 but I never had an idea of the thing
itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror
that wasupon our minds at hearing it. However, we went on,
and at length came to the town, though there was no entering
the streets of it for the re. The rst object we met with was
the- ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it,‘ for the
house was consumed 3 and just before it, plainly now to be
seen by the light of the re, lay four men and three women,
killed, and, as we thought, One or two more lay ‘in the heap '
among the re. In short, there were such instances of a rage
altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was ‘
human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty
of it 3 or, if they were the authors of it, we thought they ought
to be every one of them put to the worst of deaths. But this
was not all: we saw the re increased forward, and the cry
went on just as the re went on 3 so that we were in the utmost
confusion. We advanced a little way farther, and behold, to
our astonishment, three women naked, and crying in a most
dreadful manner, came ying as, if they had wings, and after
them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and
consternation, with three of our English butchers—for I can
call them no better—in their rear, who, when they could not
overtake them, red in among them, and one that was killed
by their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us,
believing us to be their enemies, and that we would murder
them as well as those that pursued them, they set up a most
/
2 r -
dreadful shriek, especially the women; and two of them fell
down as if already dead with the fright.
' My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in
' my veins, when I saw this; and I believe, had the three
English sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our
men kill them all. However, we took some means to let the
poor ying creatures know that we would not hurt them, and
immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with their
hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them,
which we let them know we would; whereupon they crept
altogether in a huddle close behind us, as for protection. I
left my men drawn up together, and charged them to hurt
nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people, and see
what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to
do; and, in a word, to command them off, assuring them that
if they stayed till daylight, they would have a hundred thousand
men about their ears. I say I left them and went among those
ying people, taking only two of our men with me ; and there
was indeed a piteous spectacle among them.. Some of them
had their feet terribly burned with trampling and running
through the re, and others their hands burned. One of the
women had fallen down in the re, and was very much burned
before she could get out again; and two or three of the men
had cuts in their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing;
and another was shot- through the body, and died While I was
there. ' ' '
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was ;
but I could not understand one word they said, though by
signs Iperceived some of them knew not what was the occasion
themselves. I was so terried in my thoughts at this out-
rageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but went back to
my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of ‘the town,
through the re, or whatever might. be in the way, and put an
end to it, cost what it would. Accordingly, as soon as I came
back to my men I told them my resolution, and commanded
them to follow me ;y when at the very moment came four of
our men, with the boatswain at their head, roving over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and
dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre, when our men
hallooed to them as loud as they could halloo ; and with much
7’
KNEELING DO\\"N, \VITH THEIR HANDS Lll“'l‘El) UP.
' Remonstrance I useless. 435
ado one of them made them hear, so that they knew _who we
were, and came up to us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a
shout of triumph, for, as he thought, more help having come 3
and without waiting to hear me, “Captain,” says he, “noble
captain, I am glad you are come 3 we have not half done yet.
Villainous, hell-hound dogs! I’ll kill as many of them as poor
Tom hashairs upon his head. We have sworn to spare none
of them; We’ll root out the very nation of them from the
earth.”
and would not give us leave to speak a word. ,
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little,
“ Barbarous dog,” said I, “what are you doing? I won’t have
one creature touched more, upon pain of death. I charge you,
upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you
are a dead man this minute.” “Why, sir,” says he, “ do you
know what you do, or what they have done? If you want a
reason for what we have done, come hither 3” and with that
he showed me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time
would have been forward enough 3 but I thought they had
carried their rage too far, and remembered J acob’s words to
his sons Simeon and Levi, “ Cursed be their anger, for it was
erce 3 and their wrath, for it was cruel.” But I had now a
new task upon my hands 3 for when the men I carried with»
me saw the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain
them as I should have had with the others. Nay, my nephew
himself fell in with them, and told me in their hearing that he
was only concerned for fear of the men being overpowered;
and as to the people, he thought not one of them ought to
live, for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of
the poor man, and that they ought to be used like murderers. ,
Upon these words, away ran eight of my men, with the boat-
swain and his crew, to complete their bloody work 3 and I,
seeing it quite out of my power (to restrain them, came away
pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into their
ands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and
two men, and with these I walked back to the boat. , It was 9.
And thus he ran on, out of breath too with action,
very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back as it
were alone: for as it began now to be almost day, and the
alarm had,run over the country, there stood above forty men,
armed With lances and bows, at the little place where the
twelve or thirteen houses stood mentioned before ; but by
accident I missed the place, and came directly to the sea-side ;
and by the time I got to the sea-side, it was broad day. Im-
mediately I took the- pinnace and went on board, and sent
her .back to assist the men in what might happen. _
I observed about the time that I came to the boat-side that
the re was pretty well out and the noise abated ; but in about
half-an-hour after I got on board, I heard a volley of our men’s
rearms, and saw a great smoke. This, as I understood after-
wards, was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood
at the few houses on the way; of whom they killed sixteen or
seventeen, and set all the houses on re, but did not meddle
withthe women or children.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace,
our men began to appear. They came dropping in, some and some ;
. not in two bodies, and in form, as they went, but all in heaps,
straggling here and there in such a manner that a small force
of resolute men might have cut them all off. But the dread of
_ them was upon the whole country ; and the men were amazed
and surprised, and so frightened, that I believe a hundred of
them would have ed at the sight of but ve of our men. Nor
in all this terrible action was there a man who made any
considerable defence. They were so surprised, between the
terror of the re and the sudden attack of our men in the dark,
that they knew not Which way to turn themselves ; for if they
ed one. way they were met by one party, if back again by
another ; so that. they were everywhere knocked down. Nor did
any of our men receive the least hurt, except one who sprained
his foot, and another that had one of his hands burned.
I was very angry with my nephew the captain, and indeed
with all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as
well for his acting so out of his duty as commander of the ship,
and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his
prompting rather than cooling the rage of his \men in so bloody
and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me very _
respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body of the
T key leave Madagascar. ‘ 437
poor seaman whom they had murdered in so cruel and bar-
barous a' manner, he was not master of himself, neither could
he govern his passion. He owned he should not have done so,
as he was commander of the ship ; but as he was a man, and
nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the
men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it well
enough ; so they took no notice of my dislike, . _
The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it.
Our men differed in the account of thenumber they had killed ;
but according to the best of their accounts, put all together,
they killed or destroyed about one hundred and fty people-—
men, women, and children—and left not a house standing in
the town. As for the poor fellow Thomas Jeffery, as_he was
quite dead (for his throat was so cut that his head was half
off), it would do him no service to bring him away; so they
only took him down from the tree where he was hanging by
one hand. -
However just our men thought this action, I was against '
them in it ,' and I always, after that time, told them God would
blast the voyage; for I looked upon all the blood they shed.
that night to be murder in them.- For though it was true that
the savages had killed Thomas Jeffery, yet it was as true that
Jeffery was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had violated
or debauched a young woman of theirs who came down to
them innocently, and on the faith of their public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards
on board. He said it was true that we seemed to break the
truce, but really had not; and that the war was begun the
night before by the natives themselves, who had shot at us,
' and killed one of our men without any just provocation; so
that as we were in a capacity to ght them now, we might also
be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extra-_
ordinary manner : that though the poor man had taken a little
liberty with the wench, he ought not to have been murdered,
and that in such a villainous manner ; and that they did nothing
but what was just, and 'what the laws of God allowed to be
done to murderers. , ~
Qne would think this should have been enough to have
warned us against going on shore among heathens and bar-
barians ; but it is impossible to make mankind wise but at their
own expense, and their experience seems to be always of most
use to them when it is dearest bought.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the
chief of the supercargo’s design lay at the Bay of Bengal, where,
if he missed his business outward bound, he was to go up to
China, and return to the coast as he came home.
The rst disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Persia,











SHORES OF THE PERSIAN GULF.

where ve of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side
of the gulf, were surrormded by the Arabs, and either all
killed or carried away into slavery. The rest of the boat’s
crew were not able to rescue them, and had but just time to
get off their boat. I began to upbraid them with the just
retribution of Heaven in this case; but the boatswain very
warmly told me he thought I went further in my oensures than
I could show any warrant for in Scripture, and referred to
Luke xiii. 4, where our Saviour intimates that those men on
whom the tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the
Symptoms of Mutiny. . I439 -
Galileans. .But that which indeed put me to silence in the
case was, that not one of those ve men who were now lost ' '
were of the. number of those who went on shore to the-
massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our
men could not bear to hear the word massacre with any
patience). , 1 '
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had
worse consequences than I expected; and the boatswain, who
had been the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one
time, and told me he found that I brought that affair con-
tinually upon the stage 3 that I made unjust reections upon
it, and had used the men very ill .on that account, and himself
in particular 3 that as_ I was but a passenger, and had no
command in the ship or concern in the voyage, they were not
obliged to bear it 3 that they did not know but I might have
some ill design in my head, and, perhaps to call them to an
account for it when they came to England 3 and that therefore,
unless I would resolve to have done with it, 'and also not to
concern myself any further with him or any of his affairs, he
would leave the ship, for he did not think it safe to sail with
me among them. ' _ I
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told
him that I did confess I had all along opposed the massacre
of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that I had
On all occasions spoken my mind freely about it,.though not
more upon him than any of the rest: that as to having no
command in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any
authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in things
Which publicly concerned us all 3 and what concern I had in \
the voyage was none ‘of his .business : that I was a considerable
owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived I had a right
to speak even further than I had 'yet done, and would not be
accountable to him or any one else, and began to be a little
warm with him. He made but little reply to me at that time,
and I thought the affair had been over. We were at this time
in the road at Bengal 3 and being willing to see the place, I
went on shore with the supercargo in the ship’s boat to divert
myself, and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me, and told me he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they?
\
had orders not to carry me on board any more! Any one may
guess what a surprise I was'in at so insolent a message; and I
asked the man who bade him deliver it to me? He told me
the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let
them know he had delivered his message, and that I had given
him no answer to it. '
I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told
him the story,,adding, what I presently foresaw, that there
would be a mutiny in the shi ;v and entreated him to go im-
mediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint
the vcaptain of it. But I might have spared this intelligence,
for before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was effected
on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in
a word, all the inferior ofcers, as soon as I was gone off in the
boat, came up to the quarter-deck and desired to speak with the
captain; and there the boatswain, making a long 'harangue—
for the fellow talked very well—and repeating all he had said
- to me, told the captain, in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore they were loath to use any violence 'with
me; which, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise
have done, to oblige me to have gone : they therefore thought
t to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in the
ship under his command, they would perform it well and
.faithfully ; but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain '
oblige'me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
farther ’with him. At that word “all,” he turned his face
about towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them; at which all the seamen being go
together, they cried out, “One and all! one and all 1” ' -
My nephew the captain was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was surprised, you may be
sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would 00n-
sider of the matter, but that he could do nothing in it until he
had spoken to me about it. He used some arguments with
them to show them the unreasonableness and injustice of the
thing: but it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands
round before his face, that they would all go on shore, unless
he would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more on
board the ship. ' ~
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation
to me, and did not know how I_ might take it. So he began
to talk cavalierly to them; told them that I was a very con-
,/ siderable owner of the ship, and that in justice he could not
put me out of my own'house; that this was next door to
serving me as the famous pirate Kid had done, who made the
mutiny in a ship, set the captain on share on an uninhabited
island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go into
what ship they would, if ever they came to England again, it
would cost them dear; that the ship was mine, and that he
could not put me out of it ; and that he would rather lose the
ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me so much ; so they
might do as they pleased. However, he would go on shore and
talk with me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and
perhaps they might accommodate the matter With me. But
they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have
nothing to do with me any more, neither on _board nor on
shore; and if I came on board, they would all?” on shore.
“Well,”_ said the captain, “if you are all of this 'mind, let me
go on shore and talk with him.” So away he came to me with
this account, a little after the message had been brought to me
from-the coxswain. , - .
I was very glad, to see my nephew, I must confess; for
was not without apprehensions that they would conne him ‘
by violence, set sail, and run away with the ship, and then I
had been stripped naked in a remote. country, having nothing -
.to help myself; in short, I had been in a worse case than when
I was all alone in the island But they had not come to that
length, it‘seems, to my, great satisfaction ; and when my nephew
told me what they had said to him, and how' they‘lhad sworn
and shook hands that‘ they would one and all leave the ship if
I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should not be ~
concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary
things on shore, and leave me a sufcient sum of money, and
I would nd my way to England as well as I could.‘ -
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was
no way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went' on
board the ship again, and satised the men that hisuncle had)
yielded to their importunity, and had sent for- his goods from
on board the ship ; so that matter was over in a few hours, the,
441 '
-men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course
I shouldsteer. ,
I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I
think I may call it, for I was nearly three thousand leagues by
_ sea farther off from England than I Was at my island. Only,
it is true, I might travel here by land over the Great Mogul’s
country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up
the Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the
Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon ; from thence by,
sea again to Italy, and so overland into France: and this put
' together might at least be a full diameter of the globe or more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for some
English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achen. on
the island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for ling-
land. But as I came hither without any concern with the
East India Company, so it would be difcult to go from hence
without their licence, unless with great favour of the captains
of the ships, or of the company’s factors; and to both I was
an utter stranger. .
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries,
to see the ship sail without me; a treatment I think a man in
my circumstances scarcely ever met with, except from pirates
' running away with a ship, and setting those that would not
agree with their villainy on shore. Indeed this was next door
to it both ways. However, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather, one companion and one servant; the rst was clerk
to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other
was his own servant. I took me also a good lodging in the
house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged,
some French, two Italians, or rather J ews, and one English-
' man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and that
I might not be said to _run rashly upon anything, I stayed here
above nine months, considering what course to take, and how
to manage myself. I had some English goods with me of -
Value, and a considerable sum of money ; my nephew furnishing
me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened, what-
ever might happen. _
i I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too;
and as I originally intended, I bought here some very good
diamonds, which, of all other things, were the most proper for
me in my present circumstances, because I could always carry
my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my
return to England, but none falling out to my mind, the
English merchant who lodged with me, and with whom I had
contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me one morning.
“ Countryman,” says he, “ I have a project to communicate to




"I HAD THE PLEASURE TO SEE THE SHIP SAIL \VITHOUT ME.


you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I
know, suit with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly
considered it. Here we are posted,” says he, “ you by accident,
and I by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote
from our own country 3 but it is in a country where, by us who
understand trade and business, a great deal of money is to be
got. If you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand
pounds, we will hire a ship here, the rst we can get to our
minds; you shall be captain, I’ll be merchant, and we will go
a trading voyage to China 3 for what should we stand still for?
The whole world is in motion, rolling round and round; all
' the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy
and diligent; why should we be idle? There are no drones
in the world but 'men ; why should we be of that number?”
I liked his proposal very well, and the more because it
seemed to be expressed with so much goodwill, and in so
friendly a manner. I will not say but that I might by my
loOse and-unhinged circumstances be the tter to embrace a
proposal for trade, or, indeed, for anything else; whereas,
otherwise, trade was none of my element. However, I might
' perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not my element,
rambling was, and no proposal for seeing any part of the
world which I had never seen before could Possibly come amiss
to me. '
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to
our mind; and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to
get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary
to govern the voyage and manage the sailors which we should
pick up there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain,
and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three Portu-
guese foremast men. With these we found we could do well
enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, tomake up.
There are so many travellers who have written a history of
their voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little
diversion to' anybody to give a long account of the places we
went to, and the people who inhabit there. These things
I leave to. others, and refer the reader to those journals and
travels of Englishmen, of which many I nd are published, and
more promised every day. It is enough for me to tell you that
we made this voyage to Achen; in the island of Sumatra, and
om thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares
for opium and some arrack ; the rst a commodity which bears
a great price among the Chinese, and which at that time was
very much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned
to Bengal ; and I was very well satised with my adventure.
I observe that our people in England often admire how the
ofcers which the Company send into India, and the merchants
which generally stay there, get such very great estates as they
. do, and sometimes come home with sixty or seventy thousand
Successful Trading. - 445
pounds at a time ; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall see
so much further into it, when we consider the innumerable
ports and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
be none; and much less will it be so, when we consider that
at all those places and ports where the English ships come,
there is such great and constant demands for the growth ofall
other countries, that there is a certain vent for the returns, as
well as a market abroad for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much
money by the rst adventure, and such an insight into the
method of getting more, that had I been twenty years younger,
I should have been tempted to have stayed _here, and sought
no. further for making my fortune. But what was all this to a
man on the wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough,
and came abroad more in obedience to a restless dcsire'of see-
ing the world than a covetous desire of getting init ; and
indeed I think it is with great justice that I now call it a
restless desire, for it was so. When I was at home, I was
restless to go abroad; now I was abroad, I was restless to be
at home. I say, what was this gain to me? I was rich enough
already, nor had I any uneasy desires about getting more
money; and therefore the prots of the voyage to me were
things of no great force for the prompting me forward to
further undertakings ; and I thought that by this voyage I had
made no progress at all, because I was come back, as I might
call it, to the place from whence I came, as to a home ; whereas
my eye, which, like that spoken- of by Solomon, was never
satised with seeing, was still more desirous of wandering and
seeing. I was come into a part of the world which I never '
was in before, and that part in particular which I had heard.
much of, and was resolved togsee as much of as I could; and
then I thought I might say I had seen all the world that was
worth seeing. - \
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions. I do
not name this to insist upon my own ; for I acknowledge his
were the most just, and more suited to the end of a merchant’s
life, who, when he is abroad upon adventures, is wise to stick
to that, as the best thing for him, which he is likely to get the
most money by. My new friend kept himself to the nature of
the thing, and would have been content to have gone like a
I
carrier’s horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward,
provided he could, as he called it, nd his account in it. On
the other hand, mine was the notion of a mad, rambling boy,
that never cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not
all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home,
and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable-which way to
go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who was
always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
. to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of
cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places indeed where
the Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards;
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have
not the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.
WVe were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief
difculty was in bringing me to _come into it. However,
nothing else offering, and nding that really stirring about and
trading, the prot being so great, and, as I may say, certain,
had more pleasure in it, and more satisfaction to my mind than
sitting still—which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part
of life—I resolved on this voyage too, which we made very
successfully, touching at Borneo and several islands whose
names I do not remember, and came home in about ve months.
We sold our spice, which was chiey cloves, and some nutmegs,
to the Persian merchants, who carried them away for the Gulf;
and making near ve of one, we really got a great deal of
money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me.
“Well, now,” said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my
indolent temper, “is not this better than walking about here,
like a man with nothing to do, and spending our time in star-
ing at the nonsense and ignorance of the pagans‘l” “Why,
truly,” says I, “my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a
convert to the principles of merchandising ; but I must tell
you,” said I, “by the way, you do not know what I am
doing; for if once I conquer my backwardness, and embark
heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up and down the
world till I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall
never let you lie still.” i
I But to be shert with my speculations, a little while after
this there _came in a Dutch ship from Batavia_: she was a
\
Becomes S/zz'pozemer. 447
coaster, not a European trader, and of about two hundred tons
burden; the men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that
the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with. He lay ‘
by at Bengal, and having, it seems, got money enough, or being .
willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe,_ he [gave public
notice that he would sell his ship. This came to my ears
before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great mind to
buy it 5 so I went to him and told him of it. He considered
awhile, for he was no rash man neither; but musing some
time, he replied, “_She is a little too big ; but, however, we'
will have her.” Accordingly we bought the ship, and agreeing
with the master, we paid for _her, and took possession. When
we had done so, .we resolved to entertain the men, if we could,
to join them with those we had, for the pursuing our business ;
but 'on a sudden, they having received, not their wages, but
their share of the money, not one of them was to be found. _
We inquired much about them, and at length were told that
they were all gone together by land to Agra, the great city of
the Mogul’s residence, and from thence were to travel to Surat,
and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. '
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I
missed the opportunity 'of going with them ; for such a ramble,
I thought, and in such company as would both have guarded
and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great
design 5 and I should both have seen the world and gone home-
ward'too. But I was much better satised a few days after,
when Icame to, know what sort of fellows they were ,- for, in
short, their history was, that, this man they called captain was
the gunner only, not the commander 3 that they had been a
trading voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some
of the Malays, who had killed the captain and three of his
men ; and that, after the captain was killed, these men, eleven
in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they
did, and brought her in at the'Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate
and ve men more on shore, of whom we shall hear further. '
Well, let them come by the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought ; though we did not, I confess,
examine into things so exactly as we ought, for we never in-
quired anything of the seamen, who would certainly have
faltered in their account, contradicted one another, and perhaps
I i
contradicted themselves, 0r somehow or other we should have
had reason to have suspected them. But the man showed us
a bill of sale for the ship to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or '
some such name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called
himself by that name, and we could not contradict him; and
being withal a little too unwary, or, at least, having no sus-
picion of the thing, we went through with our bargain. "
We picked up some more English seamen here after this,
and some Dutch ; and now we resolved on a second voyage to
the south-east, for 'cloves, &c. ; that is to say, among the
Philippine and ~Molucca Isles. And, in short, not to ll this
part of my story with tries, when what is yet to come is so
remarkable, I spent from rst to last six years in this country,
trading from port to port, backward and forward, and with
very good success, and was now the last year with my new
partner, going in the ship above mentioned on a voyage to
China, but designing rSt to go to Siam to buy rice.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great'while in the Straits-of Malacca and among
the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difcult seas
but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able by all our industry to nd out where it was. This forced ‘
us to make for some port, and my partner, Who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the
river of Cambodia ; for I had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the
great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam. While we were
here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there comes to
me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a gunner’s
mate on board an English East India ship which rode in the
same river, at or near the city of Cambodia. What brought
him hither we knew not ; but he comes up to me, and speak-
ing English, “ Sir,” says he, “ you are a stranger to me, and I
to y0u ; but I have something to tell you that very nearly con-
cerns you.” ' . - .
. I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at rst
I had known him, but I did not. “ If it very nearly concerns
me,” said I, “ and not yourself, what moves you to tell it
me?” “ I am moved,” says he, “by the imminent danger you
l n a Cniz‘ieal Position. ' 449
are in, and for aught I see you have no knowledge of it.” *‘ I
know no danger I am in,” said I, “but that my ship is leaky,
and I cannot nd it out ; but I propose to lay her aground to-
mOrrow, to see if I can nd it.” “But, sir,” says he, “leaky
or not leaky, nd it or not nd it, you will be wiser than to
lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have
to say to'you. Do you know, sir,” said he, “the town of
Cambodia lies about fteen leagues up this river, and there are
two large English ships about ve leagues on this side, and
three Dutch?” “Well,” said I, “and what is that to me 2”
“Why, sir,” said he, “is it for a man that is upon such
adventures as you are, to come into a port, and not examine _
rst what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal
with them? 'I suppose you do not think you are a match for
them?” I was amused very much at his discourse, but not
amazed at it, for I could not conceive what he meant; and I
turned. short upon him, and said, “ Sir, I wish you would '
explain yourself. I cannot imagine what reason I have 'to be
afraid of any company of English ships or Dutch ships. I am
no interloper. What can they have to say to me 2” He looked
like a man half angry and half pleased, and‘pausing awhile,
but smiling, “ Well, sir,” said he, “if you think yourself
secure, you must take your chance ; I am sorry your fate should
blind you against good advice; but assure yourself, if you do
not- put to sea immediately, you will the very next tide be
attacked by ve long-boats full of men; and perhaps, if you _
are taken, you will be hanged fer a pirate,~and the particulars 1
be examined afterwards. I thought, sir,” added he, “ I should
have met with a better reception than this for doing you a
piece of service of such importance.” ‘FI can never be un-
grateful,” said I, “for any service, or to any man that offers
me any kindness ; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for. However, since you
say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villainous
design on hand against me, I will go on board this minute and
put to sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we
can swim without stopping it. But, sir,” said I, “shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give me no
further light into it i” “ I can tell you but part of the story,
sir,” says he; “but I have a Dutch Seaman,~ here with me, and \
2 G
' I believe I could persuade him to tell you the rest ; but there
is scarce time for it. But the short of the story is this, the
rst part of which I suppose you know well enough—viz., that
you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain
Was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men ;‘ and
that you, or some of those who were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the
sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can
assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you
know merchant ships show but little law to pirates if they get
them into their power.” “Now you speak plain English,”
said I, “and I thank you ; and though I know nothing that
we have done like what you talk of, for I am sure we came
honestly and fairly by the ship; yet, seeing such a work is
a-doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly, I will
be upon my guard.” “Nay, sir,” says he, “do not talk of
being upon your guard; the best defence is to be out of the
danger. If you have any regard for your life, and the lives of
all your men, put to sea without fail, at high water; and as
you have a whole tide before you, you will.be gone too far out
before they can come down; for they will come away at high
water, and as they have twenty miles to come, you get near two
hours of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the
length of the way. Besides, as they are only boats, and not
ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea,
especially if it blows.” “Well,” says I, “ you have been very
kind in this ,' what shall I do for you to make you amends ’4”
“Sir,” says he, “you may not be willing to make me any
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it.
I will make an offer to you. I have nineteen months’ pay due
to me on board the ship , which I came out of England
in ; and the Dutchman that is with me has seven months’ pay
due to him. If you will make good our pay to us, we will go
along with you; _if you nd nothing more in it, we will desire
no more ; _but if we do convince you that we have saved your
life, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will
leave the rest to you.” t
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board,
and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship’s
side, my partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-

Pursuea' as a Pz'mz‘e. 451
deck, and called to me with a great deal of joy, “Oh ho ! oh
ho! we have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak!”
“Say you so?” said I; “thank God! but weigh the anchor
immediately.” “Weigh!” says he ; “what do you mean by
that'l What is the matter?” says he. “Ask no questions,”
says I; “_ but all hands to work, and weigh without losing a
minute.” He was surprised ; but, however, he called the
captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up ;
and though the tide was not quite down, yet, a little land-
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into
the cabin and told him the story at large ; and we called in the
men, and they told us the rest of it. But as it took us up a
great deal of time, so before we had done a seaman comes to
the cabin door and calls out to us that the captain bade him
tell us we were chased. “Chased!” said I 3 “by whom and
by what?” “By ve sloops or boats,” says the fellow, “ full
of men.” “Very well,” said I, “then it is apparent there is
something in it.” In the next place I ordered all our men to
be called up, and told them there was a design to seize the
ship, and to take us for- pirates ; and asked them if they would
stand by us, and by one another? The men answered cheer-
fully, one and all, that they would live and die with us. Then
I asked the captain what way he thought best for us to manage
the ght with them ,- for resist them I was resolved we would,
and that to the last drop. He said readily, that the way was
to keep them off with our great shot as long as we could, and
then to re at them with our small-arms, to keep them from
boarding us 3 but when neither of these would do any longer,
we should retire to our close quarters ,' perhaps they had not
materials to break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns
to bear fore and aft out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and
load them with musket bullets and small pieces of old iron, and
what came next to hand ; and thus we made ready for ght.
But all this while we kept out to sea, the Wind enough, and
could see the boats at a distance, being ve large long~boats,
following us with all the sail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses we could see were
English, outsailed the rest, were nearly two leagues ahead of
them, and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they
l
would come up with us. Upon which we red a gun without
ball, to intimate that they should bring-to ; and we put out a
ag of truce as a signal for parley. But they came crowding
after us till they came within shot, when we took in our white
ag, they having made no answer to it, hung out a red ag,
and red at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they
came on till they were near enough to call to them with a
speaking-trumpet which we had on board; so we called to
them, and bade them keep off at their peril. . .
It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to
come under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon
which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended
upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the
ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside, when hmediately
we red ve guns at them, one of which had been levelled so
true' as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail, and
running all to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking;
so she lay by, and had enough of. it; but seeing the foremost
boat crowd on after us, we made ready to re at her in par-
ticular. While this was doing, one of the three boats that was
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to the
boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could after-
wards see her 'take out the men. We, called again to the
foremost boat, and offered a truce to parley again, and to know
What'her business was with us; but had no answer, only she
crowded close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who .
was a very dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase-guns, and red
again at her; but the shot missing, the men in' the boat
shouted, waved their caps, and came on. But the gunner,
getting quickly ready again, red among them a second time;
one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we could easily see had done a great deal
of mischief among them ; but we, taking no notice of that, wore
the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and
ring three guns more, we found the boat was split almost to
pieces; in particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern were
shot quite away; so they handed her sail immediately, and
were in great disorder. But, to complete their misfortune, our
gunner let y two guns at them again. Where he hit them
Repel; i/ie Attack. 453
We could not tell, but we found the boat Was sinking, and
- some of the men already in the water. Upon this I immediately
manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close by our side,
with orders to pick up some of the men if they could, and save
them from drowning, and immediately 'come on board with
them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come up.
Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good
while before we could recover him. As soon as they were on
board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther
out to sea ; and we found'that when the other three boats came
up to the rst two, they gave over their chase. _
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew
not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I
apprehended, I took care that we should change our course,
and not let any one know whither we were going; so we st00d
out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European
ships, whether they were bound to China or anywhere else
within the commerce of the European nations.
When we were at sea, we began to consult With the two
seamen, and inquire, rst, what the meaning of all this should
be; and the Dutchman let us into the secret of it at once,
telling us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was
no more than a thief that had run away with her. Then he
told us that the captain—whose name too he told us, though I
do not remember it now—was treacherously murdered by the
natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of-his men; and
that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods,
where they wandered about a great while, till at length he, in
particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam '
ed to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way
from China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water ; that
he durst not come to that part of the shore where the boat was,
but made shift in the night to take the water farther off, and
the ship’s boat took him up.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
' seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest
in their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had
run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
who were gone a-cruising in her, and that they had already
taken an English ship and, two Dutch ships very richly
laden. .
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and though -
we knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said very well, if we
had fallen into their hands, and they had had such a prepos-
sion against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have
defended ourselves, or to hope/ for any good quarter at their
hands; and especially considering that our accusers had been
our judges, and that we could have expected nothing from them
but whatrage would have dictated and an ungoverned passion
have executed. And, therefore, it was his opinion we should
go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came, without
putting in at any port whatever; because there we could give
2 a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were when -
the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and,
which was more than all the rest, if we were put to the ne-
cessity of bringing it before the proper judges, we should be
sure to have some justice, and not be hanged rst and judged
afterwards. '
I was some time of my partner’s opinion, but, after a little-
more serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great
hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were
on the wrong side of the Straits of Malacca; and that, if the
alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid on every
side, as well by the Dutch at Batavia as the English elsewhere:
that if we should be taken, as it were running away, we should
even condemn ourselves, and there would want no more-evi-
dence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor’s opinion,
who said he was _of my mind, and that we should certainly be
taken. This danger a little startled my partner and all the
ship’s company, and we immediately resolved to go away to
'_ the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China, and
pursuing the rst design as to trade, nd some way or other to
dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the vessels of
the country, such as we could get. This was approved of as
I the best method for our security; and accordingly we steered
away north-north-east, keeping above fty leagues off from the
usual course to the eastward. This, however, _put us to some
\ inconveniences; for rst the winds, when we came to the dis-
tance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us,
f 'a Dangerous Condition. ‘ 455
blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the east and east-north-
east, so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and 'we .
were but ill provided with victuals for so long a run ; and,
which was still worse, there was some danger that those English
and Dutch ships whose boats pursued us, whereof some were
bound that way, might have got in before us ; and if not, some
other ship bound to China might have information of us from
them, and pursue us with the same vigour.
I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself,
including the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in
the most dangerous condition that ever I was in through all
my past life 3 for whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I
was never pursued for a thief before, .nor had I ever done
anything that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent,
much less thievish. I had chiey been my own enemy ; or, as
I may rightly say, I had been nobody’s enemy but my own.
But now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable ;
for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to
make that innocence appear ; and if I had been taken, it had
been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind, at least 'a crime
esteemed so among the people I had to do with. This made
me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do
it I knew not, or what port or place we should go to. My
partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most con-
cerned at rst, began to encourage me ; and describing to me
the several ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the
coast of Cochin China or the Bay of Tonquin, intending after-
wards to go to Macao, a place once in possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European families
resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually went
thither, in order to their going forward to China. '
Thither, then, we resolved to go 3 and accordingly, though
after a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened
for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in
the morning. And upon reection on the past circumstances
We were in, and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolved
to put into a small river, which, however, had _depth enough
of water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or by
the ship’s pinnace, come to know what ships were in any port
thereabouts. This happy step was indeed our deliverance; for
thOugh we did not immediately see any European ships in the
Bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came into the bay
two Dutch ships, and a third without any colours spread out,
but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about
two leagues’ distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same
course; andfthus we thought we saw ourselves beset with
enemies both one way and the other. The place we were in
was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by occupation
or profession; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek
of them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how
little we had to' do with them, yet it was with much difculty
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them several
ways. We were in a small river of this country, within a few
leagues of its utmost limits northward, and by our boat we
coasted north-east to the point of land which opens the great
bay of Tonquin ; and it was in this beating up along the shore
that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The
people we were among were the most barbarous of all the in-
habitants of the coast, having no correspondence with any other
nation, and dealing only in sh, and oil, and such gross
commodities ; and it may be particularly seen that they are, as
I said, the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants. Among
other customs, they have this one, that if any vessel has the
misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast, they presently
make the men all' prisoners or slaves; and it was not long
before we found a spice of their kindness this way, on the oc-
casion following.
I have observed above that our ship sprung a leak at sea,
and that we cOuld not nd it out ; and, hoWever it happened,
that, as I have said, it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy
minute of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English
ships in the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not nd the ship so
perfectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we
were at this place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy
things we had on board, which were not many, and to wash
and clean her bottom, and, if possible, to nd out where the
leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and
brought all our guns and other movable things to one side, we
tried to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom;
A Novel. Adveniune. ’ 457
but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her dry oil
ground, neither could we nd out a proper place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such
a sight, came wondering down to the shore to look at us ; and
seeing the ship lie down on her side in such a manner, and
heeling in towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who
were at work on her bottom with stages and with their boats
on the off-side, they presently concluded that the ship was cast
away, and so lay fast on the ground. On this supposition,
they all came about us in two or three hours’ time, with ten or
twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men
in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board and
plundered the ship, and if they had found us there, to have
carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever they call
him, for we knew nothing who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row round
her, they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the
ship’s bottom and sides, washing, and graving, and stopping,
as every seafaring man knows how. They stood for a while
gazing at us,'and we, who were a little surprised, could not
imagine what their design was; but, being Willing to be sure,
we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were
at work, to defend themselves with if there should be occasion.
And it was no more than need; for in less than a quarter of
an hour’s consultation, they agreed, it seemed, that the ship
was really a wreck, and that we were all at work endeavouring
to save her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats ; and
when we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by
that motion, that we were endeavouring to save some of our I
goods. Upon this they took it for granted we all belonged to
them, and away they came down upon our men, as if it had
been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened,
for we lay but in an ill posture to ght, and cried out to us to
know what they should do. ,I immediately called to the men
who worked upon the stages to slip them down and get up the
side into the ship, and bade those in the boat to row round
and come on board; and the few who were on board worked
with all the strength and hands we had to bring the ship to
rights. But, however, neither the men upon the stages nor
those in the boats could do as they were ordered, before the
Cochin-Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats
boarded our long~boat, and began to lay hold of the men as
their prisoners. * .
The rst man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a
stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never
offered to re it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I
thought. But he understood his business better than I could
teach him, for he grappled the pagan, and dragged him by
main force out of their boat into ours, where, taking him by
the ears, he beat his head so against the boat’s gunwale that
the fellow died in his hands. And in'the meantime, a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musket, and with the
butt-end of it so laid about him that he knocked down ve
of them who attempted to enter the boat. Butthis was doing
little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who, fearless because
ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves into the
' long-boat, where we had but ve men in all to defend it ; but
the following accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our
men a complete victory. .
Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside of the
ship, as well as to. pay the seams where he had caulked her to
stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat,
one lled with boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow,
and oil, and such stuff as the shipwrights use for that work;
and the man that attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle
in his hand, with which he supplied the men who were at work
with that hot stuff. Two of the enemy’s men entered the boat
just where this fellow stood, "being in the fore-sheets ; he im-
' mediately saluted them with a ladle-full of the stuff, boiling
hot, which so burned and scalded them, being half-naked, that
they roared out like bulls, and, enraged with the re, leaped
both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, “Well
done, Jack ! give them'some more of it ;” and stepping forward
himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot,
he and his man threw. it among them so plentifully, that, in
short, of all the men in the three boats, there was not one that
was not scalded and burned with it in a most frightful and
pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying, that I
a \ _ - ..l



.._.. . . \ \n. i:
.1.. . . _ 1.... ..n. J.
. a . . _ _‘Tn ...
. K
C
. . A
I).
. E
N
, O
. D
. H . . L
. I > L
I . a E
. I W
_ u
1
n,
. . . e _.i . ._
. . é: __ _An
. .o.|lllll|. l


An Easy Vieim/y. _ 459
never heard a worse noise, and indeed nothing like it: for it is
worth observing, that though pain naturally makes all people
cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation
and making noise, as different from one another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never
heard anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I
have said, I heard howl in the forest on' the frontiers of
Languedoc. _ a
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger
was imminent before, but as we got this victory without any
bloodshed, except of that man the fellow killed with his naked
hands, and which I was very much concerned at; for I was
sick of killing such poor savage wretches, even though it was
in my own defence, knowing they came on errands which they
thought just, and knew no better. And though it may be a
just thing, because necessary (for there is no necessary wicked-
ness in nature), yet I thought it was a sad life, in which we
must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to
preserve ourselves; and indeed I think so still, and I would
even now suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away the
life even of the person injuring me. And I believe all con-
sidering people, who know the value of life, would be of my
opinion; at least they would, if they entered seriously into the
consideration of it.
But to return to my story. All the while this was doing,
my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board,
had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights;
and having got the guns into their places again, the gunner
called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would
let y among them. I called back again to him, and bid him
not offer to re, for 1the carpenter would do the work with-
out him; but bade him heat another pitch-kettle, which our
cook, who was on board, took care of. But the enemy was
so terried with what they had met with in their rst attack,
that they would not come on again; and some of them who
Were farthest o', seeing the ship swim as it were upright,
began, as we suppose, to see their mistake, and gave over the
enterprise, nding it was not as they expected. Thus we got
clear of this merry ght ; and having got some rice, and some
roots and bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board
two days before, we' resolved to stay here no longer, but go
forward whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we
should be surrounded the next day with rogues enough, per--
haps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We
therefore got all. our things on board the same evening, and the
next morning we were ready to sail. In the meantime, lying
at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were not so much
concerned, being now in a ghting posture, as well as in a
sailing posture, if any enemy had presented. The next day,
having nished our work within board, and nding our ship
Was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would
have gone into the Bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform
ourselves of what was to be known concerning the Dutch ships ‘
that had been there ; but we durst not stand in there, because
we had seen seVeral ships go in, as we supposed, but a little
before ; so we kept on north-east towards the island of
‘ Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the
Mediterranean is of an Algerine man-of-war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept out north-east, as if
we Would go to the Manillas or the‘Philippine Islands; and
this we did that we might not fall into the way of any of our
European ships; and then we steered north until we came to
the latitude of 22 degrees 30 minutes, by which means we
made the island of Formosa directly, where we came to an
anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who are very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually
with us in all their agreements and bargains; which is what
we did not nd among other people, and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a
Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I
have often observed—viz., that the Christian religion always
civilises the people and reforms their manners, where it is re-
ceived, whether it works saving effects upon them or no.
‘ From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of' China
at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports
'of China where our European ships usually come ; being
....25n_. ...- . _
A Portuguese Pilot. 461
resolved, if possible, not to fall into any of their hands,
especially in this country, where, as our circumstances were,
we could not fail of being entirely ruined; nay, so great was
my fear in. particular as to my being taken by them, that I
believe rmly I would much rather have chosen to fall into the
hands of the Spanish Inquisition.- . '
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to
put into the rst trading port we should come at ,' and standing
in for the shore, a boat came _off two leagues to us, with an old
Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to be a European
ship, came to offer his services, which indeed we were very glad '
of, and took him on board; upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and
sent it back. ,
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old
man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him
about carrying us to the'Gulf of N ankin, which is the most
northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he
knew the Gulf of N ankin very well ; but, smiling, asked us
what we would do there? I told him we would sell our cargo
and purchase China wares, oalicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought
silks, &c., and so would return by the same course we came.
He told us our best port would have been to put in at Macao,
where we could not have failed of a market for our‘opium to
our satisfaction, and might for our money have purchased all -
sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at N ankin.
Not being able to put the old man out of _his talk, of which
he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were
gentlemen as well as merchants, and- that we had a mind to go
and see the great city of Pekin, and the famous court of the ‘
monarch of China. “Why, then,” says the old man, “ you
should go to N ingpo, where, by the river which runs into the
sea there, you may go up within ve leagues of the great canal.
This canal is a navigable river, which goes through the heart
of all that vast empire of China, cr0sses all the rivers, passes
some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and
goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred
and seventy leagues.” _ . '
“Well,” said I, “ Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now. The great. question is, if you can carry us up to
. a t V __ 4'
the city of N ankin, from whence we can travel to Pekin after-
wards ?” He said he could do so very well, and that there
was a great Dutch ship gone by that way just before. This
_gave me a little shock, for a Dutch ship was now our terror,
and we had much rather have met the devil, at least if he had
not come in too frightful a gure; and we' depended upon it
that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no
condition to ght them; all the ships they .trade with inthose
parts being of great burden, and of much greater force than we
were. \
The oldman found me a little confused, and under some
concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said ton me, “ Sir,
you need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch ; I suppose
they are not now at war with your nation.” “ N 0,” said I,
“that’s true; but I know not what liberties men may take
when they are-out of the reach of the law.” “ Why,” says he,
“you are no pirates; what need you fear? They will not
meddle with peaceable merchants, sure.”
If I had any blood in my body that did not y up into my
face at that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels
appointed by nature to prevent it; for it put me into the
greatest disorder and confusion imaginable. Nor was it pos-_
sible for me to conceal it so ; but the old man easily perceived it.
“Sir,” says he, “I nd you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you
think t, and depend upon it I’ll do you all the service I can.”
“Why, seignior,” said I,‘ “it is true I am a little unsettled in
my resolution at this time whither to go in particular; and I
am something more so for what you said about pirates. . I hope
there are no pirates in these seas. We are but in an ill con-
dition to meet with them, for you see we have but a small
force, and are but very weakly manned.” “Oh, sir,” says he,
.“ do not be concerned; I do not know that there have been
any pirates in these seas these fteen years, except one which
was seen, as I hear, in the Bay of Siam about a month since;
but you may be assured she is gone to the southward. Nor
was she-a ship of any great force, or t for the work. She
was not built for a privateer, but was run away with by a
reprobate crew that was on board, after the captain and some
of his men had been -murdered by the Malays at or near the
[n danger of hanging. I 463
island of Sumatra.” “ What 1” said I, seeming to know nothing
of the matter, “did they murder the captain ’l” “ N 0,” said
he; “I do not understand that they murdered him; but as
they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed
they betrayed him into the hands of the Malays Who did
murder him, and perhaps they procured them to do it.”
“Why, then,” said I, “ they deserve death as much as if they
had done it themselves.” “Yea,” says the old man, “ they do
deserve it, and they will certainly have it, if they light upon
any English or Dutch ship ; for they have all agreed together
that if they meet that rogue they will give him no quarter.”
“But,” said I to him, “ you say the pirate is gone out of those
seas. How can they meet with him'l” “Why, that’s true,”
says he, “they do say so; but he was, as I tell you, in the
Bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia, and was discovered there
by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were
left on shore when they ran away with her; and some English,
and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within a little
of taking him. N ay,” said he, “if the foremost boats had
been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, nding only two boats within reach of him, tacked
about, and red at those two, and disabled them before the
others came up ; and then, standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him,“ and so he got away. But they have
all so exact a description of the ship that they will be sure to
know her; and wherever they nd her, they have vowed to
give no quarterv either to the captain or seamen, but to hang
them all up at the yard-arm.” “What!” says I, “will they
execute them right or wrong ; hang them rst 'and judge them
afterwards 'l” “ Oh, sir !” says the old pilot, “there’s no need
to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those ; let
them tie them back to back and set them a-diving—it is no
more than they deserve.” .
I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do
me no harm, so that I turned short upon him. “Well, now,
seignior,” said I, “ this is the very reason Why I would have
you carry us up to N ankin, and not to put back to Macao, or
any other part of the country where the English or Dutch ships
come. For be it known to you, seignior, those captains of the
English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent
fellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, nor how to
behave themselves as the laws of God and nature direct; but
being proud of their ofces, and not understanding their power,
they would act the murderers to punish robbers; would take
upon them to insult men falsely accused, and determine them
guilty without due inquiry. And perhaps I may live to call
some of them to account for it, when they may be taught how
justice is to be executed ; and that no man ought to be treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
that he is the man.”
-With this I told. him that this was the very ship they
attacked, and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had
with their boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved.
I told him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the
Dutchmen served us. - I told him the reasons I had to believe
the story of killing the master by the Malays was not true, as
also the running away with the ship : but that it was all a ction
of their own to suggest that the men had turned pirates, and
they ought to have been sure it was so before they ventured to
attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them ; adding that
they would have the blood of those men whom we killed there
, in just defence to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we,
were very much in the right to go away to the north; and
that, if -he' might advise us, it should-be to sell the ship in
China, which we might very well do, and buy or build another
in the country. “And,” said he, “ though you will not get so
good a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and
all your goods back again to Bengal, or anywhere else.” I
told him I would take his advice when I came to any port
where I could nd a ship for my turn, or get any customer to
buy this. , He replied I should meet with customers enough
for the ship at Nankin, and that a Chinese junk would serve
me very well to go back again; and that he would procure me
people both to buy the one and sell the other. “ Well, but,
seignior,” says I, “as you say they know'the ship so well, I
may perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to
bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible broil, and per-
haps to be murdered in cold blood ; for wherever they nd the
~ship, they will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this
' .i Arrives at Nankz'n. 465
was the ship, and so innocent men may probably be overpowered
and murdered" “Why,” says the old man, “I will nd out
a way to prevent that also 3 for as I know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they'pass by,
I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them
know that they had been so much in the wrong: that thou "l1
the-people who were on board at rst might run away with the
ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates ,- and
that, in particular, these were not the men that rst went off
with the ship, but innocently bought her for their trade : and
I am persuaded they will so far believe me as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come.” “ Well,” says I ; “ and
will youv deliver one message to them from me 2” “Yes, I
will,” says he, “if you'will give it under your hand in writing,
that I may _be able to prove that it came from you, and not out
of my own head.” 'I answered, “ That I would readily give it
him under my hand.” So I took a pen, and ink, and paper,
and wrote at large the story of assaulting me with the long-
boats, &c.; the pretended reason of it, and the unjust cruel
design of it ; and concluded to the commanders, that they had
done what they not only should have been ashamed of, but
also, that if ever they came to England, and I lived to see
them there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my
country were not grown out of use before I arrived there. My
old pilot read this over and over again, and asked me several
times if I would stand to'it‘l I answered, “I would stand to _
it as long as I had anything left in the world 3” being sensible
that I should one time or other nd an opportunity to put it
home to them. But we had no occasion ever to let the pilot
carry this letter; for he never went back again.
While these things Were passing between us, by way of
discourse, we went forward directly for N ankin, and in about
thirteen days’ sail came to an anchor at the south-west point of
the great ‘Gulf of Nankin, where, by the wany came by acci-
dent to understand that two Dutch ships were gone the length
before me, and that I should certainly Ifall'into their hands. I
consulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as
much at a loss as I was, and would very gladly have been safe
on, shore almost anywhere. However, I was not in such per-
plexity neither; but I asked the old pilot if there was no creek
2 H _ , _ . . ,
Robinson Crusoe.
or harbour which I might put 'into, and pursue my business
with the Chinese privately, and hem no danger of the enemy?
He told me if I would sail to the southward about two-and-
forty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where
the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their
progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and '
where no European ships ever put in; and if I thought to put
‘ in there, I might consider what further'course to take when I
.~._
was ashore. He‘confessed, he said, it was not a place for
merchants, except that at some certain times they had a kind
of a fair there, when the merchants from Japan came over to
buy the Chinese merchandise. '
We all agreed to go back to this place. The name of the
i ‘ - port, as he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not
- pronounced it, as above, Quinchang. _ -
’ particularly remember it, having lost this, together with the
names of many other places set down in a little pocket-book~
which was spoiled by the water, by an accident which I will
relate in its order; but this I remember, that the Chinese or
Japanese merchants we corresponded with called -it by a dif-
ferent name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and
As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place,
we weighed the next day, having" only gone twice ashore where
we were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the
people of the country were very civil to us, and brought
abundance'of things to sell to us ; I mean of provisions, plants,
roots, tea, rice, and some fowls ; but nothing without money.
We did not come to the other port (the wind being con-
trary) for ve days ; but it was very much to our satisfaction;
and I was joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot
safe on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it was
possible to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way, ‘
though not every way to our satisfaction, we would never set
one foot on board that unhappy vessel more; and, indeed, I
must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life that
ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does
the Scripture say, “. The fear of man bringeth a snare :” it is a
life of death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that
it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits sink, and all the ‘
\
Cypressed \63/ .Fear. 467
vigour of nature, which usually supports men under other
afictions, and is present to them in the greatest exigencies,
fails them here. .
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by
heightening every danger; representing the English and Dutch
captains .to be men incapable of hearing reason, or of dis-
tinguishing between honest men and rogues; or between a
story calculated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on
purpose to deceive, and. a true genuine account of our whole
voyage, progress, and design. For we might many ways have
convinced any reasonable creatures that we were not pirates:
the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our frankly
showing ourselves, and entering into such and such ports ; and
even our. very manner, the 'force we had, the number of men,
the few arms, the little ammunition, short provisions ; all these
would have served to convince any men that we were no'
pirates. The opium and other goods we ‘had on board would
make it appear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen,
who, it was said, had the names of all the men that were in
the ship, might easily see that We were a mixture of English,
Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board.
These, a' many other particular circumstances, might have
made it eVIdent to the understanding of any commander, whose
hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But fear,
that blind, useless passion, worked another way, and threw us
into the vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set
the-imagination at work to form a thousand terrible things, that
perhaps might never happen. We rst supposed, as indeed
everybody had related to us, that the seamen on board the
English‘and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so
enraged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our beating
- off their boats and escaping, that they would not give them-
selves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no, but
would execute us off-hand, as we call it, without giving us any
room for a defence. We reected that there really' was so
much apparent evidence before them, that they'would scarce
inquire after any more; as, rst, that the ,ship was certainly
the same, and that some of the seamen among them knew her,
and had been on board her ; and, secondly, that when We had
intelligence at the river of Cambodia that they were coming
down to examine us,.we fought their boats and ed: so that
we made no doubt that they were as fully satised of our being
pirates as we were satised of the contrary; and, as I often
said, I know not but I should have been apt to have taken
those circumstances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and
my case was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting all
the crew to pieces, without believing, or perhaps considering,
what they might have to offer in their defence. ‘
But let that be how 'it will, those were our apprehensions;
and both my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters and yard-arms—that is to say, gibbets ; of
ghting, and being taken; of killing, and being killed: and
one night I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the
Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their
seamen down, that I struck my double st against the side of
the cabin I lay in with such a force as wounded my hand most
grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the esh;
so that it not only waked me out of my sleep, but I was once
afraid I should have lost two of my ngers.
Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might
meet with from them if we fell into their hands. Then the
story of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Dutch
might perhaps torture us, as they did our countrymen there,
and make some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess
those crinies they never were guilty of, or own themselves and
all of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with
a formal appearance of justice ; and that they might be tempted
to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth
foilr or ve thousand pounds altogether. ‘
These things tormented me, and my partner too, night and
day; nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no
authority to act thus; and if we had surrendered prisoners to
them, they could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us,
but would be accountable for it when they came to their own
country. This, I say, gave me no satisfaction ; for if they were
to act thus with us, what advantage would it be to us that they
should be called to an account for it? or if we were rst to be
murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us to have them
punished when they came home?
I cannot refrain from taking notice here What reections I
now had upon the vast variety of my particular circumstances ;
how hard I thought it was that'I, who had spent forty years in
a life of continual difculties, and was at last come, as it were,
to the port or haven which all men drive at, viz., to have rest
and plenty, should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own
unhappy choice; and'that I, who had escaped so many dangers
in my youth, should now come to be hanged in my old age,
and in so remote a place, for a crime I was not in the-least
inclined to, much less guilty of, and in a place and circum-
stance where innocence was not like to be any protection at all
to me.
After these thoughts, something of religion would come in;
and I would be considering that this seemed to me to be a
disposition of immediate Providence, and I ought to look upon
it and submit to it as such; that although I was innocent as to
men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker; and I
ought to look in and examine what other crimes in my life
were more obvious to me, and for which Providence might
justly inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I
ought to submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it
had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place,
and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions:
that I would not be taken to be barbarously used by a parcel
of merciless wretches in cold blood; that it were much better
to have fallen into the hands of the savages, who were men-
eaters, and _who, I was sure, would feast upon me when they
had taken me, than among those who would perhaps glut their
rage upon me by inhuman tortures and barbarities ; that in the
case of the savages, I always resolved to die ghting to the last
gasp ; and why should I not do so now, seeing it was much
more dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling into these
men’s hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men;
for the savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till
he was dead, and killed him rst, as we do a bullock; but that
these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. When-
ever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself,;into a
kind of fever with the agitation of a supposed ght; my blood
would boil and my eyes sparkle as if I was engaged; and I
always resolved to take no quarter at their hands, but even,at
last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship and
all that was in her, and leave them but little booty to boast of.
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these
things were to our thoughts while we were at sea, the greater
was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore ; and my
partner told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy load
upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that
he was not able to stand long under it ; but that the Portuguese
pilot came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared,
the ground before him appearing all smooth and plain: and
truly it was so ; we were all like men who had a load taken off
their backs. For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as I said
above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. 'When
we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got'
us a lodging and a warehouse for our goods; which, by the
way, was much the same. It was a little house or hut, with a
larger house adjoining to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed
round with large canes to keep out pilfering thieves, of which,
it seems, there were not a few in that country. However, the
magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we had a soldier with
‘a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at our door;
to whom we allowed a pint of rice, and a little piece of money,
about the value of threepence, per day; so that our goods were
kept very safe. ' ’
‘ The fair or mart usually kept at this place had been over
some time; however, we found that there were three or four
junks in' the river, and two J apanners—I mean ships from
J apan—ewith goods which they had bought in \ China, and
were not gone away, having Japanese merchants on shore.
The rst thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to
get us acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who
were in the town, and who had been there some time, con-
verting the people to Christianity; but we the ht they made
but poor work of it, and made them but sorry Christians when
.they had done. However, thatv was none of our business. lOne
of these was a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon.
He was a jolly, well-conditioned man, very free in his conver—
sation ; not seeming so serious and graveas the other two did,
one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but
\
4
The Missionary Priests. 471
Father' Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, and very
agreeable company. The other two were more reserved, seemed
rigid'and austere, and applied seriously to'the work they came \
about—viz., to talk with and insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants wherever they had opportunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though I must confess the con—
version, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so
far from the true conversion required to bring heathen people ‘
to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more
than letting them know the name of Christ,~ and say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which
they understand not, and to cross themselves, and the like;
yet it must be confessed that these religionists, whom we call
missionaries, have a rm belief that these people will be saved,
and that they are the instruments of it. And on this account
they undergo, not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the
hazards of living in such places, but oftentimes death itself,
with the most violent tortures, for the. sake of this work ; and
it would be a great want of charity in 'us, whatever opinion we
have of the work itself, and the manner of their doing it, if
we should not have a .good opinion of their zeal, who under- ’
took it with so many hazards, and who have no prospect of
the least temporal advantage to themselves.
But to return to my story. This French priest, Father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the
mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese _
emperor, and waited only for another priest, who was ordered
to come to him from Macao, to go along with him; and we
scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to go that
journey, telling me how he would show me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and, among the rest, the greatest
city in the world—“ a city,” said he, “ that your London and
our Paris put together cannot be equal to.” This was the city
of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great, and innitely full of
people; but as I looked on those things with different eyes
from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in the course of my travels to speak more
particularly of them.
But, rst, I come to my friar or. missionary. Dining with
him one day, and being very merry together, I showed some
I
little inclination to go with him; and he pressed me and my
' partner very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to con-
sent. - “ Why, Father Simon,” says my partner, “why should
you desire our company so much? You know we are heretics,
and you do not love us, nor can you keep us company with
any pleasure.” “Oh,” says he, “you may perhaps be good
Catholics in time ; my business here is to convert heathens, and
who knows but I may convert you too '1” “ Very well, father,”
said I ; “ so you will preach to us all the way 2” “ I won’t be
troublesome to' you,” says he ; “ our religion does not divest us
of good manners ; besides,” says he, “we are here like country-
men ; and so we are, compared to the place we are in; and if
you are Huguenots and I a Catholic, we may all be Christians
'at last ; at least,” said he, “ we are all gentlemen, and we may
converse so, without being uneasy to one another.” I liked
this part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils ; but this
Father Simon did not come up to his character by a great deal;
for though Father Simon had no appearance of a criminal
levity‘in him, yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict
- piety, and sincere affection to religion that my other good
ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said so much.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him; we had something else before
us at rst, for we had all this while our ship and our merchan-
_ disc to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful what we
should do, for we were now in a place of very little business;
and once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam
and the city of N ankin. But Providence seemed now, as I
thought, more visibly than ever to concern itself in our affairs ;
and I was encouraged from this very ,time to think I should
one way or other get out of this tangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the
least view of the manner; and when I began sometimes to
think of it, could not imagine by what method it was to be done.
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our way a little;
and the rst thing that offered was, that our old Portuguese
pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who began to inquire
what goods we had; and in the rst place he bought all our
opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us in gold
by weight; some in small pieces of their own coin, and some
in small wedges of about ten or eleven ounces each. While
we were dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head
that he might perhaps deal with us for the ship too, and I
ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He shrunk up
his shoulders at it when it was rst proposed to him, but in a
few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to
make to me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity







l"
of goods of us when he had no thought of proposals made to
him of buying the ship,.and that, therefore, he had not money
enough to pay for the ship ; but if I would let the same men
who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to
go to Japan, and would send them from thence to the Philip-
pine Islands with another loading, which he would pay the
freight of before they went from-Japan; and that at their
return he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his proposal,
and so eager did‘my head still run upon rambling, that I could
not but begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him,
and to sail from the Philippine Islands away to the South
Seas; and accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he
would not hire us to the Philippine Islands and discharge us '
there. He said, N 0, he could not do that, for then he could
not have the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us
in Japan, he said, at the ship’s return. Well, still I was for
taking him at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner,
wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing the
dangers as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people ; likewise those of the Spaniards
at the Philippines, more false, more cruel, and more treacher-
ous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion, the
rst thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of the
ship, and with his men, and-know if they were willing to go to
Japan. And while I was doing this, the young man whom, as
I said, my nephew had left with me as my cempanion for my
travels, came to me and told me that he thought that voyage
promised very fair, and that~there was a great prospect of
advantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it; but
that if I would not, and would give him leave, he would go as .
_ a merchant, or how I pleased to' order him; that if ever he
' came to England, and I was there and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, and it should be as much
mine as I pleased. Iwas really loath to part with him; but
considering the prospect of advantage, which was really con-
siderable, and that he was a young fellow as likely to do well
in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go ; but rstI told
him I would consult my partner, and give him an answer the
next day. My partner and I. discoursed about it, and my
partner made a most generous offer. He told me, “ You know
it has been an unlucky ship, and we both resolve not to go to
sea in it again. If your steward (so he called my man) will
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him,
and let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in
England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall account
for one-half of the prot's'of the ship’s freight to us, the other
shall be his own.” ' ~
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my: young
man, made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer
him the same ; and all the ship’s company being'willing to go
Gets rid of the Ship. 475
with him, we made over half the ship to‘ him in property, and
took a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other ;
and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a
very punctual, honest man to him; protected him at Japan,
and got him a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans
in general have not lately obtained ; paid him his freight very
punctually, sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and
China wares, and a supercargo of their- own, who, trafcking
with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and
a great quantity of cloves and other spices. And there he was
not only paid his freight very well, and at a very good price,
but not being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant fur-
nished him with goods on his own account; and-with some
money; and some spices of his. own which he brought with him,
he went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold
his cargo very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance at
Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship ; and the governor of
Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, in America, on the coast
of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land there, and to travel
to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all???
his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco v‘ery happily, andit
there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained allow- “
ance to travel by land to Portobello, he found means, somehow '
or other, to get to Jamaica with all his treasure, and about
eight years after came to England exceeding rich: of which I
shall take notice in its place. In the meantime, I return to our '
particular affairs. .
Being now to part with the ship and ship’s company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should
give to the two men‘ that gave us such timely notice of the
- design against us in the river of Cambodia. The truth was,
they had done us a considerable service, and deserved well at
our hands ; though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too; for as they believed the story of our being pirates, and
that we had really run away with the ship, they came down to
'us, not only to betray the design that was formed against us,
but to go' to sea with us as pirates; and one of them con-
fessed afterwards, that nothing else but the hopes of going
arroguing brought him 'to do it. However, the service they did .
us was not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to he
grateful to them, I rst ordered the money to be paid them
which they said was due to them onv board their respective
ships; that is to say, the Englishman nineteen months’ pay,
and the Dutchman seven; and over and above that, I gave each
of them a small sum of money in gold, which contented them
very well. Then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship,
the gunner being now made second mate and purser ; the
Dutchman I made boatswain: so they were both very well
pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen,
and verystout fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
banished and remote from my own country at Bengal, where
I had many ways to get home for my money, what could 'I
think of myself now, when I had got about a- thousand leagues
farther off from home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of
prospect of return? All we had for it was this, that in about
four months’ time there was to be another fair at the place
where we were; and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manufactures of the country, and Withal might pos-
sibly nd some Chinese _junks or vessels from Tonquin that
would be vto be sold, and would carry us and our goods whither
we pleased. This I liked very well, and reselved to wait;
. besides, as our particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any
English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an
opportunity to load our goods and get passage to some other
~ place in India nearer home: Upon these hopes we resolved to
continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
journeys into the country. First we went ten days’ journey to
the city of Nankin: a city well worth seeing indeed. They
say it has a million of people in it ; which, hewever, I do not
believe. It is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight,
and crossing one another in direct lines, which gives the gure
of it great advantage. But when I come to compare the miser-
able people of these countries with ours—their fabrics, their
manner of living, their government, their religion, their wealth,
and their glory (as some call it)—I must confess I do not so
much as think it is Worth naming, or worth my while to write
of, or any that shall come after me to read. It is very observ-
- able that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the
ceremonies, the government, the manufactures, the commerce,
Opinion of China. ‘ 477
and conduct of these people ; not that it is to be wondered at,
or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, but because, having rst
a true notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness
and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to nd
any such things so far off. Otherwise, what are their build-
ings to the palaces and royal buildings .of Europe? What is
their trade to the universal commerce of England, ‘ Holland,
France, and Spain? What are their cities-to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an innite
variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few junks
and barks, to our navigation, our merchant eets, our large and
powerful navies‘l Our city of London has more trade than all
their mighty empire. One English, or Dutch, or French man-
of-war of eighty guns would ght and destroy all the shipping
of China. But the greatness _of their wealth, their trade, the
power of their government, and the strength of their armies,
are surprising to us, because,‘ as I have said, considering them
as a barbarous nation of pagans, little better than savages, we
did not expect such things among them; and this, indeed, is
the advantage ‘with which all their greatness and power is
represented to us. Otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; for
what I have said of their ships may be said of their armies and
troops. All the forces of their empire, though they were to
bring two millions of men into the eld together, would be
able to do nothing but ruin the country and starve themselves.
. If they were to besiege a strong town in Flanders, or to ght a
disciplined army, one line of German cuirassiers or French
cavalry would overthrow all the horse of China. A million of
their foot could not stand before one embattled body of our
infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were
to be not one to twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if I\
say that 30,000 German or English foot, and 10,000 French
horse, would fairly defeat all the forces of China. And so of -
our fortied towns, and of the art of our engineers in assaulting
and defending towns. There is not a fortied- town in China
could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of
a European army; and, at the same time, all the armies in
China could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it
' was not starved, no, not in a ten years’ siege; They have re*~ -
arms, it is true, but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain
in going off. They have powder, but it is of no strength.
Their armiesare badly disciplined, and want skill to attack, or
temper to retreat; and therefore, I must confess, it seemed
strange to me, when I came home and heard our people say
such ne things of the power, riches, glory, magnicence, and
trade of the Chinese ; because I Saw and knew that they were
a contemptible herd'or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, sub
jected to a government qualied only to rule such a people;
and were not its distance inconceivany great'from Muscovy,
and the Muscovite empire in a manner as rude, impotent, and
ill-governed a crowd of slaves as they, the Czar of Muscovy
might with much ease drive them all out of their country, and
conquer them in one campaign. And had the Czar—who I
since hear is a growing prince, and begins to appear formid-
able in the world—fallen this way instead of attacking the
warlike Swedes (in which attempt none of the powers of
Europe would have envied or interrupted him), he might by
this time have been Emperor of China, instead of being-beaten
by' the King of Sweden at N arva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their grandeur, so
their navigation, commerce, and husbandry are imperfect and
impotent, compared to the same things in Europe ; also their
knowledge, their learning, and their skill in the sciences. They
have globes and spheres, and a snatch of the knowledge of
the mathematics; but when you~ come to inquire into their
, knowledge, how shortsighted are the wisest of their students!
They know nothing of the motions of the heavenly bodies;
and-are so grossly and absurdly ignorant, that when the sun is
eclipsed, they think a great dragon has assaulted it, and is
going to run away with it ; and they fall a clattering with all
the drums and kettles in the country, to frighten the monster
away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.
' As this is the only excursion of this kind which I have made'
in all the account I have given of my travels, so I shall make no
.more descriptions of countries and people; it is nOne of my
, business, or any part of my design ; but give an account of my
_ own adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a
long variety of changes, which perhaps few that come after me
will have heard the like of. Lshall therefore say very little of
all the mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people I
\
Resolves to visit Pekin. - 479
have yet to pass through more than relates to ,my own story,
and which my concern among them will make necessary.
I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China,
about the latitude of 30 degrees north of the line, for we
were returned from N ankin. I had indeed a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of
going away being set, and the other missionary who was to go
with him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we
should resolve either to go or not to go ; so I referred him to my
partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at length resolved
it in the afrmative, and we prepared for our journey. We set
out with very good advantage as to nding the way; for we
got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins—a
kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate in the province where
they reside, and who take great state upon them, travelling
with great attendance, and with great homage om the people,
who are sometimes greatly imvaerished by them, because all
the countries they pass through are obliged to furnish provisions
for them and all their attendants. That which I particularly
observed in our travelling with his baggage was this, that
though we received suicient provisions both for ourselves and
' our homes from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay foreverything we had after the market
price of the country, and the mandarin’s steward, or commis-
sary of the provisions, collected it duly from us; so that our
travelling in the retinue of the mandarin, though it was a very
' great kindness to us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but
was indeed a great advantage to him, considering there were
above thirty other people travelling in the same manner besides
us, under the protection of his retinue, or, as we may call it,
under his convoy. This, I say, was a great advantage to him,
for the country furnished all the provisions for nothing, and he
took all our money for them.
We were ve-and-twenty days travelling to Pekin, through‘a
country innitely populous, but I think badly cultivated ; the
husbandry, the economy, and the way of living miserable,
tho'ughthey boast so much of the industry of the people. I
say miserable, and so it is, if we who understand how to live
were to endure it, or to compare it With our own; but not so
to .these poor wretches who know no other. The pride of
these people is innitely great, and exceeded by nothing but
their poverty, which adds to that which I call their misery.
And I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothing, so they
desire nothing; whereas these are. proud and insolent, and in
the main are mere beggars and drudges. Their ostentation is
inexpressible, and is chiey shown in their clothes and build-
ings, in keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which
is to the last degree ridiculous, their contempt of all the world
' but themselves.
I must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterWards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of' Grand Tartary than here; and
yet the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very con-
venient for travellers; but nothing was more awkward to me
than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent people in the
midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their
famed ingenuity-is no more. ‘And my friend Father Simon
and I used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of these people. For example, coming by the
house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him,
about ten leagues off the city of N ankin, we had rst of all the -
Ihonour to ride with the master of the house about two miles.
The 'state he rode. in was a perfeqt Don Quixotism, being a
I mixture of pomp and poverty, His habit was very proper for
a scaramouch or merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with all
the tawdry and trapping of a fool’s coat, such as hanging
sleeves, tassels, and cuts’ and slashes almost on every side. It
covered a taffeta vest, as greasy as a butcher’s, and which testi-
ed that his honour must needs be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as
in England might sell for about thirty or forty shillings ; and
he had. two slaves following him on foot to- drive the poor-
creature along. He had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured
the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail;
and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants,
going from the city to his country seat, about half-a-league
before us. We travelled on gently, but this gure of a gentle-
.man rode away before us, and we stopped at a village about an
.hour to refresh up. When we came by the country seat of
\
“Adm-Cw...“
I . .... ...m
2 ~_ \
.\ .\.
.... ..L
....
.; x. l w. . . I 1.1
. _
s
0
§
\
0
A
.

. ....c(\
I s .







































































































l4
L.
4
.... 1....-.
......s.

i;
5%.
as
A


.-.




MANDARIN.
NESE
A CHI
0<
this great man, we 'saw him in a little place before his door
eating his repast. ' It was a kind of a garden, but he was. eaSy
to be seen ; and we were given to understand that the more we
looked at him the better he would be pleased. ~ He sat under
a tree something like the palmetto, which effectually shaded
him over the head; and on the south side, but under the tree
also, was placed a large umbrella, which made that part look
' well enough. He sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being
a heavy corpulent man, and had his meat brought him by two
women slaves. He had two more, one of whom fed the squire
with a spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
scraped off what he let fall upon his worship’s beard and taffeta
vest. - ' . .
Thus leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really
pitied and contemned him, we pursued our journey ; only
Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform himself what ,
dainties this country justice had to feed on in all his state.
These he had the honour to' taste of, and found them to be
a mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a
little bag lled with green pepper,and another plant which
they have there, something like our ginger, but smelling like
musk, and tasting like mustard. this was put together,
and a small piece of lean mutton boiled in it ; and this was his
worship’s repast. Four or ve servants more attended at a
distance, who we supposed would have to eat of the same after
their master; - _ .
As for our mandarin with Whom we travelled, he was re-
spected as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and
attended in all his appearances with such pomp that I saw little
of him but at a distance. But this I observed, that there was
4 not a horse in his retinue but that our' carriers’ packhorses in
England seemed to me to look much better; but they were so
covered with equipage, mantles, trappings, and such like
trumpery, that we could scarce see anything but their feet and
their heads as they went along. ~
- I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity '
that I have given an account of being over, I had no anxious
thoughts about me, which made this journey-the pleasanter to
me ; nor had I any ill accident attended me, only in passing
2 I
or fording a small river, my horse fell, and made 'me free of
the country, as they call it—that is to say, threw me in. The
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it
because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set down the
names of several people and places which I had occasion to
remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss as
to- the names of some of the places I touched at in this journey.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me but
the youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to
attend me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and
diligent ; and my partner had nobody with him but one servant,
who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
desirous to see the court, we bore his charges for his company,
and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the language
of the country, and spoke good French and a little English.
And indeed this old man was a most useful implement to us
everywhere ; for we had not been above a week at Pekin when
he came laughing: “Ah, Seignior Inglese,” says he, “I have
‘ something to tell you which will make your heart glad.” “ My
heart glad!” says I; f‘ what can that be? I don’t know any-
thing in this country can either give me joy or grief to any
great degree.” “ Yes, yes,” said the old ' man in broken
English, “make you glad, me sorrow.” “ Sorry,” he would
have said. This made me more inquisitive. “Why,” said I,
“will it make you sorry?” “Because,” said he, “ you have
brought ‘me here twenty-ve days’ journey, and will leave me
to go back alone; and which way shall I get to my port after-
wards, without a ship, without a horse, without pecune ?”—so
he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had
abundance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there
was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the
city, preparing to set out on their journey by land to Muscovy,
within four or ve weeks ; and he was sure we would take the
opportunity to go with them, and leave him behind to go back
all alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and
had scarce power to speak to him for some time ; but at last I
turned to him. -“ How do you know this?” said I : “are you
I sure it is true ?”. “Yes,” says he; “ I met this morning in the
His way opens up. i I 483'
street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one you
call a Grecian, who is among them. He came last from
Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly
knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go
with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Volga to
Astracan.” “Well, seignior,” says I, “ do not be uneasy about
being left to go back alone. If this be a method for my return
to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at
all.” We then went to consult together what was to be done,
and I asked,my partner what he thought of the pilot’s news,
and whether it would suit with his affairs? He told me he
would do just as I would ; for he had settled all his affairs so
well at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands, that as
we had made a good voyage here, if he could invest it in China
silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carriage,
he would be content to go to England, and then make his
voyage back to Bengal by the Company’s ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that, if our Portuguese
pilot would go 'with us, we would bear'his charges to Moscow,
or to England if he pleased. Nor, indeed, were we to be
esteemed over-generous in that part either if we had not
rewarded him further, the service he had done us being really
worth more than that; for he had not only been a pilot to us
at see, but he had been like a broker for us on shore; and his
procuring for us theJapan merchant was some hundreds of
pounds in our pockets; So we consulted together about it, and
being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was
a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a
quantity of coined gold, which, as I computed it, came to about
£175 sterling, between us, and to bear all his charges, both
for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let
him know what we had resolved. I told him he had com-
plained of our being willing to let him go back alone, and I
was now about to tell him we were resolved he should not go
back at all ; that as we had resolved to go to Europe with the
caravan, we resolved also he should go with us; and that we
called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and said it-
was a long journey, and that he had no pecans to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. -We told ‘
him we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do
something for him that should let him see how sensible we
were of the service he had done us, and also how agreeable he
was to us ; and then I told him what we had resolved to give
him here, which he might lay out as we would do'our own:
and that as for his charges, if he would go with us, we would
set him safe ashore, life and casualties excepted, either in
Muscovy or England, which he would, at our own charge,
except only the carriage of his goods. He received the pro-
posal like a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the whole world; and so, in short, we all prepared for
our journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the
other merchants: they had many things to do, and instead of
being ready in ve weeks, it was four months and some odd'
days before all things“ were got together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set
out from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone“ ex-
press back to the port where We had rst put in, to dispose of
some goods which .We had left there; and I, with a Chinese
merchant whom I had some knowledge of at N ankin, and Who
came to Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nankin, where I
bought ninety pieces of ne damasks, with about two hundred
pieces of other very ne silks of several sorts, some mixed with
gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against my partner’s
return. Besides this, we bought a very‘ large quantity of raw
silk, and some other goods ; our cargo amounting, in these
goods only, to about £3500 sterling; which, together with tea
and some ne calicoes, and three camel-loads of nutmegs and
cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those
we rode upon, which, with two or three spare horses, and two
horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty~six
camels and horses in our retinue. .
The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between three and four hundred horse, and upwards of
one hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided
for all events; for as the Eastern caravans are subject to be
attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars ; but they
are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous
' when. they prevail.
Starts for Mnseovy. , 485
The company consisted of people of several nations, ' but
chiey Muscovites, for there were above sixty of them mer-.
' chants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were
Livonians ; ‘and, to our particular satisfaction, ve of them were
Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experience in
business, and men of very good substance. ‘
' When we had travelled one day’s journey, the guides, who
were ve in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants—
that is to say, all the passengers except the servants—to a great
council, as they called it. At this council, every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not
’ otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting
horses, and the like. And here they constituted the journey,
as they call it—viz., they named the captains and oicers to
draw us all up, and give the word of command in case of an
attack, and give every one their turn of command. Nor was
this forming us into order any more than what .we found
needful upon the way, as shall be observed in its place.
The road all on this side of the country is very populous,
and is full of potters and earth-makers—that is to say, people
that temper the earth for the China ware ; and as I was coming
along, our Portuguese pilot, who had always something or other
to say to make us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he
would show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-humo'ured _
things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing which was
not to be seen in all the world beside. II was very importunate
to know what it was. At last he told-me it was a gentleman’s
house built all with China ware. “Well,” says I, “ are not
the materials of their buildings the product- of their own I
' ocuntry ; and so it is all China ware, is it not?” “ N o, no,”
says he ; “ I mean it is a house all made of China ware, such
as you call it in England; or, as it is called in our country,
porcelain.” “ Well,” says I, “ such a thing may be ; how big
is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can, We
will buy it.” “ Upon a camel!” says the old pilot, holding up
both ’his hands ; “why, there is a family of thirty people
in it.’ ‘
I was then curious indeed to see it ; and when I came to it,
it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house
.built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster; but all
the plastering was really China ware—that is to say, it was
plastered with the earth that makes China ware. The outside,
which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very
well, perfectly white, and painted with blue gures, as the
large China Wars in England is painted, and hard as if it had
been burned. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wain-
scot, were lined with hardened and painted tiles, like the little
square tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all made of the
nest China, and the gures exceedingly ne indeed, with
> extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold, many tiles
\ .
. where the tiles met.-
making but one gure, but joined so articially, the mortar
being made of- the samejearth, that it was very hard to see
The oors of the rooms were of the same
composition, and as hard as the earthen oors ,we have in use
in several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Notting-
hamshire, Leicestershire, &c. ; as hard as stone, and smooth,
but not. burned and painted, except some small rooms, like
closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the same tile.
The ceiling and all the plastering work in the whole house
were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered
with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black. This was
a China warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be called so ;
and had I not been upon the journey, I could have stayed some
days to see and examine the particulars of it. They told me
there were fountains and sh-ponds in the garden, all paved on
the bottom and sides with the same ; and ne statues set up
in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth,
and burned whole. ‘ '
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be
allowed to excel in it ; but I am very sure they excel in their
accounts of it ; for they told me such incredible things of their
performance _in crockery-ware, for such it is, that I cannot to
relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in par-
ticular, of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle
and masts and sails in earthenware, big enough to carry fty
men. If they had told me he launchedit, and made a voyage
to Japan in it, I might have said something to it indeed ;‘ but
as it was, I knew the whole of the story, which was, in short,
asking pardon for the word, that the fellow lied ; so I smiled,
and said nothing to it.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for
which the leader of it for the day ned me about the value of
three shillings, and told me if it had been three days’ journey
without the wall, as it was three days within, he must have
ned me four times as much, and made me ask pardon the
next council day. I promised to be more orderly; and,
indeed, I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all
together were absolutely necessary for our common safety.


In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for
a fortication against the Tartars ; and a very great work it is,
going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or Where, if they did,no
wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a
thousand English miles, but that the country is ve hundred in
a straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without
measuring the windings and turnings it takes. It is about
four fathoms high, and as many thick in some places. '
I stood ’still an hour or thereabouts, without trespassing our
orders, for so long the caravan was in passing the gate; I say,
I stood still an hour to look at it on every side, near and far
off, I mean that within my view ; and the guide of our caravan,
who had been extolling it for the wonder of the 'world, was
mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a
most excellent thing to keep out the Tartars ; which he
happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a
compliment. But the old pilot laughed : “ Oh, Seignior
Inglese,” says he, “you speak in colours.” “ In colours!” said
I; “ What do you mean by that ?” “ Why, you speak What
looks white this way“, and black that way—gay'one way, and
' dull another. You tell him it is a good wall to keep out
Tartars ; you tell “me by that it is good for nothing but to keep
out Tartars,. or it keep out none but Tartars. I under-
stand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand you,” says he ; ‘f but
Seignior Chinese understood you his own way.” “ Well,” says
I, _“ seignior, do you think it would stand out an army of our
country people, with a good train of artillery ; or our engineers,
with two companies of miners? Would not they batter it
' down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia; or
_ blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that there should be
no sign of it left?” “ Ay, ay,” says he, “ I know that.” The
Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him
leave to tell him a few days after, for we Were then almost out
of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after-
ward ; but when he knew ‘what I had said, he was dumb all
the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his ne story of
the-Chinese power and greatness while he stayed. '- -
After we passed this'mighty nothing called a wall, some-
thing like the Picts’ wall, so famous, in-Northumberland, land
' built by the Romans, we began to nd the country thinly
. inhabited, and the people rather conned to live in fortied-
towns and cities, as being subject to the inroads and depreda-
tions of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are
not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began tond the necessity of keeping together in
I
.4 Fan with at Tartars. _ 489
‘ a. caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars
roving. about ; but when I came .to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by I
such contemptible fellows, for they are a mere horde or crowd
' of wild fellows, keeping noforder, and understanding no discip-
line or manner of ght. Their horses are poor, lean, starved
creatures, taught nothing, and t for nothing; and this we
said the rst day we saw them, which was after we entered the
wilder part of the country. Our leader for the day gave leave
for about sixteen of us-to- go a-hunting, as they call it ; and
what was this but hunting of sheep. However, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest
of foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a
great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase,-
for they appear generally thirty or forty in a ock,‘and, like ,
true sheep, always keep together when they y. - I
' In pursuit of this odd sort of game it was our liap to méét '- I‘
with about forty Tartars. Whether they were hunting mutton,
as we were, or. whether they looked for another kind ‘of prey,
we knew not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a
kind of horn very loud, but With a barbarous sound that I had ‘
never heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again.
We all supposed this was to’call their friends about them, and
so it was ; 'for in less than half-a-quarter of an hour a troop of
forty. or fty more appeared at about a mile distance ; but our
work was over rst, as -it happened. _ -
One 'of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be '
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the horn he told us that
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, without
loss of time; and-drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were
resolved? We told him we were ready to follow him ; so he
rode. directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a
, mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any
’ order at all; but as soon as they saw us advance, they let y
their arrows, which, however, missed us very happily. It seems
they mistook not their aim, but their distance ; for their arrows
all' fell a little short of us, but with so true an 'aim, that had
we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed. , -
Immediately we halted; and though it was at a great dis-, ‘
tance, we red, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows,
following our shot full gallop, to fall in among them sword in
' hand, for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was indeed
but a merchant, but he behaved with such vigour and bravery
on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that I
, never saw any man in action tter for command. As soon as
we came up to them, we red our pistols in their faces, and
then drew ; but they ed in the greatest confusion imaginable.
The only stand any of them made was on our right, where
three of them stood, and by signs called the rest to come back
to them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their
bows hanging at their backs. Our brave commander, without
asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and
with his fusee knocks ‘one of them off his horse, killed the
second with his pistol, and the third ran away ; and thus ended
our ght. _ But we had this misfortune attending it, that all
our mutton we had in chase got away. We had not’a man
killed or hurt ; but as for the Tartars, there were about ve of
them killed. How many were wounded we knew not; but
this we knew, that the other party were so frightened with the'
noise of our guns,.that they made off, and never made any
attempt upon us. i
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and there-
fore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards ; but in about
' ve days we entered a vast, great, _wild desert, which held us
three days and nights’ march; and we were obliged to carry
our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to encamp all
night, just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.
I asked our guides whose dominion this was in, and they
told me this was a kind of border, that might be called N o
Man’s land, being a part of Great Karakathie, or Grand Tartary;
that, however, it was all reckoned as belonging to China, but
that there was no care taken here to preserve it from the inroads
of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in
the whole march, though we“ were to go over some much
larger. ’ ' '
In passing this wilderness, which I confess was at the rst
veryfrightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of
the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and
to have no design upon us ; and so, like the man who met the
Buys a Camel. 491
devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had _nothing to say
to them; we let them go. Once, however, a party of them
_came so near as to stand and gaze at us 2 whether it was to con-
sider if they should attack us or not, we knew not ; but when
we had passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-guard
of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half-a-mile or thereabouts before us: but after a while
they marched off; only we found they saluted us with ve
arrows at their parting, which wounded a horse so that it dis-
abled him, and we left him the next day, poor creature, in
great need of a good farrier. They might shoot more arrows,
which might fall short of us, but we saw no more arrows or
Tartars that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so
good as at rst, though still in the 'dominions of the Emperor
of China, but lay for the most part in villages, some of which
were fortied, because of the incursions of the Tartars. When
we came to one of these towns (it was about two and a-half
days’ journey before we came to the city of Naum), I 'vvanted
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the
way upon that road, and horses also, such as they are, because,
so many caravans coming that way, they are often wanted.
The person that I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone
and fetched one for me ; but I, like a fool, must be oicious,
and go myself along with him. The place was about two
miles out of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels
and horses feeding under a guard
I walked it on foot with my old 'pilot and a Chinese, being
very desirous, forsooth, of a little variety. When we came to
the place, it was a low, marshy ground, walled round with a
stone wall piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like
a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door.
'Having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away,
and the Chinese 'man that went with me led the camel, when
on a sudden came up ve Tartars on horseback. Two of them
seized the fellow and took the camel from him, while the other
three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it were,
unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The rst that
came up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they
are arrant cowards; but a second, coming up upon my left,
gave me a blow on the head, which I never felt till afterwards,
and wondered, when I came to myself, What was the matter,
and where I was, for he laid me at on the ground. But my
never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so Providence, unlooked
for, directs deliverances from dangers which to us are unfore-
- seen), had a'pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing. of, nor
the Tartars either; if they had, I suppose they would not have
attacked us ; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up, to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold
of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by main
force a little towards him, with the other shot him in the head,
and laid him dead upon the spot. He then immediately
stepped 'up to him who had. stopped us, as I said, and before
he could come forward again (for it was all done, as it were, in
a moment), made a blow at him with a scimitar which he
always wore, but, missing the man, struck his horse in the side
_of his head, out one of the ears off by the root, and a great
slice down the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with
the wound, was no more to be governed by his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough too, but away he ew, and carried
him quite out of the pilot’s reach; and at some distance, rising
up upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon
In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost the
camel, but he had no weapOn. However, seeing the Tartar
_ down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him,
and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his
side, something like a pole-axe, but not a pole-axe either, he
.wrenched it from him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to
deal with still ; and seeing he did not y as he expected, nor
come on to ght him as he apprehended, but stood stock still,
the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle to
charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the
pistol, .away he scoured, and left my pilot—my champion I
called'him afterward—a complete victory.
By this time I was a little recovered ; for I thought, when I
rst began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep ; but, as
A Chinese Yndge.
I said above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the
ground, and what was the matter: in a word, a few moments
after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know
_Where ; I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away-
bloody; then I felt my head ache, and then in a moment
memory returned, and everything was present to me again. I
jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword,
but no enemies were in view. I found a Tartar lying dead, '
' and. his horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking
further, I saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to
see what the Chinese had done, coming back with' his hanger.
in his hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, came run-
ning to me, and embraced me with a great deal of joy, being
afraid before that I had been killed, and, seeing me bloody,
would seehow I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
call a broken head; neither did I afterwards nd any‘ great
inconvenience from the blow, other than the place which was
hurt, and it was well again in two or three days. '
'We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost
a camel and gained a horse. But that which was remarkable,
when we came back to the village, the man demanded to be
paid for the camel. I disputed it, and it was brought to a
hearing before the Chinese judge of the place; that is to say,
in English, we went before a justice of the peace. To give
him his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and im<
partiality; and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked the
Chinese man that went with me . to buy the camel whose
servant he was? “ Iam no servant,” said he, “ but went with
the stranger.” “At whose request?” says the justice. “ At
the stranger’s request,” says he. “Why, then,” says the
justice, “you were the stranger’s servant for the time; and
the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to
him, and he must pay for it.” ~ - ’
,I confess the thing was so clear that I had not a word to
say; but, admiring to see such just Ireasoning upon the conse-
quence, and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly
for the camel, and sent for another; but you may observe I
sent for it: I did not go to fetch it myself any more; I had
had enough of that. ‘ ' '
The city of N aum is a frontier of the Chinese empire. They
493 '
call it fortied, and so it is, as fortications go there; for this
I will venture to afrm, that'all the Tartars in Karakathie,
which, I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the
walls with their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it I
were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who under-
stand it laugh at you. r '
We wanted, as I have said, above two days’. journey of this
city, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road to tell all travellers and caravans to halt till. they had a'
guard sent for them ; for that an unusual body of Tartars,
making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about
thirty miles beyond the city. . ' '
Thiswas very bad news to travellers ; however, it was 'care-
fully done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we
. should have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two
hundred soldiers sent us from 'a garrison of the Chinese on our
left, and three hundred more from the city of N aum, and with
these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from
Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and
our men on each side of our camels with our baggage, and the
whole caravan in the centre. In this order, and well prepared
for battle, we thought ourselves a match for. the whole ten
thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next
day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.
It was early in the‘morning, when, marching from a well-
ei/tuatedv little town called Changu, we had a river to pass,
which we were obliged to ferry; and had the Tartars had any
intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when,
the caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but they
did not appear. About three hours after, when we were entered
upon a desert of about fteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by
a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand;
and they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the spur.
The Chinese, our guard in the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently
looked behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier. that
he is. just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind;
and being near me, he called out, “ Seignior‘Inglese,” says be,
“those fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
for if the Tartars come on, they will never stand it.” “I am
A Fig/ii with Me Tartar/s. 49")
of your mind,” said I; “ but What must be done 2” “ Done l”
says he; “let fty of our men advance, and ank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will ght like brave
fellows in brave company; but without this, they will every
man turn his back.” Immediately I rode up to our leader, and


“ THE TARTARS CAME ON.
told him, who was exactly of our mind ; and accordingly fty
of us marched to the right wing, and fty to the left, and the
rest made a line of reserve; and so we marched, leaving the
last two hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to
guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should send a
hundred men to assist the last fty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable com- _
pany they were ; how many we could not tell, but ten thousand,
we thought, was the least. A party of them came on rst, and
viewed our posture, traversing the ground in front of our line ;
and as we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the
two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each
Wing with their shot, which was done; and they went off, I
suppose back, to give an account of the reception they were
like to 'meet with; and, indeed, that salute cloyed their .
stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider
of it, and, wheeling off to the left, they gave over their- design,
and said no more to us for that time; which was very agreeable
to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent. for a
battle with such a number. ~ .
Two days after, we came to the city of Naun, or N aum. '
We thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to
the value of a hundred crowns or thereaboutsfwhich we- gave
to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one day.
This is a garrison indeed, and there were nine hundred
soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was, that formerly the
Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do, the
Muscovites having abandoned that part of the country, which
lies from this city west for about two ‘hundredmiles, as desolate
and unt for use ; and more especially being so very remote, and
so difcult to send troops thither for its defence : for we were
yet above two thousand miles from Musco'vy, properly so called.
After this, we passed several great rivers and-two dreadful
deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing over, and
which, as I said, was called N o Man’s land; and on the 13th
of April-We came to the frontiers of the Museovite dominions.
I think the rst city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be
called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called ‘
Arguna, being on the west side of the river Ar'guna.
I could not but discover an innite satisfaction that I was
soon arrived in, as I called it, a Christian' country, orat least
in‘a’country governed by Christians; for though the Musco-~
vites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians,
yet 'such they pretend to be, and are very devbut in their way.
It would certainly occur to any'man 'who travels the world as
I have done, and who had any power of reection—I say, it
i tians I”
countryman ; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians;
/ Arrival at Mnseovy. 497
would occur to -him to reect what a blessing it is to be
brought into the world where the name of God and of a
Redeemer is known, worshipped, and adored; and not where
the people, given up by eaven to strong delusions, worship
the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones; wor-'
ship monsters, elements, horribly-shaped animals, and statues
or images of monsters. Not a town or city we passed through
but had their pagodas, their idols, and their temples, ' 'and,
ignorant people worshipping even the works of their own hands.
Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared, where the kneewas bowed to Jesus; and whether
ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religionv was owned, and
the name of the true God was called upon and adored; and it
made the very recesses of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted ,
the brave Scots merchant I mentioned above with my rst
acknowledgment of this ; and taking him by the hand, I said
to him, “Blessed be God, we are once again among Chris-
He smiled, and answered, “Do not rejoice too soon,
and but for the name of it, you may see 'very little of the
substance for some months further of our journey.” “Well,” -
says I, “ but still it is better than paganism and worshipping
of devils.” “Why, I will tell you,” says he; “ exceptathe
Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants
of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this country, for
.above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst and
most ignorant of pagans.” 'And so, indeed, we found it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth,
if I understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to, '
befound in any part of the World. - We had at least twelve
hundred miles to the sea, eastward; ,two thousand to the
bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and above three thousand,
if weleft that sea and went on west, to the British and French
Channels: we had full ve thousand miles to the Indian or
Persian Sea, south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen
Sea, north : nay, if seme. people may be believed, there might
be no sea north-east till we came round the Pole, and conse-
quently into the north-west, and so had a continent of land
- _into America, the Lord knows where; though I‘ could give
some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake.
2 K . .
As we entered into the Muscovite dominiOns a good while
before we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to
observe-there but this ‘:. rst, that all the rivers run to the east.
As I understood by the charts which some in our caravan had
with them, it was plain that all those rivers ran into the great
river Yamour, or Gamour.' This river, by the natural course
of it, must run into the East Sea, or Chinese Ocean. The
story they _tell us, that the mouth of this river is choked up
with bulrushes of a monstrous growth—viz., three feet about,~
- and twenty or thirty feet high—I must be allowed to say, I
believe nothing of it; but as its navigation is of no use, he '
cause there is no trade that way—the Tartars, to whom alone
it belongs, dealing in' nothing but cattle—so nobody that ever
I heard of has been curious enough either to go down to the
mouth of it in boats, or come, up from the mouth of it in ships;
- but this is certain, that this river running east, in the latitude
of about 50 degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along
with it, and nds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude ; so
we are sure of sea there. ‘
Some leagues to the north of this river there are several
considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the
Yamour runs east ; and these are all found to join their waters
with the great river Tartarus, named so from the northernmost
nations of the Mogul Tartars, who, the Chinese say, were the
~ rst Tartars in the world ; and who, as our geographers allege,
are the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred history. These
rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I
, am yet to speak of, make it evident that _ the Northern Ocean
bounds the lands also on that side; so that it does not seem
rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself to
join with America on that side, or that there is not a com-
munication between the Northern and the Eastern Oceans.
But of this I shall say no more ;- it was my observation at that
time, and therefore I take notice of it in this place. ’
.We now advanced frOm the river Arguna by easy and
moderate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care
the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built
in as many places as it is possible to place them, where his
soldiers keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers
placed by the ~Romans in the remotest countries of their em-
\
What he saw in Mnseooy. , .499
pire, some of which I had read particularly were placed in
Britain for the security of commerce, and~ for the lodging of
' travellers : and thus it Was here ; for wherever we came, though
at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants of the
country were mere pagans, sacricing to idols, and worshipping
the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven; and not
only so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not
eat men’s flesh, as our savages of America did. ,
" Some instances of this we met with in the .country between -
Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city,
of Tartars and Russians together, called Nortsinskoy, in which
is a continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to
travel over. In a village near the last of those places, I had
the curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most
brutish and insufferable. ' They had, I suppose, a great sacrice
' that day ; for there stood out upon an old stump of a tree an
idol made of wood, frightful as the devil, at least as anything
, we can think of to represent the devil 'can be made. It had a
head not so much as resembling any creature that the werld
ever saw; 'ears 'as big as goats’ horns, and as high; eyes as big
as a crown-piece, a nose like a crooked ram’s horn, and a mouth
extended four-cornered like that of a lion, with horrible teeth,
hooked like a parrot’s under bill. It was dressed up in the
lthiest manner that you could suppose ; its upper garment was
of sheep-skins, Withthe wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet
on the head, with two'horns growing through it. It was about
eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any other proportion
of parts. ' ‘ ' ' '
This scarecrow was set up at' the outer side of the village, '
and when I came near to-it, there were sixteen or seventeen
creatures—Whether men or women I could not tell, for they
made no distinction by their habits, either of body or head—
all lying at upon the ground round this formidable block of
shapeless wood. I saw no motion amOng them any more than
if they had been logs of wood like the idol, and at rst
really thought they had been so; but when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling ‘
cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and
walked away as if they were displeased at our disturbing them.
A little way off from the idol,land at the door of a tent or
, hut, made all of sheep-skins and coW-skins dried, stood three
butchers—I thought they were such when I came nearer to
them, for I found they had long knives in' their hands—and in
_ the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one
young bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrices to that
senseless log of an idol, and these three men priests belonging
to it ; and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people
who brought the offering, and were making their prayers to.
that stock. - 1 ' .
I confess I was more mOVed at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life ;
to see God’s most glorious and best creature, to whom He had
granted so many advantages, even by creation, above the rest of
the works of His hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to
honour his Maker and be honoured by Him, sunk and de-
generated to a degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a
frightful nothing, a mere imaginary object dressed. up by
themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and that this
should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish
devotion by the devil himself, who, envying his Maker the
homage and.adoration of His creatures, had deluded them into
such gross, surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things as one would
think would shock Nature itself! - .
But what signied all the astonishment and reection of
thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there ’
was no room to wonder at it, or think it impossible. All my
admiration turned to rage, and I rode up to the image or
monster, call it what you will, and with my sword cut the
bonnet that was on its head in two in'the middle, so that it
hung down by one of the horns ; and one of our men that was
' with me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled
at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling ran
through the village, and two or three hundred people came
about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw
some had bows and arrows. But I resolved from that moment
to visit them again. _ - -
Resolves to destroy an ldol. . 501
Our caravan rested three nights at the town,‘ which was
about four miles off, in order to provide some horses which
they wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and'
jaded with the badness of the way and long march over the
last desert ; so we had some leisure here to put my design in
execution. I communicated my project to the Scots merchant
of Moscow, of whose courage I had suicient testimony, as
above. I told him what I had seen, and with what indigna-
tion I had since thought that human nature could be so
degenerate. I told him, if I could get but four or ve men
well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and destroy
that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no
power to help itself, and consequently could not be an object
of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them that offered
sacrices to it.
He laughed at me. Says he, “Your zeal may be good, but
what do you propose to yourself by it?” “ Propose!” said I ;
“to vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this
devil-worship.” “ But how will itv vindicate the honour of
God,” said he, “while the people will not be able to know
what you mean by it, unless you could speak to them and tell
them so? and then they will ght you, and 'beat’ you too, I
assure you; for they are desperate fellows, and that especially
in defence of their idolatry.” “ Can we not,” said I, “ do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons and causes in
writing in their own language?” “ Writing!” said he ; “ why,
there is not a man in ve nations of them that knows anything
. of a letter, or how to read a word in any language, or in their
own.” “Wretched ignorance !” said I to him; “however, I
have a great mind to do it ; perhaps nature may draw inferences
from it to them, to let them see how brutish they are to worship
such horrid things.” “ Look you, sir,” said he ; “if your zeal
prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it ; but, in the next
place, I would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy’s dominions ;
and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by
thousands to the Governor of N ortsinskoy, and complain and
demand satisfaction; and if he cannot give them satisfaction,
it is ten to one but they will revolt, and occasion a new war
With all the Tartars in the country.” , '
This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head 'for awhile;
but I harped upon the same string still, and all that day I was
uneasy to put my project in execution. Towards'the evening,
the Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the
town, and desired to speak with me.‘ “ I believe,” said he, “I
have put you off your good design. I have been a little con-
cerned about it since, for I abhor the idol and the idolatryas
much as you can do.” “Truly,” says I, “you have put off a
little the execution of it; but you have not put it out of my
thoughts, and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place,
though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction.”
“ N 0, no,” says he; ‘_‘ God forbid they should deliver you up
. to such a crew of monsters. They shall not do that either;
- that would be murdering you indeed.” “ Why,” says I ; “how
would they use me?” “Use you!” says he; “I’ll tell you
how‘they served a poor Russian who a'ronted them in their
worship just as you did, and whom they took prisoner. After
they had lamed him with an arrow that he could not run away,
they took him and stripped him stark naked, and set him upon
thetop of the idol monster, and stood all round him, and shot
as many'arrows into him as would stick over his whole body;
and then they burned him, and all the arrows sticking in him,
as a sacrice to the idol.” “And was this the same idol?”
“Yes,” says he, “the very same.” “Well,” says I, “I’ll tell
you a story.” So I related the story of our men at Madagascar,
and how they burned and sacked the village there, and killed
man, woman, and» child for their murdering one of our men, ’
just as it is relatedlbefore; ’ and when I had done, I added that
I thought we ought to do so to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story ; but when I
talked of doing so to that village, says he, ‘_‘ You mistake very
much; it Was not this village—it was almost a hundred miles
from this place; but it was the same idol, for they carry’him
about in procession all over the country.” “Well,” says I,
I “then that idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall,” says
I, “if I live this night out.”
In a word, nding me resolute, he liked the design, and told
me I should not go alone, but he would go with me, and bring
a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with us;
“ and one,” says he, “ as famous for his zeal as you, can desire
' Preparations inade. 503
any one, to be 'against such devilish things as these.” 'In a \
word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called
Captain Richardson; and I gave him a'full account of what “I
had seen, and, in a word, of ‘what I intended ; and he told me
readily he would ,go with me if it cost him his life: so we
agreed to go, only we three. _ I had, indeed, proposed it to my
partner, but he declined it. He said he was ready to assist me
to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence, but that
this was an adventure quite out of his way. So, I say, we
resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-servant,
and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with all
the secresy imaginable. ' I _ .
However, upon second thoughts, we.were willing to delay it
till the next night, because the caravan being to set forward in
the morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to
.. give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his
power. The Scots merchant, as steady in his resolution for
the enterprise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar’s robe
or gown of sheep-skins, and a bennet, with a bow and arrows, . ' \
and had provided the same for himself and his countryman,
‘ that the people, if they saw us, should net be able to determine
' who we were. \ \
I All the rst night we spent in' mixing up some combustible
matter, with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials
as we could get; and having got a good quantity of tar in a
little pot, about an hour after night we set out upon our ex-
pedition. v: _ . .
'We came to the place about eleven o’clock at night, and
found that the people had not the least jealousy of danger
attending their idol. The night was cloudy, yet the moon gave
us _light enough _to see that the idol stood just in the same ,
posture and place that it did before. The people seemed to'be
‘ all at their rest, only that in the great hut or tent, as we called
it, where we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for
butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to the door, we '
heard people talking as if there were ve or six of them. We
concluded, therefore, that if we set the wildre to the idol,
these men would come out immediately, and run up to the
place to rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it;
and what to do with them we knew not. Once we thought of . - '
J, \
f
carrying it away, and setting re to it at a distance ; but when
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage,
so we were at a loss again. The second Scotsman was for
setting're to the tent or hut, and knocking the creaturesthat
were thereon the head when they came out; but I could not
join with that ; I was against killing them, if it were possible
to avoid it.‘ “Well, then,” said the Scots merchant, “ I’ll tell
you what we will do : we will try to make them prisoners, tie
their hands behind them, and make them stand still and see
their idol destroyed.” _ .
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about
us, .which was used to tie our reworks together with; so we
resolved to attack the people rst, and‘ with as little noise as
we could. The rst thing we did, we knocked at the door,
which issued just as we desired it ; for one of their idol priests
' came to the door. We immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the
idol, where we gagged him that he might not make a noise,
tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another
‘ would come out to see what the matter was; but we waited so
long till the third man came back to us, and then nobody'
coming out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out
' came two more, and we served them just in the same manner,
but were obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by
the idol some distance frOm one another; when, going back,
' we found two more were coming out of the door, and a third
stood behind them Withinthe door. We seized the two, and
immediately tied them, when the third, stepping back and
crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and taking
out a composition we had made that would only smoke and
- stink, he set re to it, and threw it in among them. By that
time the other Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the
. two who were already bound, and tied together also by the
' arm, led them aWay to the idol, and left them there, to see if
_ their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us. '
When the fuze we had thrown in had lled the hut with so
much' smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw
_in a small leather bag of anOther kind, which amed like a
candle, and, following it in, we found there were but four people
5:3: .. . .. A” "ales...
a





A







































































































































































I











The Idol neonsz‘er destroyed. -~ 505
left, who, it seems, were two men and two women, and who,
as we supposed, had been about some of theirldiabolical sacri-
ces. They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least so ‘
as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak either for
the smoke. In a word, we took them, bound them as we had
done the others, and all without any noise. I should have said
we brought them out of the house or hut rst; for indeed we
were not able to bear the smoke any more than they were.
When we had done this, we carried them all together to the idol.
When we came there, we fell to work with him; and rst _we
daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar and such
other stuff as we had,which was tallow mixed with brimstone ;
' then we stopped his eyes, ears, and mouth full of gunpowder;
then we wrapped up a great piece of wildre in his .bonnet ;
and then, sticking all the combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, we looked about to see if we could nd anything
else to help to burn him, when my Scotsman remembered that
by the tent or hut where the men were there lay a heap of dry
forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remember. AWay he
and the other Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that.
When we _had done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and
made them stand up, and set them just before their monstrous
idol, and then set re to the whole. _
we stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till
the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew
up, and, we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape
of it ; and, in a word, till we saw it burned into a mere block
or log of wood; and then, setting the dry forage to it, we
found it would soon be quite consumed, when we began to
think of going away. But the Scotsman said, “ N 0, we must
not go'; for these poor deluded wretches will all throw them-
selves into the re, and burn themselves with the idol.” So_
.we resolved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and
then we came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers
exceedingly busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could
any man suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds,
as travellers might be supposed to be, to t themselves for the
fatigue of that day’s journey. _ ' .
, But the affair did not end so. The next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this village, but .
4 - of a hundred more, for aught I know, to the town gates, and
- in a most outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the,
Russian governor for the insulting their priests, and. burning
their great Cham-Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nortsinskoy
.were at rst in a great' consternation, for they said the Tartars
were no less than thirty thousand, and that in a few days more
'they would be one hundred thousand strong. The Russian
governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave them -
all the good words imaginable. He assured them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul of his garrison been
abroad; that it could not be from anybody there ; and if they
could let him know who it was, they should be exemplarily
punished. They returned, haughtily, that all the country re-
verenced the great Cham-Chi-Tliaungu, who dwelt in the sun,
' and no mortal would have dared to offer violence to his image
but some Christian miscreant; and they therefore resolved to
denounce war against and all the Russians, who, they said,
were miscreants and Christians.
' The governor, still patient, and] unwilling to make a breach,
or to have any cause of war alleged to be given by him—the _
Czar having strictly charged him to treat the conquered country
with gentleness and civility—egave them still all the good words
he could. At last he told them there was a' caravan gone
towards Russia that morning, and perhaps it Was some of'them
who had done them this injury; and that if they would be
satised with that, he would send afterthem to inquire into it.
n
This seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the ,
governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account how
the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our caravan
had dene it, they'should make their escape ; but that whether
we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was pessible ; and that, in the meantime, he would keep-
them in play as long as he could.
_ This was very friendly in the governor. However, when it
came to the caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the
matter; and' as for us that were guilty, we were the least of all
suspected ; none so much as asked ~us the question. However,
the captain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
Parsned hy the Tartars. 50.7
governor gave us, and we marched or travelled _two days and
two nights without any considerable stop, and then we lay at
a village called Plothus.: ,-nor did we make any long stop here,
but hastened on towards J arawena, another of the Czar of
Muscovy’s colonies, and where we expected we should be safe ; I
but it is to be observed, that here we began for two or three
. days’ march to enter upon the vast nameless desert, of,which I
‘ shall say more in its place; and which, if'we had now been
upon it, it is more than probable we had been all destroyed. It
was the second day’s march from Plothus that, by thev clouds
of dust behind us at a great distanCe, some of. 'our people began
to be sensible we were pursued. We had entered the desert,
and had passed by a great lake called Schaks-Oser, when-we ~
- perceived a very great body of horse appear on the other _side
of the lake to the north, we travelling west. We observed they
'went away west, as we did, but. had supposed we would have
taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily took the ‘
south side ; and in two days more we saw them not, for they,
believing We were still before them, pushed on till they came -
to the river Udda. .' This is a great river when it passes farther
north, ’but, when we came to it, we found it narrow and fordable.
The third day they either found their mistake, or had intel- .
,ligence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk
of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched
'upon' a place for our camp which was very convenient for the
night; for as' we were upon a desert, though but at the begin-
ningyof it, that was above ve hundred miles over, we had no -
towns to lodge at, and indeed expected none but the city of
j J arawena, which we had yet two days’. march to. The desert,
however, had some few woods in it on this side, and little
rivers which ran all into the great river Udda. . It was in a
narrow strait between two little, but very thick woods, that
we pitched our little camp for that night, expecting to be
attacked before morning. ' _
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for; but
as it was usual .for theMogul Tartars to go about in troops in
that desert, so the caravans always fortied themselves every
night against them, as against armies of robbers; and it was
therefore no new thing to be pursued. .
_ But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a
.- most advantageous camp ; for we lay between two woods, with
' a little rivulet running just before our front, so that we could
not be surrounded, or attacked any Way but in our front or
rear. We took care also to make our front as strong as we
could, by placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a
' line on the inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night ; but the enemy
was upon us before we had nished our situation. They did
not come on us' like thieves, as we expected, but sent three '
messengers to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them
that had abused their priests, and burned their god Cham-Chi-
Thaungu with re, that they might burn them with re ; and
upon this, they said, they would go away and do us no further
harm, otherwise they would burn us all with re. . Our men '
looked very blank at this message, and began to stare at one
another to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces;
but nobody was the word—nobody did it. The leader of the ,_
caravan sent word he was well assuredyit was not done by any
' of our camp ; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on
our business ; that we had done no harm to them or to any one
else ; and that, therefore, they must look further- for their '
- enemies who had injured them, for we were not the people.
So he desired them not to disturb us, for if they did we should ‘
defend ourselves. , ' ' _ I
- They were far from being satised with this for an answer,
and a great crowd of them came running down in the morning
by break of day to our camp ; but seeing us in such an unac-
countable situation, they durst come no farther than the brook
in our front, where they stood and showed us such a number
that indeed terried us very much ; for thOse that spoke least
of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked
at us awhile, and then, setting up a great howl, they let y'a
, crowd of arrows among us; but we were well enough fortied
for that, for we sheltered under our baggage, and I do not re-
member that one man of us was hurt. '
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to our right,
and expected themon the rear; when a cunning fellow, a
Cossack, as they call them, of J arawena, in the pay of the
Muscovites, calling to the leader of the caravan, said to him,
“I’ll gq send‘all these people away to Sibeilka.” This was a.
The Enemy Deeeioea’. I 509
city four or ve days’ journey at least to the south, and rather
i, behind us. So he takes his 'bow and arrows, and getting on
horseback, he rides away from .our rear directly, as it were,
~back to N ortsinskoy. After this he takes a great circuit about,
and comes to the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent
express to tell them a long story that. the people who had -
burned the Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a
caravan of miscreants, as he called them—that is to say, Chris-
‘ ' tians; and that they had resolved to burn the god Schal-Isar,
belonging to the Tongueses.
As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and spoke their
language perfectly, he counterfeited so well that they all behaved
him, and away they drove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka,
which, it seems, was ve days’ journey to the north; and in
~ less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and
(we never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to
Sibeilka or no. So we passed safely on to the city, of J ara-'
wena, where there was a garrison of Muscovites, and there we
‘ rested ve days ; the caravan being exceedingly fatigued with
the last day’s hard march, and with want of “rest in the night.
. From this city we had a frightful desert, which hold us
three-and-twenty days’ march. We furnished ourselves with
some tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the
night; and the leader of the caravan procured sixteen car-
riages or waggons of the country for carrying our water or
provisions, and these carriages were our defence every night
round our little camp ; so that, had the Tartars appeared, unless -
they had been very numerous indeed, they, would not have ‘
been able to hurt us. _ ' I
We may well- be supposed to want rest again after this, long
journey; form this desert we saw abundance of.the sable-
. hunters, as they call them. ' These are all Tartars of the Mogul .
Tartary,‘ of which this country is a part ; and they frequently
attack small caravans, but we saw no number of them together.
Iwas curious to see the sable-skins they catched, but could
. never- speak with any of them; for they durst not come near us,
'neither durst we straggle from our company to go near them.
. _After we had passed this desert, we came into a country
pretty well inhabited; that is to say, _we feund towns and _
'castles, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of ' sta-
tionary soldiers, to protect the caravans and defend the coun-
try against the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very
dangerous travelling; and his czarish majesty has given such
strict orders for the well guarding the caravans and merchants,
that, if there are any Tartars heard of in the country, detach-
ments of the garrisons are always sent to see the travellers safe
from station to station. And thus the governor of Adinskoy,
whom I had opportunity to make a visit to by means of the -
Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered us a
- guard of fty men, if we thought them was any danger, to the
next station. - - -
‘I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to
Europe we should nd the country better inhabited, and the
people more civilised; but I found myself mistaken in both,
for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses to pass through,
Where wesaw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity, or
~worse, as before; only, as they were conquered by the Mus-
covites; and entirely reduced, they were not so dangerous ; but
for rudeness of manners, idolatry, and multitheism, 'no people _
in the world ever Went beyond them. They are all clothed in
skins of beasts, and their houses are built of the same. You
know not a' man from a woman,- neither by the ruggedness of
their’countenances nor their clothes ; and in winter, when the
ground is covered' with snow, they live under ground in houses
like vaults, which have cavities going from one to another.
If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a whole
village or country, these had idols in every hut and in every
- cave; besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the
snow, and, in a word, everything they do not understand, and
they understand but very little ; so that almost every element,
every uncommon thing, sets them a-sacricing. .1.
But I am no more to describe people than countries any
further than my own story comes to be concerned in them. I
met with nothing peculiar myself in all this country, which I
reckon was, from the desert I spoke of last, at least four
hundred miles, half of it “being another desert, which took us
up twelve days’ severe travelling, without house, or tree, or
bush; and we were obliged again to carry our own provisions,
as well‘water as bread. After we wereout of this desert, and
,had travelled two days, we came to J anezay, a Muscovite city
. A Country, of Pagans. ’511
or station on the great river J anezay. This river they told
us parted Europe from Asia, though our map-makers, as I am
told, do not agree to it; however, it is certainly the eastern
boundary of the ancient Siberia, which now makes up a
province of the vast Muscovite empire, but is itself equal in
size to the whole empire of Germany. , .
/And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism stillipre~
vailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons. All the country
between the river Oby- and the river J anezay is as entirely ~
pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest of the
Tartars ; nay, as any nation, for aught I know, in Asia or
America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite.
governors whom I had opportunity to converse with, that the
poor pagans are not much the wiser or the nearer Christianity
for being under the Muscovite government, which they ac~
knowledged‘ Was true enough; but that, as they said, was none
of their business: that if the Czar expected to convert, his
Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by
sending clergymen among them, not soldiers ; and they added,
with more [sincerity than I expected, that they found it was
not so much the concern of their monarch to make the people
Christians as it was to make them subjects.
From this river to the great river Oby we crossed a wild and
uncultivated country. ‘ I cannot say it is a barren soil; it is
only barren of people and good management; otherwise it is
in itself amost- pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. ~What
inhabitants we found in it arev all pagans, except such as are
sent among them from Russia ; for this is the ocuntry—I mean
on both sides the river Oby—whither the Muscovite criminals
that are not Put to death are banished, and from whence it is
next to impossible they should ever get away.
I have nothing material to say of .my particular affairs till I -
came to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I con-
tinued some time, on the following occasion :‘—- v q
We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apace ; whereupon my partner and I
called a council about our particular affairs, in which we found
it proper, as we were bound for England, and not for Moscow,
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sledges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter ‘
time; and, indeed, they have such things that it would be
incredible to relate the particulars of, by which means the
’Russians travel more in winter than they can in summer, be-
cause in these sledges they are able to run all'night and day;
the snow,'being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by
which the hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard
as a stone, and they run upon the surface, without any regard
to what is underneath. ’
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this
kind; I was-bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route
lay two ways: either I must go on as the caravan went, till I'
came to J arislaw, and then go off west for N arva and the 'Gulf'
of Finland, and so either by sea or land to Dantzic, where I
might possibly sell my Chin'a cargo to good advantage; or I
must leave the caravan at 'a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but six days by water to Archangel, andfrom
thence might be [sure of shipping, either to England, Holland,
‘ or Hamburg. '~ - , v
\. Now to go any of these journeys in the winter would have
been preposterous; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic would be
' frozen up, and I could not get passage; and to go by land in
those countries was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars ;
likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be
gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell there in
_ summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships
are gone ; so that I should have nothing but extremity of cold-
to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie there
in'lan empty town all the winter; so that, upOn the whole, I
thought it a much better way to let the caravan go, and make
provision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the
latitude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear
out a cold winter with—viz., plenty of provisions, such as the
country afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent
company: of all which I shall give a full account in its place.
~ I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved
,island, where I never felt-cold, except when I had my ague ;
on'the contrary, I had much to do to hear my clothes on my
back, and never made any re but without doors, and for my
necessity in dressing my food, &0. N 0W I had made me three
good-vests, with large robes orgowns over them, to hang down
i ; ' l
Exiles in Siheria. 513
to the feet, and buttoned close to the wrists; and all these
lined with furs, to make them sufciently warm. 3 _'
As to a warm house,'I must confess I greatly disliked our
way in England, of making res in every room in the'house, in
Open chimneys, which, when the re was out, always kept the
air in the room cold as the climate. But taking an apartment
- in a good house in' the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a furnace, in the centre .of six seVeral rooms, like a stove;
the funnel to carry the smoke,Went up one way, the door to
come at the re went in another, and all the rooms were kept
equally warm, but no re seen; just as they heat the bagnios
in- England. By this means we had always the same climate
in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and'how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within, and yet
. we saw no re, nor were incominoded with any smoke.
- The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be pos-
sible to meet with good company here, in a country so barbarous
as that of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the Frozen
Ocean, and within but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla.
But this being the country where the State criminals of
- Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished, this city was
full of nobleman, princes, gentlemen, colonels ; and, in short, all
degrees of - the nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Mus-
covy. Here was the famous Prince Gallitzin, the old General
.Robostiski,-and several other persons of note, and some ladies.
- By means of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless, 'I
parted with here, I made an acquaintance with several of
these gentlemen, and some of them of the rst rank; and ,-
from these, in the long winter nights in which I stayed, I re-
ceived several very agreeable visits. It was talking one night
with Prince , one of the banished ministers of State, .
belonging to the Czar of- Muscovy, that my talk of my particular
casebegan. He had been telling me abundance of ne things,
of the greatness, the magnicence, the dominions, and the
absolute power of the Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted
him, and told him I was a greater and more powerful prince
than ever the Czar of Muscovy was,,though my dominions _were
not so large, or my people so many. The Russian grandee
looked a little surprised, and, xing his eyes steadily upon me, _
began to wonder what“ I mean - v '
' . 2 L -

I . I told him his wonder would cease when I had explained
myself; First, I told him, I had the absolute disposal of the
lives and fortunes of all my subjects : that, notwithstanding my I
~ absolute power, I had no one person disaffected 'to my govern-
ment or to my person in all my dominions. He shook his head
at that, and said there indeed I outdid the Czar of Muscovy.
I- told him that all the lands inmy kingdom were my own, and -
I all my-subjects were not only my,tenants, but tenants .at will;
\ that they would all ght for me to the last drop; and that
‘ never tyrant, for suchI acknowledged myself to be, was ever so
universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared by his subjects.
1;. After amusing them with these riddles in government for a
' while, I,opened the case, and told them the story at large of
' my living in the island, and how I managed bothj myself and.
the people there that were under me, just as I have since "
minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken with the story,
and especially the prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the
true “greatness of life Was to be masters of ourselves ; that he
would not have exchanged such a state of life as mine to have
been Czar of Muscovy; and that he found more felicity'in the .
retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he
- ~ _ found in the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his
master the Czar: that the height of human wisdom was to
bring our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a
calm within under the weight of the greatest storm without.
When he rst, came hither, he said, he used to tear the hair
from his head, and the clothes from his back, as others had
. donebefore him; but a little time and consideration 'had made
' him look into himself, as well as round him to things without;
' that he found the mind of man, if 'it was but once brought to
, reect upon the state of universal life, and how‘ little this
world was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable
of-making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and
suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very little
assistancev from the world; that air to breathe in, food to.
sustain life, clothes for Warmth, and liberty for exercise
/ - order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world
could do for us: and though the greatness, the authority, the
riches, and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the world, and
‘which he had enjoyed his share 'of, had much in; them that '
3A Contented Brae. ' e. 1 515
was agreeable ,to us, yet, he observed, all those things chiey '
gratied, the coarsest of our affections, such as our ambition,
our 'particular pride, our avarice, our vanity,- and our sensuality ;
, all which being, indeed, 'the mere product of the worst part of
man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds of _
- _ all manner of crimes, but~ neither were related to, nor concerned
' with, any of those virtues that constituted us wise men, or, of
those graces which distinguished us as Christians : that being i
now deprived of all the fancied felicity which heenjoyed in
the full, exercise of all those vices, he said. he was at leisure to
look upon the. dark side of them, where\he found - _all manner
of deformity; and was now convinced that virtue only makes
a man truly ,wise, rich, and great, and preserves him _in the'
way to a superior happiness in a future state. And in this, he
\ , said, they were more happy in their banishment than all their
enemies were, who had the full, possession of all the wealth
and power that they (the banished) had left behind them.-
“Nor, sir,” says he, “do I'bring my mind to this politically
from the necessity of my circumstances, which some call miser-
able; _but if I know anything of myself, I would not now go
back, though the Czar, my master, should call me, and reinstate
' me in all my former grandeur—I say, I would no more go
back to it, than I believe. my soul, when it shall be delivered
from this prison of the body, and has had a taste of the
glorious state beyond life, would come back to the gaol of esh
and blood it is now enclosed in, and leave heaven to deal ‘in
the dirt and grime of human affairs.” 7"
' [He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much
‘ earnestness and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in 4
his" countenance, that it was evident it was the true sense of
his soul. There was no room to doubt his sincerity. ,
_ I told' him I once thought myself a kind _,of 'a monarch in
-my old station, of which I had given him an account, but that
I I thought he was not a monarch only, but a great conqueror;
for that he that has got a victory over his bwnfexorbitant
~ desires, and has the absolute dominion over himself, whose
reason entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he -
-_that conquers va city. “But, my lord,” said I; “shall I take
theliberty to ask you a question?” “ With all my heart,” says I
he. ‘_ “ If the door‘of your liberty was opened,” said I, “ would '
I
"516
Rollins-on Crusoe. _ r
\
K”.
I.
-_ visited with sickness and distempers.
,Lquestion out of dispute : you see our way of life ; we are in this
’"’ 5; I’ll give it to you from the bottom of my heart.
‘ j I know of in this world would move me to deliver myself from
you not take hold of it to deliver yourself from this exile?” Q
“'Hold !” {said he; “your question is subtle, and requires '
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere answer; and
Nothing that
this state of banishment except these two—rst, the enjoyment
of my relations; and, secondly, a little warmer climate. _ But
I' protest to you [that ~to go back to the pomp of the court, the‘
glory, the poWer, the hurry of a minister of state ; the wealth, \
' the gaiety, and the pleasures, that is to Say, fol-lies, of a courtier; '
-—if my master should send me _word this moment that he
restores me to all he banished me from, I protest, if I- know'
’myself atall, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts,
and these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow.” “ But, my
lord,” said I, “perhaps you not only are banished from the
. pleasures of the court, and from the power, and authority,
and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be absent, too,
from some of the conveniences of life; your estate, perhaps,
conscated, and your effects plundered; and the supplies left
' you here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life.”
' “Ay,” says he, “that is, as you suppose me to be a lord er .
a prince, 860. So indeed I am; but you are now to consider
me only as a man, a human creature, not at all distinguished
from anbther ; and so I can suffer he want, unless I shall. be
However, to put the
place ve persons of rank; we live perfectly’retired, as suited
to-a state of banishment; we. have something rescued from the
shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere ne-
cessity of hunting for our food; but the poor soldiers who are
here, without that help, live in as much plenty as. we, who go
into, the woods and catch, sables and foxes; the labour of a
' month will maintain them a year: and as the way of living is
' _ not exPensive, so it is not hard to get suicient for ourselves.
\
So that objection is out of doors.” ' - ~ . , _
I have not room to 'vea full account of the most agreeable
conversation I had wit this truly great man; in all which he
showed that his 'mind was so inspired'with a superior knowledge
of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast share ’
of wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really as much
Intense fold in! Sizieria; ‘ . ‘517
as. he had expressed, and that he was always the same to the
last, as will appear in the story I am going to tell.
I I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter. I V
thought it; the cold so intense that I could _not so much as“
" look abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur
before my faCe, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, -
and two for sight. The little daylight we had was, as we
reckoned, for three months not above ve hours a-day, and six
at most; only that the snow lying on the ground continually,
and the weather clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses
were kept, or rather starved, underground ; and as for our ser-
vants—for we hired three servants here to look after our horses
and selves—we had every now and then their ngers and toes
to thaw and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being
- close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double.
'Our food was chiey the esh of deer, dried and cured in the
season; bread good enough, but baked as biscuits; dried sh
of several sorts, and some esh of‘ mutton, and of buffaloes,
which is pretty good beef. , All the stores of provisions for the
winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured. Our drink
was water mixed with aqua vitae instead of brandy; and, for a
treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have
very good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brought us in fresh venison, very fat and good, and
' sometimes bear’s esh; but we did not much care for the last. '
It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, -
_‘ and the weather, at least, tolerable; so the other travellers ,
began to prepare sledges to carry them over the Snow, and to
get things ready to be going ; but my measures being xed, as '
I have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, ’
I I made no motion ; knowing verywell that the ships from the
_south do not set out for that part of the world till May or June ; -
and that if I was there by the beginning of August, it Would
be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away; and there-_
fore, I say, _I made no haste to be gone, as others did. .
About the latter end of May I began _to make all ready'
to pack up; and as I was doing this, it occurred to me,
that, seeing all these people were banished by the Czar of
Muscoyy to Siberia, and yet, when they came there, were left
at liberty to go whither they would, why did they not then go \
away to any part of the world wherever they thought t? and
I began to examine what should hinder them from making
such an attempt. 'But my wonder was over when I entered.
upon that subject with I the person I have 'mentioned, who
answered me thus: “Consider, rst,'sir,” said he, “the place
where we are ; and, secondly, the condition we are in; especi-
ally,” said he, “ the generality of the people who are banished
' ' hither. We are surrounded,” said he, “with stronger things
.' than bars and bolts: on the north side an unnavigable ocean,
where ship never sailed and boat never swam; neither, if we
had both, could we know where to ~go with them. .Every other .
way,” said he, “we have above a thousand miles to pass
through the Czar’s own dominions, and by ways utterly impas-
sable, except by the roads made by the governor, and through
the: towns garrisoned by his troops; so that we could neither
pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any other way; and ,
therefore it would be'vain to attempt it.” _’ -
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that. they were in
. a prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in
the castle at Moscow. However, it came into my thoughts
that I might. certainly be made an instrument to procure the
escape of this excellent person, and that, whatever hazard I ran,
I Would! certainly try if I could carry him off. Upon this I
took an occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts. I repre-
i sented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country, and as I
was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and went in the '
nature of, a ' caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the
\ stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night
where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-
angel, where I would immediately secure him on board an
' English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along with me; _
and as .to his subsistence, and other particulars, it should be-
my care till he_could better supply himself. . ' '
_ He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me '
all the while I spoke. Nay, I could see in his very face that'
what I said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment; his
colour ,frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart
uttered, that it might be even perceived in his countenance;
l
A Friendly 'Oer 'Deetinea’. _ 519
nor could he immediately answer me when I had done, and, as
it were, expected what he would say to it; but after he had
paused a little he embraced me, and said, “How unhappy are
we, unguarded creatures ‘as we are, that even our greatest acts of
friendship are made snares to us, and We are made tempters of
, one another! My dear friend,” said he, “your offer is so
sinéere,/has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and
is so calculated for my advantage, that I must have very little
knowledge of the world if I did not 'both wonder at it, and .
acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you for it. But I
did you believe I was sincere in what I have so often said to
you of my contempt of \the world? Did you believe I spoke
my very soul to you, and that I had really obtained that degree
of felicity here, that had placed me above all that the world
could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I was sincere,
when I told you I would not go back, ifI was recalled even to
all that once I Was in the court, with the favour of the Czar, -
my master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest ,'
man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite?” Here
he stopped, as if he would hear what I would say; but, indeed,
I soon after perceived that he stopped because his spirits were
in motion ; his great heart was full of struggles, and he could
not go on. I was, I confess, astonishedat the thing, as well as
- at the man, and I used some arguments with him to urge him
to set himself free'; that he‘ought to look upon this as a door
opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by Pro- _
vidence, who has the care and disposition of all events, to do
‘ himself good, and to render himself useful in the w0rld. ,
He had by this time recovered himself. “ How do you
know, sir,” says he, warmly, “that, instead of a summons
from Heaven, it may not be -a feint of another instrument,
representing, in all the alluring colours ' to me, the show of-
felicity as- a deliverance, which may in itself be my snare, and
tend directly to my ruin? Here I am free from the temptation
of returning to my former miserable greatness ; there I am not
sure but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and
luxury which I know remain in nature may revive and take
root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me ; and then the
' happy prisoner, whom you see new master of his soul’s liberty,
shall be the miserable slave of his ownsenses, in the full enjoy-
ment of all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this
blessed connement, banished from the crimes of life, rather
than purchase a show of freede at the expense of the liberty
of my reason, and at the expense of the future happiness which
I now have in my view, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight
of ; for am but esh, a man, a mere man, having passions and
'a‘ections as likely to possess and overthrow me as any man. '
Oh, be not my friend and my tempter both together!”
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood
' silent looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I saw. The
struggle in his soul was so great that, though the weather was
extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I
found he wanted to give vent to his mind : so I said a word or
two, that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him
again : and then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door
of my room, and I was going to open the door; but he had
opened it, and come in. “ My dear friend,” says he, “ you had‘
almost overset me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that
I do not close with your offer. ' I assure you, ’tis not for want of
,a sense of the kindness of it in you, and I come to make the
most sincere acknowledgment of it to you; but I hope I have
got the victory over myself.” _ a
“ My lord,” said I, “ I hope you are fully satised that you
do not resist the call of Heaven.” “Sir,” said he, “if it had
7 been from Heaven, the same power would have inuenced me
to accept it; but I hope that it is from Heaven that I decline
it ; and I _have an innite satisfaction in the parting, that you
shall leave me an honest 'man still, though not a free man.”
I had nothing to do but to' acquiesce, and make professions
to him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve
him. He embraced me very passionately, and assured me he
_was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge it: and
with that ‘he offered me a very ne present of sables, too much
indeed for me to accept from a man in his circumstances; and
I would have avoided them, but he would not be refuseds~
'The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a
small present of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and four
little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six
ounces or thereabouts, but were far short of the value of his
A snhsz‘iinle I Accepz‘ed.
sables, which, indeed, when I came to England, I found worth
near £200. He accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask,
and one of the pieces of- gold, which had a ne stamp upon it
of the Japan coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of
it, but would not take any more; and he sent word by my
servant that he desired to speak with me.
521
When I came to him, .he told me I knew what had passed '
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that
affair; but’that, since I had made such a. generous offer to him,
he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer the same to
another person that he would name to me, in whom he had a
great share of concern. I told him that I could not say I
inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for whom I
had a particular value, and should have been glad to have been
the instrument of his deliverance ; however, if he would please
to name the person to me, I would give him my answer, and
hoped he would not be displeased with me, if he was with my
answer. He told me it was only his son, whom, though I had
not seen, yet was in the same condition with himself, and above
two hundred miles from him, on the other side Of the Oby ;
but that, if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that .it was wholly
on his account ; and that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I
would show my respect to him by my concern for his son.
But these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away
the next day for his son; and, in about twenty days, he came ,
back with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded
with very rich furs, and which in the whole amounted to a
very great value. His servants brought the horses into the
town, but left the young lord at a. distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented
him to me; and, in short, we concerted there the manner of '
our travelling, and everything proper for the journey.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
a city, I believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it
is so far out of the road of commerce that I know not how it
should be much talked of. We were now reduced to a very small
caravan, having only thirty-two horses and camels in all; and
all of them passed for mine, though my new guest yvas pro-
prietor of eleven of. them. It Was most natural also that I
' should take more servants with me than I had before ; and the
young lord passed for vmy steward. What great man I passed
for, myself I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire. .
We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over '
that we met with in all the journey. _ j r '
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant, or
rather a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted with
the country, and led us byprivate roads, so that we‘ avoided
coming into the principal towns and. cities upon the great road, '
such as Tumen, Soly-Kamskoi, and several others; because the
Muscovite garrisons which are kept there are very curious and
strict in their observation upon travellers, and searching lest
any of the banished persons of note should make,their escape.
that way into Muscovy. But by this means, as we were kept
out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and we
were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents when we might
have had very‘good accommodation in the cities on the way.
We were just enteredEurope, having passed the river Kama,
which, in these parts, is the boundary between Europe and
Asia, and the rst city on the European side was called Soly-
Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the great city, on the a
_river Kama. And here we thought to have seen some evident
alteration in the people, their manners, their habits, their
religion, and their business. But we were mistaken; for as
we had a vast desert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred
' miles over where we passed it, so, till we came past that
horrible place, we found ‘very little difference between that
‘ country and the Mogul Tartary. The people are mostly pagans,
and little better than the savages of America, their houses and
towns full of idols, and their way of living whelly barbarous,
except in the cities as above, and the villages near them, Where
there are Christians, as they call themselves, of the Greek
Church, but have their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition that it is scarce to be known in some places from
mere sorcery and Witchcraft. ’
_ In passing this forest, I thought indeed we must (after all
our dangers were in our imagination escaped, as before) have
been plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop
Threatened by T artars. ~ 523
of thieves. Of. what country they were, whether the roving
bands of the Ostiachi, a kind of Tartars or wild people on' the
bank of the Oby, and ranged thus far; or whether they were
the sable-hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to know; but
.they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were . '
at rst about ve-and-forty in number. They came so near to us
as to be within about two musket-shots, and, asking no questions,
_ they surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly
upon us twice. At length they placed themselves just in our
way, upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels,
being not above sixteen men in all ; and being drawn up thus,
we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant who attended his
lord to see who they were. His master was the more willing
to let him go, because he'was not a little apprehensive that-
they were a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came
, up near them with a ag of truce, and called to them; but though .
he spoke several of their languages,“ or dialects of! languages _
rather, he could not understand a word they said. However,
' - after some signs to him not to come near to them at his peril—
so he said he understood them to mean, offering to shoot at him
if he advanced—the fellow came back no wiser than he went;
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some
Tartars of Kalmuck,,or of the Circassian hordes, and that there
must be more of them upon the great desert, though he never
heard that any of them ever were seen so far north before.
This was small comfort to us ; however, we had no remedy.
There was' on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile’s dis-
tance, a little grove or clump of trees, which stood close together,
and very near the road. “I immediately resolved we would
advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could
there: for, rst, I considered that~the trees would, in a great '
measure, cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place,
they could not come to charge us in a body. It was indeed
my-old Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this
excellency attending him—viz., that he was always readiest,
and mest apt to direct and encourage us, in cases of the most
danger. Weadvanced immediately with what speed we could,
and gained that little wood, the Tartars or thieves, for we knew
not what to call them, keeping their stand, and notattempting
to hinder us. 'When we came thither, we found, to our great
satisfaction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of ground;
and .on ' the one side av very great spring of water, which,
running out in a little rill or brook, was, a little farther, joined
by another of the like size, and was, in short, the head or
source~of a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska.
The trees which grew about this spring were not in all above
two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick ; so
that, as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from
the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked _us on' foot. But 7
to make this more difcult, our Portuguese, with indefatigable
application, cut down great arms of the trees, and laid them
hanging, not quite cut off, from one tree to another, so that he
'made a continued fence almost round us.
_We stayed here, waiting the motion of. the enemy, some
hours, without perceiving, they made any movement; when,
about two hours before night, they came down directly upon
us; and, though we had not perceived it, we found they had
been joined by some more of, the same, so that they were near
'fourscore horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half-shot of our little.
wood, when We red one musket without ball, and called to
them' in the Russian tongue to know what they wanted, and
bade them keep off. But, as if they knew nothing of what we
' said, they came on with a double fury, directly up to the wood
side, not imagining we were so barricaded that they could not
break in. _ Our' old pilot was our captain as well as our
engineer, and desired of us not to re upon them till they came
within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to kill; and that,
when we did re, we should be sure to take good aim. We
bade him give the word of command, which he delayed so long
that they were, some of them, within two pikes’ length of us
when we red. We aimed so true, or Providence directed'our
shot so sure, that we killed fourteen ,of them, and wounded
several others, as also several of their horses ; for we had all of
us loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at least. _
They were terribly surPrised with our re, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from us, in which time
we loaded our pieces again ; and seeing them keep that distance,
We-sallied out and caught four or ve of their horses, whose
riders, we suppose, were killed; and, coming up to the dead,
\ - |
The T artnrs Repnlsea’. 525
-we could easily perceive they Were Tartars, but knew not from
what country, or how they came to.make an excursion of such ,
an unusual length. About an heur after, they made a motion to
attack us' again, and rode round our little wood to see where
else they might break in; but nding us always ready to face
them, they went off again, and we resolved not to stir from the
place for that night. ‘ _
We sleptv little, you may be sure, but spent the most part
of the night in strengthening our situation, barricading the
entrances into the ' wood, and keeping a strict watch. We
waited for daylight, and when it came it gave us a very un-
welcome discovery indeed; for the enemy, whom we thought
were discouraged with the reception they had met with, were
now increased to no less than three hundred, and had set up
eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to
besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched,upon the
open plain, at about three-quarters of a mile from us. We
were indeed surprised at this discovery ; and now, I confess, I
gave myself 'over for lost,.and all that I had. The loss of my
effects did not lie so near me, though they were very‘ consider-
able, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians,
at the latter end of my journey, after so many diiculties and
hazards as I had gone thrOugh, and even in sight of our port,
where we expected safety and deliverance. As for my partner,
he, was raging. He declared that to lose his goods would be
_ his ruin; and he would rather die than be starved: and he,
' wasfor ghting to the last drop. ' '
The young lord, as gallant as ever' esh showed itself, was
for ghting to the last also; and my old pilot was .of the
opinion we were able to resist them all in the situation we
were then in. , And thus we spent the day in debates of what,
we should do. But towards evening we found that the number
of' our enemies still increased, perhaps as they were abroad in
several parties for prey. The rst had sent cut scouts to call
fer help, and to acquaint them of the booty; and we did not
know but by'the morning they might still be a greater number. '
So I began to inquire' of those people we had brought from
Tobolski if there was no other or more private ways by which
we might avoid them in the night, and perhaps either retreat
to some town, or get help to guard us over the desert. The
Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told us, if. we
designed to avoid them, and not ght, he would engage to carry
us off in the night to a way that went north ,towards -the
Petrou, by which he made no question but we might get away,
. and the Tartars never be the wiser. » But, he said, his lord had
told him he would not retreat, ' but would rather choose to
ght. I told him he mistook his lord; for that he was too ,
wise a man to love ghting for the sake of it ,' that 'I knew his
lord was brave enough by what he had shown already; but
that his lord knew better than to desire to have seventeen or
eighteen men ght ve hundred, unless an unavoidable neces-
sity forced them to it; and that, if he thought it possible for
us to escape in the night, we had nothing else 'to do but to'
attempt it; He answered, if his lord gave him such an order,
he would lose his life 'if he did not perform it. We soon
brought his lord to give that order, though privately ; and we
immediately prepared for the putting it in practice. -
And, rst, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a re
in our littlecamp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as
to make it burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we
were still there. .But as soon as it- was dark, that is to say, so
__as we could see the stars—for our guide would not stir before,
having all our horses and camels ready loaded—we followed our -
' new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the pole, or
north star, all the country being level for a long way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be
lighter still ; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon '
’ began to rise, so that, in a word, it was rather lighter than we
Wished it to be. By six o’clock the next morning we had
got near forty miles, though the truth' is, we almost spoiled
our horses, Here we found a Russian village named Ker-
mazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of‘the Kalmuck
Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set out
again,‘and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite'so quiet as before; and, about seven o’clock, we passed
a little river called Kirtza, and came to a good large town
inhabited by Russians, andvery populous, called Ozomoys.
~ There we heard that several troops or hordes 'of Kalmucks had
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely
out of danger of them, which wasto our great satisfaction, you
Arrival at .Hamhnrg. . ' .527
may be sure. Here we ’were obliged to get some fresh horses,
and having need enough of rest, we stayed ve days; and my
partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian who brought
us thither the value of ten pistoles for his conducting us. _
In ve days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river ,
Witzogda, 'and running into the Dwina. We were there, very Ii
happily, near the end of our travels by land, that river being
navigable in seven days’ passage to Archangel. From .hence '
we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd of July; and, providing
ourselves with two luggage-boats, - and a barge for our own
convenience, We embarked the 7th, and arrived a‘ll safe at ‘
,Archangel the 18th, having been a year and ve months and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
and odd days at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this
place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and must have
tarried longer had not a Hamburger come in above a month
sooner than any of the English ships; when, after'some con-
sideration that the city of Hamburg might happen to be as
good a market for our goods as London, we all took freight
with him; and, having put my goods on board, it was most ,
natural for me to put 'my steward on bOard to take care of I
them, by which means my young lord had a sufcient oppor-
tunity to conceal himself, never. coming on shore in all the
time we stayed there; and this he 'did that he might not be ,
seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants would
certainly have seen and discovered him. I _ '
We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August the same
-~year, and, after no extraordinarily bad voyage, arrived in the
Elbe the 13th of September. Here my partner and 'I found a'
very good sale for our goods, as well those of China as the
sables, &c., of Siberia; and dividing the produce of our effects,
my share amounted to £3475 l7 s. 3d, notwithstanding so
-many losses we had sustained, and _charges we had been at,
only remembering that I had included in this about six hundred
' pounds’ worth of diamonds which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and‘went up the
. Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he resolved
- to seek protection, and where he could correspond with those
of his father’s friends who were left alive. He did not part
without all the testimonies he could give me of gratitude for
the service I had done him, and his sense of my kindness to
the prince his father.
To conclude. Having stayed near four months in Hamburg,
I came from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked
in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705, having been absent from England ten years and nine
months. And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am
preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived
seventy-two years a life of innite variety, and learned suf-
ciently to know the value of retirement, and the blessing of
ending our days in peace.



Mancus WARD & 00., ROYAL ULSTER WORKS, Barman
t

Us
a W. roasts»... .utti. a; l. . fiat: .
P
. 7.. |. IA;
7).}; I . I: II II
“ninth-Ah L 1 ‘_...n>a.W|.rn'h .
‘) . 4 . . ‘ ‘.L \x'.. A:
,. . . ., ‘ V .L. ‘.\’.é\n.-;
V A . . #1:. w .. 7‘ .. . . p ‘1;
‘2 . ‘7 V n .. . .. v . ‘ ‘ : v . , . . .le‘. 1.11
wivwg. .4.%%§ “wis‘wwvg. . ‘, ‘ _ . 1 \. .. .. .. . .
i l
.l, -V .1'. l
.- .} Ira.
If
I!) ~
. 19.7.1‘0:..I<P4.:|‘C..4<.- 4‘ ‘1". llf- 115?). h! 1.. . 11> _ I
~ 1 .A V 1...] ~; ‘. 7.1.. . 7. . ;.@ ..,,‘ ... ‘ ,. Q‘ ‘l
. > w . 1 ,A , . ; 1 . 4K u . ' . I . ‘ § pl ,~
. , . , v ‘ v, , . . .. , I I-
V > .. . ‘ 1 K. .. 7“: fl: J‘- 74731:;- w“ v v ..z}. n 3.. .- 4 ~ : . ... v V r . ‘ é “ll...~\‘$l§lr.c 4.044. .M.
. . 52% r ...rr 1 f: .‘ ..1. , t , . x .. .. ., w . .. .. . ... . . r ‘ ‘ ‘ . . ‘ v , i
. .2 I 1013"] 1.. a . z .... ‘ 3 ,.1 . 11‘ . .. .. 1 . .. ‘ . I.» a
, if} VHF-nk,- n- Jail-.1... .... v . . x . .1 .. ._ v . .. , . . x V . . . ‘ .. 41.: v
> . V . ‘u . w .' .v . a . I ‘ . V l .. .- ,.v\- a..‘ .. ._ . . - ». ‘ ‘ ‘ . ~ . '1
. b 1 If ‘ tin-mwur.~ I . . Y l .7 ; ‘ N . ‘ ..Z ...“ . , - . . 2 . , . ‘ u . , . ‘ w . .~ 7 o .
..
I

, 2J0 i
invé?
.‘Lnlru'h.l.l_
‘ .Ln .@
a u
.L.‘ I
faint...
.
.. ....HHn; m1
.. .7 'hlallIiFP-f
. . ,7 1~nrllryQ§ra
k . 3 nrrlw).
mu '9»; .tv .
1‘24! .
. .. ‘4,
a ‘ ' ‘ . . \ x
.\ A , . ‘.-. . ‘ I n ‘ . ... . f . .. ‘- .
._I| ‘Jf Ill-a. . 7.. . I . . . . .. . . . . . ‘ . '
)"l'IDOUIYaW 1" .. 1 z \ . ‘ . . I ‘ .
illk f ‘ ‘ ~801\\o’~.l1.
I 97.9 ‘ L..4.(‘w\~rrf.\ ..
- 41.0.?
.1 ‘ 3»qu
II
\D' \t ‘ ~
( {ll u,~g a
ll QJIIQII
. in {9.51%.
. V 2 ,. .r a.
‘ . ‘ v . . . . I;
w . - t . . . .‘ ‘ . .
V , .\ V I ‘ I v V - < A ‘ a l i _v
. V .. . _ . v . , . . . .
.. ‘ , . . . . . V. . ‘
1200-11".”. “a... ... i I , 1 . . . . . v
. . 7
it). .
..‘u‘vvl.
V .7
AWL-(1‘
.,Y ,. ~
34...!!!
id .3‘!
J
0v
“II-Q
IJ‘
? .
9-»
1 (Cr
‘ R I . .U
1 . - . - ‘ .. . . ‘ Q <- \\ulu|n ..
it . . 5!
~ ‘ . . . .. ... .. P . . '40P:
\NNSJ‘ . . . 1
‘ .
2; 2s
,.3.. ‘r’~'
5“» V?"
."‘ :g
b.
if
I f:.
. LC]. 1‘ . V ((l‘ldbq‘iCHF‘ s . J V
) 81:1»? {kw . .
‘ ,PV‘HIIYV I K1“
7 1 I 1‘ t 1‘4.
_ . , ‘ . , . V w. . . .4 . . . .. , , . . .v. 7 J Anal I. .
‘03. . . l . . . I 7 . ‘ . . v
anihbwuhf. . . . .
. a , ‘ . fl“. .
. , 7‘ . . ,. ‘. . a.)
..15:4,.r.c . , v , . . ‘ .,
V | 7 V
I.) i r
I ~
!
I111 1“ .vav. ‘>|qv.,w.\|l "“1 .‘..v. . f ) I!» ‘. Q.
. v y :1 i . ‘ . .. p 8 ‘
luaunmdamwé. viii»???


‘ v\ 11 ~‘rr..¢r’9i§'.
av vb) \
I, 5" ,II.
luf~fmc$PklllnnMWIny
\ H I
Ana 9 4.5 . at I
. Q..JP¢\371 ‘
. 4§$\v tilimn" ‘ '
