~ I]
The Life £kp Strange Surprizing
ADVENTURES of
ROBINSON
CRUSOE
Of YORK, MARINER
Wholived EightandTwenty Years,allalone in an
un-inhabited Island on the Coast ofAMERiCA,
near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroo-
noque;
Having been caston Shore by Shipwreck, wherein
all the Men perished but himself.
With an Account how he was at last as strangely
deliver'd by Pyrates.
Written by Himself
Volume II
Oxford: Basil Blackwell
Publisher to the Shakespeare Head Press
of Stratford-upon-Avon
1927
SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY COPIES
OF THIS EDITION HAVE BEEN PRINTED
BY TH E S H AKES PEARE H E A D PRESS
STRATFORD-UPON-AVON OF WHICH
SEVEN HUNDREDAND TWENTY COPIES
ARE FOR SALE

Storage
3^3

CONTENTS
"The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures
of Robinson Crusoe page i
The Farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe p. 109
f
THE LIFE AND
ADVENTURES OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
DURING the long Time that Friday has now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and under-
stand me, I was not wanting to lay a Foundation of Relig-
ious Knowledge in his Mind; particularly I ask'd him one
Time who made him? The poor Creature did not under-
stand me at all, but thought I had ask'd him who was his
Father; but I took it by another handle, and ask'd him
who made the Sea, the Ground we walk'd on, and the
Hills, and Woods; he told me it was one old Benamuckee,
that liv'd beyond all: He could describe nothing of this
great Person, but that he was very old; much older he
said than the Sea, or the Land; than the Moon, or the
Stars: I ask'd him then, if this old Person had made all
Things, why did not all Things worship him; he look'd
very grave and with a perfect Look of Innocence, said,
All Things do say O to him: I ask'd him if the People who
die in his Country went away any where; he said, yes,
they all went to Benamuckee: then I ask'd him whether
these they eat up went thither too? He said yes.
From these Things, I began to instruct him in the
Knowledge of the true God: I told him that the great
Maker of all Things liv'd up there, pointing up towards
Heaven: That he governs the World by the same Power
and Providence by which he had made it: That he was
vol. ii b
2 Life & Adventures o/RobinsonCrusoe
I omnipotent, could do every Thing for us, give every
i Thing to us, take every Thing from us; and thus by De-
grees I open'd his Eyes. He listned with great Attention,
and receiv'd with Pleasure the Notion of Jesus Chris! be-
ing sent to redeem us, and of the Manner of making our
Prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
Heaven; he told me one Day, that if our God could hear
us up beyond the Sun, he must needs be a greater God
than their Benamuckee, who liv'd but a little way off, and
yet could not hear, till they went up to the great Moun-
tains where he dwelt, to speak to him; I ask'd him if ever
he went thither, to speak to him; he said no, they never
went that were young Men; none went thither but the
old Men, who he call'd their Oowocakee, that is, as I made
him explain it to me, their Religious, or Clergy, and that
they went to say O, (so he call'd saying Prayers) and then
came back, and told them what Benamuckee said: By this
I observ'd, That there is Prieslcraft, even amongst the
most blinded ignorant Pagans in the World; and the Po-
'licy of making a secret Religion, in order to preserve the
Veneration of the People to the Clergy, is not only to be
found in the Roman, but perhaps among all Religions in
the World, even among the most brutish and barbarous
Savages.
I endeavour'd to clear up this Fraud, to my Man Fri-
day, and told him, that the Pretence of their old Men go-
ing up the Mountains, to say O to their God Benamuckee,
was a Cheat, and their bringing Word from thence what
he said, was much more so; that if they met with any An-
swer, or spake with any one there, it must be with an evil
Spirit: And then I entred into a long Discourse with him
about the Devil, the Original of him, his Rebellion against
God, his Enmity to Man, the Reason of it, his setting
himself up in the dark Parts of the World to be Wor-
ship'd instead of God, and as God; and the many Strata-
gems he made use of to delude Mankind to his Ruine;
how he had a secret access to our Passions, and to our af-
fections, to adapt his Snares so to our Inclinations, as to
cause us even to be our own Tempters, and to run upon
our Destruction by our own Choice.
I found it was not so easie to imprint right Notions in A
his Mind about the Devil, as it was about the Being of a
God. Nature assisted all my Arguments to Evidence to
him, even the Necessity of a great first Cause and over-
ruling governing Power; a secret directing Providence,
and of the Equity, and Justice, of paying Homage to him I /
that made us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of
all this in the Notion of an evil Spirit; of his Original, his
Being, his Nature, and above all of his Inclination to do
Evil, and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor Crea-1
ture puzzl'd me once in such a manner, by a Question I
meerly natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to
say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the
Power of God, his Omnipotence, his dreadful Nature to
Sin, his being a consuming Fire to the Workers of Ini-
quity ; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy us and
all the World in a Moment; and he listen'd with great
Seriousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the Devil was
God's Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and used all his Ma-
lice and Skill to defeat the good Designs of Providence,
and to ruine the Kingdom of Christ in the World; and the
like. Well, says Friday, but you say, God is so strong, so
great, is he not much strong, much might as the Devil?
Yes, yes, says I, Friday, God is stronger than the Devil,
God is above the Devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him down under our Feet, and enable us to resist
his Temptations and quench his fiery Darts. But, says he
again, // God much Strong, much might as the Devil, why
God no kill the Devil, so make him no more do wicked?
-~~ I was strangely surpriz'd at his Question, and after all,
tho' I was now an old Man, yet I was but a young Doctor,
and ill enough quallified for a Casuist, or a Solver of Diffi-
4 Life & Adventures of Robinson Crusoe
tended not to hear him, and ask'd him what he said? But
he was too earnest for an Answer to forget his Question;
so that he repeated it in the very same broken Words, as
above. By this time I had recovered my self a little, and I
said, God will at lasl punish him severely; he is reserv'dfor
vthe Judgment, and is to be casl into the Bottomless-Pit, to
dwell with everlasling Fire: This did not satisfie Friday,
but he returns upon me, repeating my Words, Re s e rve,
at l as t , me no undersland; but, Why not kill the Devil
now, not kill great ago? You may as well ask me, said I,
Why God does not kill you and I, when we do wicked
Things here that offend him? We are preserv'd to repent
and be pardon'd; He muses a while at this; well, well,
says he, mighty affectionately, that well; so you, I, Devil,
all wicked, allpreserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was
J run down again by him to the last Degree, and it was a
Testimony to me, how the meer Notions of Nature,
i though they will guide reasonable Creatures to the Know-
ledge of a God, and of a Worship or Homage due to the
v j supreme Being, of God as the Consequence of our Na-
| ture; yet nothing but divine Revelation can from the
\ Knowledge of Jesus Chrisl, and of a Redemption pur-
! chas'd for us, of a Mediator of the new Covenant, and of
jan Intercessor, at the Foot-stool of God's Throne; I say,
nothing but a Revelation from Heaven, can form these in
the Soul, and that therefore the Gospel of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Chrisl; I mean, the Word of God, and the
Spirit of God promis'd for the Guide and Sanctifier of his
(People, are the absolutely necessary Instructors of the
Souls of Men, in the saving Knowledge of God, and the
Means of Salvation.
I therefore diverted the present Discourse between me
and my Man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden Oc-
casion of going out; then sending him for something a
good way off, I seriously pray'd to God that he would en-
able me to instruct savingly this poor Savage, assisting
by his Spirit the Heart of the poor ignorant Creature, to
receive the Light of the Knowledge of God in Chrisl, re-
conciling him to himself, aridwould guide me to speak so
to him from the Word of God, as his Conscience might
be convinc'd, his Eyes open'd, and his Soul sav'd. When
he came again to me, I entred into a long Discourse with
him upon the Subject of the Redemption of Man by the
Saviour of the World, and of the Doctrine of the Gospel
preach'd from Heaven, viz. of Repentance towards God,
and Faith in our Blessed Lord Jesus. I then explain'd to
him, as well as I could, why our Blessed Redeemer took
not on him the Nature of Angels, but the Seed of Abra-
ham, and how fo,r that Reason the fallen Angels had no
Share in the Redemption; that he came only to the lost
Sheep of the House of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more Sincerity than Knowledge, in
all the Methods I took for this poor Creature's Instruc-
tion, and must acknowledge what I believe all that act
upon the same Principle will find, That in laying Things
open to him, I really inform'd and instructed myself in
many Things, that either I did not know, or had not fully
consider'd before; but which occurr'd naturally to my
Mind, upon my searching into them, for the Informa-
j tion of this poor Savage: and I had more Affection in my
Enquiry after Things upon this Occasion, than ever I
i felt before; so that whether this poor wild Wretch was the
better for me, or no, I had great Reason to be thankful
that ever he came to me: My Grief set lighter upon me,
my Habitation grew comfortable to me beyond Measure;
and when I reflected that in this solitary Life which I had
been confin'd to, I had not only been moved my self to
look up to Heaven, and to seek to the Hand that had
brought me there; but was now to be made an Instru-
ment under Providence to save the Life, and for ought I
knew, the Soul of a poor Savage, and bring him to the
j true Knowledge of Religion, and of the Christian Doc-
\ trine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is
Life eternal. I say, when I reflected upon all these Things,
a secret Joy run through every Part of my Soul, and I fre-
quently rejoyc'd that ever I was brought to this Place,
I which I had so often thought the most dreadful of all Af-
! flictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful Frame I continu'd all the Remainder
of my Time, and the Conversation which employ'd the
Hours between Friday and I, was such, as made the three
Years which we liv'd there together perfectly and com-
pleatly happy, if any such Thing as compleat Happiness can
beformed in a sublunary State. The Savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to
hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted restor'd Penitents; we had here the Word
of God to read, and no farther off from his Spirit to in-
struct, than if we had been in England.
I always apply'd my self in Reading the Scripture, to
let him know, as well as I could, the Meaning of what I
read; and he again, by his serious Enquiries, and Ques-
tionings, made me, as I said before, a much better Scholar
in the Scripture Knowledge, than I should ever have been
by my own private meer Reading. Another thing I can-
not refrain from observing here also from Experience, in
this retir'd Part of my Life, w^How infinite, and inex- \S
pressible a Blessing it is, that the Knowledge of God, and
of the Doctrine of Salvation by Chris! Jesus, is so plainly
laid down in the Word of God; so easy to be receiv'd and
understood: That as the bare reading the Scripture made
me capable of understanding enough of my Duty, to car-
ry me directly on to the great Work of sincere Repentance
for my Sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for Life and Sal-
vation, to a stated Reformation in Practice, and Obedi-
ence to all God's Commands, and this without any Tea-
cher or Instructer; I mean, humane; so the same plain
Instruction sufficiently serv'd to the enlightning this Sa-
vage Creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian,
as I have known few equal to him in my Life.
As to all the Disputes, Wranglings, Strife and Con-
tention, which has happen'd in the World about Religion,
whether Niceties in Doctrines, or Schemes of Church
Government, they were all perfectly useless to us; as for
ought I can yet see, they have been to all the rest of the
World: We had the sure Guide to Heaven, viz. The
Word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable
Views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by I
his Word, leading us into all Truth, and making us both
willing and obedient to the Instruction of his Word, and
I cannot see the least Use that the greatest Knowledge of
the disputed Points in Religion which have made such
Confusions in the World would have been to us, if we
could have obtain'd it; but I must go on with the
Historical Part of Things, and take every Part in its
order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquaint-
ed, and that he could understand almost all I said to him,
and speak fluently, though in broken English to me; I ac-
quainted him with my own Story, or at least so much of it
as related to my coming into the Place, how I had liv'd
there, and how long. I let him into the Mystery, for such
it was to him, of Gunpowder, and Bullet, and taught him
how to shoot: I gave him a Knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with, and I made him a Belt, with a Frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear Hangers in;
and in the Frog, instead of a Hanger, I gave him a Hat-
chet, which was not only as good a Weapon in some
Cases, but much more useful upon other Occasions.
I describ'd to him the Country of Europe, and particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we liv'd, how we
worshipp'd God, how we behav'd to one another; and
how we traded in Ships to all Parts of the World: I gave
him an Account of the Wreck which I had been on board
of, and shew'd him as near as I could, the Place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in Pieces before, and gone.
I shew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we lost
when we escap'd, and which I could not stir with my
whole Strength then; but was now fallen almost to Pieces:
Upon seeing this Boat, Friday stoodmusingagreatwhile,
and said nothing; I ask'd him what it was he study'd up-
on, at last says he, me see such Boat like come to Place at my
Nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but at laSt,
when I had examin'd farther into it, I understood by him,
that a Boat, such as that had been, came on'Shore upon the
Country where he liv'd; that is, as he explain'd it, was
driven thither byStressof Weather: I presentlyimagin'd,
that some European Ship must have been cast away upon
their Coast, and the Boat might get loose, and drive a
Shore; but was so dull, that I never once thought of Men
making escape from a Wreck thither, much less whence
they might come; so I only enquir'd after a Description
of the Boat.
Friday describ'd the Boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added
with some Warmth, we save the White Mans from drown:
Then I presently ask'd him, if there was any white Mans,
as he call'd them, in the Boat; yes, he said, the Boat full
white Mans: I ask'd him how many; he told upon his
Fingers seventeen: I ask'd him then what become of
them; he told me, they live, they dwell at my Nation.
This put new Thoughts into my Head; for I presently
imagin'd, that these might be the Men belonging to the
Ship, that was cast away in Sight of my Island, as I now
call it; and who after the Ship was struck on the Rock,
and they saw her inevitably lost, had sav'd themselves in
their Boat, and were landed upon that wild Shore among
the Savages.
Upon this, I enquir'd of him more critically, What
was become of them? He assur'd me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four Years; that the Sa-
vages let them alone, and gave them Victuals to live. I
ask'd him, How it came to pass they did not kill them and
eat them? He said, No, they make Brother with them; that
is, as I understood him, a Truce: And then he added,
'They no eat Mans but when makes the Warfight; that is to
say, they never eat any Men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in Battle.
It was after this some considerable Time, that being
upon the Top of the Hill, at the Easl Side of the Island,
from whence as I have said, I had in a clear Day dis-
cover'd the Main, or Continent of America; Friday, the
Weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards
the Main Land, and in a kind of Surprise, falls a jumping
and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some Dist-
ance from him: I ask'd him, What was the Matter? O
joy! Says he, O glad! There see my Country, there my Na-
tion!
I observ'd an extraordinary Sense of Pleasure ap-
pear'd in his Face, and his Eyes sparkled, and his Coun-
tenance discover'd a strange Eagerness, as if he had a
Mind to be in his own Country again; and this Observa-
tion of mine, put a great many Thoughts into me, which
made me at first not so easy about my new Man Friday as
I was before; and I made no doubt, but that if Friday
could get back to his own Nation again, he would not on-
ly forget all his Religion, but all his Obligation to me;
and would be forward enough to give his Countrymen an
Account of me, and come back perhaps with a hundred
or two of them, and make a Feast upon me, at which he
might be as merry as he us'd to be with those of his Ene-
mies, when they were taken in War.
But I wrong'd the poor honest Creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However as my
Jealousy encreased, and held me some Weeks, I was a
little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to
him as before; in which I was certainly in the Wrong too,
the honest grateful Creature having no thought about it,
but what consisted with the best Principles, both as a re-
ligious Christian, and as a grateful Friend, as appeared
afterwards to my full Satisfaction.
While my Jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I
was every Day pumping him to see if he would discover
any of the new Thoughts, which I suspected were in him;
but I found every thing he said was so Honest, and so
Innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my Sus-
picion ; and in spight of all my Uneasiness he made me at
last entirely his own again, nor did he in the least per-
ceive that I was Uneasie, and therefore I could not sus-
pect him of Deceit.
One Day walking up the same Hill, but the Weather
being haizy at Sea, so that we could not see the Continent,
I call'd to him, and said, Friday, do not you wish your
self in your own Country, your own Nation ? Yes, he said,
he be much O glad to be at his own Nation. What would you
do there said I, would you turn Wild again, eat Mens
Flesh again, and be a Savage asyou were before. He lookt
full of Concern, and shaking his Head said, No no, Fri-
day tell them to live Good, tell them to pray God, tell them
to eat Corn bread, Cattle-flesh, Milk, no eat Man again .-Why
then said I to him, They will kill you. He look'd grave at
that, and then said, No, they no kill me, they willing love
learn: He meant by this, they would be willing to learn.
He added, they learn'd much of the Bearded-Mans that
come in the Boat. Then I ask'd him if he would go back
to them? He smil'd at that, and told me he could not swim
so far. I told him I would make a Canoe for him. He told
me, he would go, if I would go with him. I go! says I, why
they will Eat me if I come there? No, no, says he, me make
they no Eat you; me make they much Love you: He meant
he would tell them how I had kill'd his Enemies, and
sav'd his Life, and so he would make them love me; then
he told me as well as he could, how kind they were to
seventeen White-men, or Bearded-men, as he call'd them,
who came on Shore there in Distress.
From this time I confess I had a Mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly joyn with these Bearded-men,
who I made no doubt were Spaniards or Portuguese; not
doubting but if I could we might find some Method to
Escape from thence, being upon the Continent, and a
good Company together; better than I could from an Is-
land 40 Miles off the Shore, and alone without Help.
So after some Days I took Friday to work again, by way
of Discourse, and told him I would give him a Boat to go
back to his own Nation; and accordingly I carry'd him to
my Frigate which lay on the other Side of the Island, and
having clear'd it of Water, for I always kept it sunk in the
Water; I brought it out, shewed it him, and we both
went into it.
I found he was a most dextrous Fellow at managing it,
would make it go almost as swift and fast again as Icould;
so when he was in, I said to him, Well now, Friday, shall
we go to your Nation? He look'd very dull at my saying
so, which it seems was, because he thought the Boat too
small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger; so the
next Day I went to the Place where the first Boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into Water:
He said that was big enough; but then as I had taken no
Care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty Years
there, the Sun had split and dry'd it, that it was in a man-
ner rotten. Friday told me such a Boat would do very
well, and would carry much enough Vittle, Drink, Bread,
that was his Way of Talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this Time so fix'd upon my
Design of going over with him to the Continent, that I
told him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answer'd not one Word, but
look'd very grave and sad: I ask'd him what was the mat-
ter with him? He ask'd me again thus; Why, you angry
mad with Friday, what me done? I ask'd him what he
meant; I told him I was not angry with him at all. No an-
gry! No angry! says he, repeating the Words several
Times, Why send Friday home away to my Nation? Why,
(says I) Friday, did you not say you wish'd you were there?
Yes,yes, says he, wish be both there, no wish Friday there, no
Matter there. In a Word, he would not think of going
there without me; I go there! Friday, (says I) what shall I
do there? He turn'd very quick upon me at this: You do
great deal much good, says he, you teach wild Mans be good
sober tame Mans ;you tell them know God, pray God, and live
new Life. Alas! Friday, (says I) thou knowesl not what thou
sayesl, I am but an ignorant Man my self. Yes, yes, says he,
you teachee me Good,you teachee them Good. No, no, Friday,
( says I) you shall go without me, leave me here to live by my
self, as I did before. He look'dconfus'd again at that Word,
and running to one of the Hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it up hastily, comes and gives it me, What
musl I do with this? says I to him. You take, kill Friday;
(says he.) What musl I kill you for? said I again. He returns
very quick, What you send Friday away for? take, kill^Fri-
day, no send Friday away. This he spoke so earnestly, that
I saw Tears stand in his Eyes: In a Word, I so plainly
discover'd the utmost Affection in him to me, and a firm
Resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after,
that I would never send him away from me, if he was wil-
ling to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his Discourse a set-
tled Affection to me, and that nothing should part him
from me, so I found all the Foundation of his Desire to go
to his own Country, was laid in his ardent Affection to the
People, and his Hopes of my doing them good; a Thing
which as I had no Notion of my self, so I had not the least
Thought or Intention, or Desire of undertaking it. But
still I found a strong Inclination to my attempting an
Escape as above, founded on the Supposition gather'd
from the Discourse, (viz.) That there were seventeen
bearded Men there; and therefore, without any more
Delay, I went to Work with Friday to find out a great
Tree proper to fell, and make a large Periagua or Canoe
to undertake the Voyage. There were Trees enough in
the Island to have built a little Fleet, not of Periagua's
and Canoes, but even of good large Vessels. But the main
Thing I look'd at, was to get one so near the Water that
we might launch it when it was made, to avoid the Mis-
take I committed at first.
At last, Friday pitch'd upon a Tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of Wood was fittest
for it, nor can I tell to this Day what Wood to call the
Tree we cut down, except that it was very like the Tree
we call Fuslic, or between that and the Nicaragua Wood,
for it was much of the same Colour and Smell. Friday was
for burning the Hollow or Cavity of this Tree out to make
it for a Boat. But I shew'd him how rather to cut it out
with Tools, which, after I had shew'd him how to use, he
did very handily, and in about a Month's hard Labour,
we finished it, and made it very handsome, especially
when with our Axes, which I shew'd him how to handle,
we cut and hew'd the out-side into the true Shape of a
Boat; after this, however, it cost us near a Fortnight's
Time to get her along as it were Inch by Inch upon great
Rowlers into the Water. But when she was in, she would
have carry'd twenty Men with great Ease.
When she was in the Water, and tho' she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what Dexterity and how swift my
Man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along; so I ask'd him if he would, and if we might ven-
ture over in her; Yes, he said, he venture over in her very
well, tho1 great blow Wind. However, I had a farther De-
sign that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a
Mast and Sail and to fit her with an Anchor and Cable:
As to a Mast, that was easy enough to get; so I pitch'd
upon a strait young Cedar-Tree, which I found near the
Place, and which there was great Plenty of in the Island,
and I set Friday to Work to cut it down, and gave him
Directions how to shape and order it. But as to the Sail,
that was my particular Care; I knew I had old Sails, or
rather Pieces of old Sails enough; but as I had had them
now six and twenty Years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should
ever have this kind of Use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten, and indeed most of them were so;
however, I found two Pieces which appear'd pretty good,
and with these I went to Work, and with a great deal of
Pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be sure)
for Want of Needles, I at length made a three Corner'd
ugly Thing, like what we call in England, a Shoulder of
Mutton Sail, to go with a Boom at bottom, and a little
short Sprit at the Top, such as usually our Ship's Long-
Boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage;
because it was such a one as I had to the Boat, in which I
made my Escape from Barbary, as related in the first Part
of my Story.
I was near two Months performing thislast Work,viz.
rigging and fitting my Mast and Sails; for I finish'd them
very compleat, making a small Stay, and a Sail, or Fore-
sail to it, to assist, if we should turn to Windward; and
which was more than all, I fix'd a Rudder to the Stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was but a bungling Ship-
wright, yet as I knew the Usefulness, and even Necessity
of such a Thing, I apply'd my self with so much Pains to
do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though considering
the many dull Contrivances I had for it that fail'd, I
think it cost me almost as much Labour as making the
Boat.
After all this was done too, I had my Man Friday to
teach as to what belong'd to the Navigation of my Boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle a Canoe, he
knew nothing what belong'd to a Sail, and a Rudder; and
was the most amaz'd, when he saw me work the Boat too
and again in the Sea by the Rudder, and how the Sail
gyb'd, and fill'd this way, or that way, as the Course we
sail'd chang'd; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one,
astonish'd, and amaz'd: However, with a little Use, I
made all these Things familiar to him; and he became an
expert Sailor, except that as to the Compass, I could make
him understand very little of that. On the other hand, as
there was very little cloudy Weather, and seldom or never
any Fogs in those Parts, there was the less occasion for a
Compass, seeing the Stars were always to be seen by
Night, and the Shore by Day, except in the rainy Seasons,
and then no body car'd to stir abroad, either by Land or
Sea.
I was now entred on the seven and twentieth Year of
my Captivity in this Place; though the three last Years
that I had this Creature with me, ought rather to be left
out of the Account, my Habitation being quite of another
kind than in all the rest of the Time. I kept the Anni-
versary of my landing here with the same Thankful-
ness to God for his Mercies, as at first; and if I had such
Cause of Acknowledgment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional Testimonies of the Care of
Providence over me, and the great Hopes I had of being
effectually, and speedily deliver'd; for I had an invincible
Impression upon my Thoughts, that my Deliverance was
at hand, and that I should not be another Year in this
Place: However, I went on with my Husbandry, digging,
planting, fencing, as usual; I gather'd and cur'd my
Grapes, and did every necessary Thing as before.
The rainy Season was in the mean Time upon me,
when I kept more within Doors than at other Times; so I
had stow'd our new Vessel as secure as we could, bring-
ing her up into the Creek, where as I said, in the Begin-
ning I landed my Rafts from the Ship, and haling her up
to the Shore, at high Water mark, I made my Man Friday
dig a little Dock, just big enough to hold her, and just
deep enough to give her Water enough to float in; and
then when the Tide was out, we made a strong Dam cross
the End of it, to keep the Water out; and so she lay dry,
as to the Tide from the Sea; and to keep the Rain off, we
laid a great many Boughs of Trees, so thick, that she was
as well thatch'd as a House; and thus we waited for the
Month of November and December, in which I design'd
to make my Adventure.
When the settled Season began to come in, as the
thought of my Design return'd with the fair Weather, I
was preparing daily for the Voyage; and the first Thing I
did, was to lay by a certain Quantity of Provisions, being
the Stores for our Voyage; and intended in a Week or a
_ Fortnight's Time, to open the Dock, and launch out our
Boat. I was busy one Morning upon some Thing of this
kind, when I call'd to Friday, and bid him go to the Sea
Shore, and see if he could find a Turtle, or Tortoise, a
Thing which we generally got once a Week, for the Sake
vol. 11 c
of the Eggs, as well as the Flesh: Friday had not been long
gone, when he came running back, and flew over my
outer Wall, or Fence, like one that felt not the Ground,
or the Steps he set his Feet on; and before I had time to
speak to him, he cries out to me, O Masler! O Masler! O
Sorrow! O bad! What's the Matter, Friday, says I; Oyon-
der, there, says he, one, two, three Canoe! one, two, three!
By his way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but
on enquiry, I found it was but three: Well, Friday, says I,
do not be frighted; so I heartned him up as well as I could:
However, I saw the poor Fellow was most terribly scar'd;
for nothing ran in his Head but that they were come to
look for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and eat him;
and the poor Fellow trembled so, that I scarce knew what
to do with him: I comforted him as well as I could, and
told him I was in as much Danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him; but, says I, Friday, we musl re-
solve to fight them; Can you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he,
but there come many great Number. No matter for that, said
I again, our Guns will fright them that we do not kill; so
I ask'd him, Whether if I resolv'd to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him? He said, Me die, when you bid die, Masler; so I went
and fetch'd a good Dram of Rum, and gave him; for I had
been so good a Husband of my Rum, that I had a great
deal left: When he had drank it, I made him take the two
Fowling-Pieces, which we always carry'd, and load them
with large Swan-Shot, as big as small Pistol Bullets; then
I took four Muskets, and loaded them with two Slugs,
and five small Bullets each; and my two Pistols I loaded
with a Brace of Bullets each; I hung my great Sword as
usual, naked by my Side, and gave Friday his Hatchet.
When I had thus prepar'd my self, I took my Perspec-
tive-Glass, and went up to the Side of the Hill, to see what
I could discover; and I found quickly, by my Glass, that
there were one and twenty Savages, three Prisoners, and
three Canoes; and that their whole Business seem'd to
be the triumphant Banquet upon these three humane
Bodies, (a barbarous Feast indeed) but nothing more than
as I had observ'd was usual with them.
I observ'd also, that they were landed not where they
had done, when Friday made his Escape; but nearer to
my Creek, where the Shore was low, and where a thick
Wood came close almost down to the Sea: This, with the
Abhorrence of the inhumane Errand these Wretches
came about, fill'd me with such Indignation, that I came
down again to Friday, and told him, I was resolv'd to go
down to them, and kill them all; and ask'd him, If he
would stand by me? He was now gotten over his Fright,
and his Spirits being a little rais'd, with the Dram I had
given him, he was very chearful, and told me, as before,
he would die, when I bid die.
In this Fit of Fury, I took first and divided the Arms
which I had charg'd, as before, between us; I gave Friday
one Pistol to stick in his Girdle, and three Guns upon his
Shoulder; and I took one Pistol, and the other three my
self; and in this Posture we march'd out: I took a small
Bottle of Rum in my Pocket, and gave Friday a large Bag,
with more Powder and Bullet; and as to Orders, I charg'd
him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or
do any Thing, till I bid him; and in the mean Time, not
to speak a Word: In this Posture I fetch'd a Compass to
my Right-Hand, of near a Mile, as well to get over the
Creek, as to get into the Wood; so that I might come
within shoot of them, before I should be discover'd, which
I had seen by my Glass, it was easy to do.
While I was making this March, my former Thoughts
returning, I began to abate my Resolution; I do not mean,
that I entertain'd any Fear of their Number; for as they
were naked, unarm'd Wretches, 'tis certain I was superior
to them; nay, though I had been alone; but it occurr'd to
my Thoughts, What Call? What Occasion? much less,
What Necessity I was in to go and dip my Hands in
Blood, to attack People, who had neither done, or intend-
ed me any Wrong? Who as to me were innocent, and
whose barbarous Customs were their own Disaster, be-
ing in them a Token indeed of God's having left them,
with the other Nations of that Part of the World, to such
Stupidity, and to such inhumane Courses; but did not
call me to take upon me to be a Judge of their Actions,
much less an Executioner of his Justice; that whenever
he thought fit, he would take the Cause into his own
Hands, and by national Vengeance punish them as a Peo-
ple, for national Crimes; but that in the mean time, it was
none of my Business; that it was true, Friday might justify
it, because he was a declar'd Enemy, and in a State of
War with those very particular People; and it was lawful
for him to attack them; but I could not say the same with
respect to me: These Things were so warmly press'd up-
on my Thoughts, all the way as I went, that I resolv'd I
would only go and place my self near them, that I might
observe their barbarous Feast, and that I would act then
as God should direct; but that unless something offer'd
that was more a Call to me than yet I knew of, I would not
meddle with them.
With this Resolution I enter'd the Wood, and with all
possible Waryness and Silence, Friday following close at
my Heels, I march'd till I came to the Skirt of the Wood,
on the Side which was next to them; only that one Corner
of the Wood lay between me and them; here I call'd softly
to Friday, and shewing him a great Tree, which was jusl:
at the Corner of the Wood, I bad him go to the Tree, and
bring me Word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing; he did so, and came immediately back to me,
and told me they might be plainly view'd there; that they
were all about their Fire, eating the Flesh of one of their
Prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the Sand, a
little from them, which he said they would kill next, and
which fir'd all the very Soul within me; he told me it was
not one of their Nation; but one of the bearded Men,
who he had told me of, that came to their Country in the
Boat: I was fill'd with Horror at the very naming the
white-bearded Man, and going to the Tree, I saw plainly
by my Glass, a white Man who lay upon the Beach of the
Sea, with his Hands and his Feet ty'd, with Flags, or
Things like Rushes; and that he was an European, and
had Cloaths on.
There was another Tree, and a little Thicket beyond
it, about fifty Yards nearer to them than the Place where
I was, which by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscover'd, and that then I should be within
half Shot of them; so I with-held my Passion, though I
was indeed enrag'd to the highest Degree, and going back
about twenty Paces, I got behind some Bushes, which
held all the way, till I came to the other Tree; and then I
came to a little rising Ground, which gave me a full View
of them, at the Distance of about eighty Yards.
I had now not a Moment to loose; for nineteen of the
dreadful Wretches sat upon the Ground, all close hud-
dled together, and had jusl; sent the other two to butcher
the poor Christian, and bring him perhaps Limb by Limb
to their Fire, and they were stoop'd down to untie the
Bands, at his Feet; I turn'd to Friday, now Friday, said I,
do as I bid thee; Friday said he would; then Friday, says I,
do exactly as you see me do, fail in nothing; so I set down
one of the Muskets, and the Fowling-Piece, upon the
Ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
Musket, I took my aim at the Savages, bidding him do
the like; then asking him, If he was ready? He said, yes,
then fire at them, said I; and the same Moment I fir'd
also.
Friday took his Aim so much better than I, that on the
Side that he shot, he kill'd two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my Side, I kill'd one, and wounded
two: They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful Constern-
ation ; and all of them, who were not hurt, jump'd up upon
their Feet, but did not immediately know which way to
run, or which way to look: for they knew not from whence
their Destruction came: Friday kept his Eyes close upon
me, that as I had bid him, he might observe what I did;
so as soon as the first Shot was made, I threw down the
Piece, and took up the Fowling-Piece, and Friday did the
like; he see me cock, and present, he did the same again;
Are you ready? Friday, said I; yes, says he; let fly then,
says I, in the Name of God, and with that I fir'd again
among the amaz'd Wretches, and so did Friday; and as
our Pieces were now loaden with what I call'd Swan-Shot,
or small Pistol Bullets, we found only two drop; but so
'many were wounded, that they run about yelling, and
skreaming, like mad Creatures, all bloody, and miserably
wounded, most of them; whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
Now Friday, says I, laying down the discharg'd Pieces,
and taking up the Musket, which was yet loaden; follow
me, says I; which he did, with a great deal of Courage;
upon which I rush'd out of the Wood, and shew'd my
self, and Friday close at my Foot; as soon as I perceiv'd
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bad Friday
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way,
was not very fait, being loaden with Arms as I was, I made
directly towards the poor Victim, who was, as I said, ly-
ing upon the Beach, or Shore, between the Place where
they sat, and the Sea; the two Butchers who were just
going to work with him, had left him, at the Suprize of
our first Fire, and fled in a terrible Fright, to the Sea Side,
and had jump'd into a Canoe, and three more of the rest
made the same way; I turn'd to Friday, and bid him step
forwards, and fire at them; he understood me immediate-
ly, and running about forty Yards, to be near them, he
shot at them, and I thought he had kill'd them all; for I
see them all fall of a Heap into the Boat; though I saw
two of them up again quickly: However, he kill'd two of
them, and wounded the third; so that he lay down in the
Bottom of the Boat, as if he had been dead.
While my Man Friday fir'd at them, I pull'd out my
Knife, and cut the Flags that bound the poor Victim, and
loosing his Hands, and Feet, I lifted him up, and ask'd
him in the PortugueseTongue,What he was?He answer'd
in Latin, Chrislianus; but was so weak, and faint, that he
could scarce stand, or speak; I took my Bottle out of my
Pocket, and gave it him, making Signs that he should
drink, which he did; and I gave him a Piece of Bread,
which he eat; then I ask'd him, What Countryman he
was? And he said, Espagniole; and being a little recover'd,
let me know by all the Signs he could possibly make, how
much he was in my Debt for his Deliverance; Seignior, said
I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, we will talk
afterwards ;butwe must fight now; ifyouhaveany Strength
left, take this Pistol, and Sword, and lay about you; he
took them very thankfully, and no sooner had he the
Arms in his Hands, but as if they had put new Vigour in-
to him, he flew upon his Murtherers, like a Fury, and had
cut two of them in Pieces, in an instant; for the Truth is,
as the whole was a Surprize to them; so the poor Crea-
tures were so much frighted with the Noise of our Pieces,
that they fell down for meer Amazement, and Fear; and
had no more Power to attempt their own Escape, than
their Flesh had to resist our Shot; and that was the Case
of those Five that Friday shot at in the Boat; for as three of
them fell with the Hurt they receiv'd; so the other two fell
with the Fright.
I kept my Piece in my Hand still, without firing, being
willing to keep my Charge ready; because Lhad given the
Spaniard my Pistol, and Sword; so I call'd to Friday, and
bad him run up to the Tree, from whence we first fir'd,
and fetch the Arms which lay there, that had been dis-
charg'd, which he did with great Swiftness; and then giv-
ing him my Musket, I sat down my self to load all the
rest again, and bad them come to me when they wanted:
While I was loading these Pieces, there happen'd a fierce
Engagement between the Spaniard, and one of the Sa-
vages, who made at him with one of their great wooden
Swords, the same Weapon that was to have kill'd him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it: The Spaniard, who was as
bold, and as brave as could be imagin'd, though weak,
had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two
great Wounds on his Head; but the Savage being a stout
lusty Fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down
(being faint) and was wringing my Sword out of his
Hand, when the Spaniard, tho' undermost, wisely quit-
ting the Sword, drew the Pistol from his Girdle, shot the
Savage through the Body, and kill'd him upon the Spot;
before I, who was running to help him, could come near
him.
Friday being now left to his Liberty, pursu'd the fly-
ing Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand, but his Hat-
chet; and with that he dispatch'd those three, who, as I
said before, were wounded at firsl: and fallen, and all the
resl: he could come up with, and the Spaniard coming to
me for a Gun, I gave him one of the Fowling-Pieces, with
which he pursu'd two of the Savages, and wounded them
both; but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the Wood, where Friday pursu'd them, and
kill'd one of them; but the other was too nimble for him,
and though he was wounded, yet had plunged himself
into the Sea, and swam with all his might off to those two
who were left in the Canoe, which three in the Canoe, with
one wounded, who we know not whether he dy'd or no,
were all that escap'd our Hands of one and twenty: The
Account of the Resl: is as follows;
3 Kill'd at our firsl Shot from the Tree.
2 Kill'd at the next Shot.
2 Kill'd by Friday in the Boat.
2 Kill'd by Ditto, of those at firsl: wounded.
1 Kill'd by Ditto, in the Wood.
3 Kill'd by the Spaniard.
4 Kill'd, being found dropp'd here and there of their
Wounds, or kill'd by Friday in his Chase of them.
4 Escap'd in the Boat, whereof one wounded if not
dead.
21 In all.
Those that were in the Canoe, work'd hard to get out
of Gun-Shot; and though Friday made two or three Shot
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them: Friday
would fain have had me took one of their Canoes, and pur-
su'd them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
Escape, least carrying the News home to their People,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hun-
dred of their Canoes, and devour us by meer Multitude;
so I consented to pursue them by Sea, and running to one
of their Canoes, I jump'd in, and bad Friday follow me; but
when I was in the Canoe, I was surpriz'd to find another
poor Creature lye there alive, bound Hand and Foot, as
the Spaniard was, for the Slaughter, and almost dead with
Fear, not knowing what the Matter was; for he had not
been able to look up over the Side of the Boat, he was ty'd
so hard, Neck and Heels, and had been ty'd so long, that
ue had really but little Life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted Flags, or Rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him up;
but he could not stand, or speak, but groan'd most pite-
ously, believing it seems still that he was only unbound
in order to be kill'd.
When Friday came to him, I bad him speak to him, and
tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling out my Bottle,
made him give the poor Wretch a Dram, which, with the
News of his being deliver'd, reviv'd him, and he sat up in
the Boat; but when Friday came to hear him speak, and
look in his Face, it would have mov'd any one to Tears, to
have seen how Friday kiss'd him, embrac'd him, hugg'd
him, cry'd, laugh'd, hollow'd, jump'd about, danc'd,
sung, then cry'd again, wrung his Hands, beat his own
Face, and Head, and then sung, andjump'd about again,
like a distracted Creature: It was a good while before I
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the
Matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told me,
that it was his Father.
It is not easy for me to express how it mov'd me to see
what Extasy and filial Affedtion had work'd in this poor
Savage, at the Sight of his Father, and of his being de-
liver'd from Death; nor indeed can I describe half the
Extravagancies of his Affection after this; for he went in-
to the Boat and out of the Boat a great many times: When
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his
Breast, and hold his Father's Head close to his Bosom,
half an Hour together, to nourish it; then he took his
Arms apd Ankles, which were numb'd and stiff with the
Binding, and chaffed and rubbed them with his Hands;
and I perceiving what the Case was, gave him some Rum
out of my Bottle, to rub them with, which did them
great deal of Good.
This Action put an End to our Pursuit of the Canoe,
with the other Savages, who were now gotten almost out
of Sight; and it was happy for us that we did not; for it
blew so hard within two Hours after, and before they
could be gotten a Quarter of their Way, and continued
blowing so hard all Night, and that from the North-wesl,
which was against them, that I could not suppose their
Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd to their own
Coast.
But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his Fa-
ther, that I could not find in my Heart to take him off for
some time: But after I thought he could leave him a little,
I call'd him to me, and he came jumping and laughing,
and pleas'd to the highest Extream; then I ask'd him, If
he had given his Father any Bread? He shook his Head,
and said, None: Ugly Dog eat all up self; so I gave him a
Cake of Bread out of a little Pouch I carry'd on Purpose;
I also gave him a Dram for himself, but he would not taste
it, but carry'd it to his Father: I had in my Pocket also
two or three Bunches of my Raisins, so I gave him a Hand-
ful of them for his Father. He had no sooner given his
Father these Raisins, but I saw him come out of the Boat,
and run away, as if he had been bewitch'd, he run at such
a Rate; for he was the swiftest Fellow of his Foot that ever
I saw; I say, he run at such a Rate, that he was out of
Sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I call'd, and
hollow'd too, after him, it was all one, away he went, and
in a Quarter of an Hour, I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I
found his Pace was slacker, because he had something in
his Hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
Home for an Earthen Jugg or Pot to bring his Father
some fresh Water, and that he had got two more Cakes,
or Loaves of Bread: The Bread he gave me, but the Wa-
ter he carry'd to his Father: However, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little Sup of it. This Water reviv'd his
Father more than all the Rum or Spirits I had given him;
for he was just fainting with Thirst.
When his Father had drank, I call'd to him to know if
there was any Water left; he said, yes; and I bad him give
it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much Want of it as
his Father; and I sent one of the Cakes, that Friday
brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green Place under the
Shade of a Tree; and whose Limbs were also very stiff,
and very much swell'd with the rude Bandage he had
been ty'd with. When I saw that upon Friday's coming to
him with the Water, he sat up and drank, and took the
Bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave him a
Handful of Raisins; he look'd up in my Face with all the
Tokens of Gratitude and Thankfulness, that could ap-
pear in any Countenance; but was so weak, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the Fight, that he
could not stand up upon his Feet; he try'd to do it two or
three times, but was really not able, his Ankles were so
swell'd and so painful to him; so I bad him sit still, and
caused Friday to rub his Ankles, and bathe them with
Rum, as he had done his Father's.
I observ'd the poor affectionate Creature every two
Minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn'd
his Head about, to see if his Father was in the same Place,
and Posture, as he left him sitting; and at last he found he
was not to be seen; at which he started up, and without
speaking a Word, flew with that Swiftness to him, that
one could scarce perceive his Feet to touch the Ground,
as he went: But when he came, he only found he had laid
himself down to ease his Limbs; so Friday came back to
me presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Fri-
day help him up if he could, and lead him to the Boat, and
then he should carry him to our Dwelling, where I would
take Care of him: But Friday, a lusty strong Fellow, took
the Spaniard quite up upon his Back, and carry'd him
away to the Boat, and set him down softly upon the Side
or Gunnel of the Canoe, with his Feet in the inside of it,
and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to his Fa-
ther, and presently stepping out again, launched the Boat
off, and paddled it along the Shore faster than I could
walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty hard too; so he brought
them both safe into our Creek; and leaving them in the
Boat, runs away to fetch the other Canoe. As he pass'd
me, I spoke to him, and ask'd him, whither he went, he
told me, Go fetch more Boat; so away he went like the
Wind; for sure never Man or Horse run like him, and he
had the other Canoe in the Creek, almost as soon as I got
to it by Land; so he wafted me over, and then went to
help our new Guests out of the Boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk; so that poor Fri-
day knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to Work in my Thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the Bank while
he came to me, I soon made a Kind of Hand-Barrow to
lay them on, and Friday and I carry'd them up both to-
gether upon it between us: But when we got them to the
outside of our Wall or Fortification, we were at a worse
Loss than before; for it was impossible to get them over;
and I was resolv'd not to break it down: So I set to Work
again; and Friday and I, in about 2 Hours time, made a
very handsom Tent,'cover'd with old Sails, and above that
with Boughs of Trees, being in the Space without our
outward Fence, and between that and the Grove of young
Wood which I had planted: And here we made them two
Beds of such things as I had (viz.) of good Rice-Straw,
with Blankets laid upon it to lye on, and another to cover
them on each Bed.
My Island was now peopled, and I thought my self
very rich in Subjects; and it was a merry Reflection which
I frequently made, How like a King I look'd. First of all,
the whole Country was my own meer Property; so that I
had an undoubted Right of Dominion, idly, My People
were perfectly subjected: I was absolute Lord and Law-
giver ; they all owed their Lives to me, and were ready to
lay down their Lives, if there had been Occasion of it, for
me. It was remarkable too, we had but three Subjects,and
they were of three different Religions. My Man Friday
was a Protestant, his Father was a Pagan and a Cannibal,
and the Spaniard was a Papist: However, I allow'd Li-
berty of Conscience throughout my Dominions: But
this is by the Way.
As soon as I had secur'd my two weak rescued Prison-
ers, and given them Shelter, and a Place to rest them up-
on, I began to think of making some Provision for them:
And the first thing I did, I order'd Friday to take a year-
ling Goat, betwixt a Kid and a Goat, out of my particular
Flock, to be kill'd, when I cut off the hinder Quarter, and
chopping it into small Pieces, I set Friday to Work to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good Dish, I
assure you, of Flesh and Broth, having put some Barley
and Rice also into the Broth; and as I cook'd it without
Doors, for I made no Fire within my inner Wall, so I car-
ry'd it all into the new Tent; and having set a Table there
for them, I sat down and eat my own Dinner also with
them, and, as well as I could, chear'd them and encou-
rag'd them; Friday being my Interpreter, especially to
his Father, and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the
Spaniard spoke the Language of the Savages pretty
well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I order'd Friday
to take one of the Canoes, and go and fetch our Muskets
and other Fire-Arms, which for Want of time we had left
upon the Place of Battle, and the next Day I order'd him
to go and bury the dead Bodies of the Savages, which lay
open to the Sun, and would presently be offensive; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid Remains of their bar-
barous Feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which
I could not think of doing my self; nay, I could not bear
to see them, if I went that Way: All which he punctually
performed, and defaced the very Appearance of the Sa-
vages being there; so that when I went again, I could
scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the Corner
of the Wood pointing to the Place.
I then began to enter into a little Conversation with
my two new Subjects; and first I set Friday to enquire of
his Father, what he thought of the Escape of the Savages
in that Canoe, and whether we might expect a Return of
them with a Power too great for us to resist: His first
Opinion was, that the Savages in the Boat never could
live out the Storm which blew that Night they went off,
but must of Necessity be drowned or driven South to those
other Shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as
they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but as to
what they would do if they came safe on Shore, he said he
knew not; but it was his Opinion that they were so dread-
fully frighted with the Manner of their being attack'd,
the Noise and the Fire, that he believed they would tell
their People, they were all kill'd by Thunder and Light-
ning, not by the Hand of Man, and that the two which
appear'd, (viz.) Friday and me, were two Heavenly Spi-
rits or Furies, come down to destroy them, and not Men
with Weapons: This he said he knew, because he heard
them all cry out so in their Language to one another, for
it was impossible to them to conceive that a Man could
dart Fire, and speak Thunder, and kill at a Distance with-
out lifting up the Hand, as was done now: And this old
Savage was in the right; for, as I understood since by
other Hands, the Savages never attempted to go over to
the Island afterwards; they were so terrified with the Ac-
counts given by those four Men, (for it seems they did
escape the Sea) that they believ'd whoever went to that
enchanted Island would be destroy'd with Fire from the
Gods.
This however I knew not, and therefore was under
continual Apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my Guard, me and all my Army; for as
we were now four of us, I would have ventur'd upon
a hundred of them fairly in the open Field at any
Time.
In a little Time, however, no more Canoes appearing,
the Fear of their Coming wore off, and I began to take
my former Thoughts of a Voyage to the Main into Con-
sideration, being likewise assur'd by Friday's Father,
that I might depend upon good Usage from their Nation
on his Account, if I would go.
But my Thoughts were a little suspended, when I had
a serious Discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under-
stood that there were sixteen more of his Countrymen
and Portuguese, who having been cast away, and made
their Escape tothat Side, liv'd there at Peace indeed with
the Savages, but were very sore put to it for Necessaries,
andindeedforLife: I ask'dhimall the Particulars of their
Voyage ,and found they were a Spanish Ship bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havana, being directed to leave
their Loading there which was chiefly Hides and Silver,
and to bring back what European Goods they could meet
with there ;thatthey had five PortugueseSenmen on Board,
who they took out of another Wreck; that five of their
own Men were drowned when the first ship was lost, and
that theseescaped thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and
arriv'd almost starv'd on the. Cannibal Coast, where they
expefted to have been devour'd every Moment.
He told me, they had some Arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither Powder
or Ball, the Washing of the Sea having spoil'd all their
vol. 11 d
Powder but a little, which they used at their first Landing
to provide themselves some Food.
I ask'd him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had form'd no Design of making any
Escape? He said, They had many Consultations about it,
but that having neither Vessel, or Tools to build one, or
Provisions of any kind, their Councils always ended in
Tears and Despair.
I ask'd him how he thought they would receive a Pro-
posal from me, which might tend towards an Escape?
And whether, if they were all here, it might not be done?
I told him with Freedom, I fear'd mostly their Treachery
and ill Usage of me, if I put my Life in their Hands; for
that Gratitude was no inherent Virtue in the Nature of
Man; nor did Men always square their Dealings by the
Obligations they had receiv'd, so much as they did by the
Advantages they expected. I told him it would be very
hard, that I should be the Instrument of their Deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their Prisoner
in New Spain, where an English Man was certain to be
made a Sacrifice, what Necessity, or what Accident so-
ever, brought him thither: And that I had rather be de-
liver'd up to the Savages, and be devour'd alive, than fall
into the merciless Claws of the Priests, and be carry'd in-
to the Inquisition. I added, That otherwise I was perswad-
ed, if they were all here, we might, with so many Hands,
build a Bark large enough to carry us all away, either to
the Brasils South-ward, or to the Islands or Spanish Coast
North-ward: But that if in Requital they should, when I
had put Weapons into their Hands, carry me by Force
among their own People, I might be ill used for my Kind-
ness to them, and make my Case worse than it was before.
He answer'dwith a great deal of Candor and Ingenuity,
That their Condition was so miserable, and they were so
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the
thought of using any Man unkindly that should contri-
bute to their Deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would
go to them with the old Man, and discourse with them
about it, and return again, and bring me their Answer:
That he would make Conditions with them upon their
solemn Oath, That they should be absolutely under my
Leading, as their Commander and Captain; and that they
should swear upon the Holy Sacraments and the Gospel,
to be true to me, and to go to such Christian Country, as
that I should agree to, and no other; and to be directed
whollyandabsolutely by my Orders, 'till they were land-
ed safely in such Country, as I intended; and that he
would bring a Contract from them under their Hands for
that Purpose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me himself,
That he would never stir from me as long as he liv'd, 'till
I gave him Orders; and that he would take my Side to the
last Drop of his Blood, if there should happen the least
Breach of Faith among his Country-men.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honest
Men, and they were under the greatest Distress imagin-
able, having neither Weapons or Cloaths, nor any Food,
but at the Mercy and Discretion of the Savages; out of all
Hopes of ever returning to their own Country; and that
he was sure, if I would undertake their Relief, they would
live and die by me.
Upon these Assurances, I resolv'd to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old Savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: But when we had got-
ten all things in a Readiness to go, the Spaniard himself
started an Objection, which had so much Prudence in it
on one hand, and so much Sincerity on the other hand,
that I could not but be very well satisfy'd in it; and by his
Advice, put off the Deliverance of his Comerades, for at
least half a Year. The Case was thus:
He had been with us now about a Month; during
which time, I had let him see in what Manner I had pro-
vided, with the Assistance of Providence, for my sup-
port ; and he saw evidently what Stock of Corn and Rice
I had laid up; which as it was more than sufficient for my-
self, so it was not sufficient, at least without good Hus-
bandry, for my Family; now it was encreas'd to Number
four: But much less would it be sufficient, if his Country-
men,whowere, ashe said, fourteen still alive, should come
over. And least of all should it be sufficient to victual our
Vessel, if we should build one, for a Voyage to any of the
Christian Colonies of America. So he told me, he thought
it would be more advisable, to let him and the two other,
dig and cultivate some more Land, as much as I could
spare Seed to sow; and that we should wait another Har-
vest, that we might have a Supply of Corn for his Country-
men when they should come; for Want might be a Temp-
tation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves de-
livered, otherwise than out of one Difficulty into another.
You know, says he, the Children of Israel, though they
rejoyc'd at first for their being deliver'd out of Egypt, yet
rebell'd even against God himself that deliver'd them,
when they came to want Bread in the Wilderness.
His Caution was so seasonable, and his Advicesogood,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his Propo-
sal, as well as I was satisfy'd with his Fidelity. So we fell
to digging all four of us, as well as the Wooden Tools we
were furnish'd with permitted; and in about a Month's
time, by the End of which it was Seed time, we had got-
ten as much Land cur'd and trim'd up, as we sowed 22
Bushels of Barley on, and 16 Jarrs of Rice, which was in
short all the Seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave
our selves Barley sufficient for our own Food, for the six
Months that we had to expecl: our Crop, that is to say,
reckoning from the time we set our Seed aside for sow-
ing; for it is not to be supposed it is six Months in the
Ground in the Country.
Having now Society enough, and our Number being
sufficient to put us out of Fear of the Savages, if they had
come, unless their Number had been very great, we went
freely all over the Island, where-ever we found Occasion;
and as here we had our Escape or Deliverance upon our
Thoughts, it was impossible, at leasl for me, to have the
Means of it out of mine; to this Purpose, I mark'd out
several Trees which I thought fit for our Work, and I set
Friday and his Father to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my Thought
on that Affair, to oversee and direcl: their Work. I shewed
them with what indefatigable Pains I had hewed a large
Tree into single Planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a Dozen large Planks of good
Oak, near 2 Foot broad, 35 Foot long, and from 2 Inches
to 4 Inches thick: What prodigious Labour it took up,
any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to encrease my little
Flock of tame Goats as much as I could; and to this Pur-
pose, I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one Day, and
my self with Friday the next Day; for we took our Turns:
And by this Means we got above 20 young Kids to breed
up with the resl:; for when-ever we shot the Dam, we sav-
ed the Kids, and added them to our Flock: But above all,
the Season for curing the Grapes coming on, I caused
such a prodigious Quantity to /be hung up in the Sun,
that I believe, had we been at jllicant, where the Raisins
of the Sun are cur'd, we could l/ave fill'd 60 or 80 Barrels;
and these with our Bread was a great Part of our Food,
and very good living too, I assure you; for it is an exceed-
ing nourishing Food.
It was now Harvest, and our Crop in good Order; it
was not the most plentiful Encrease I had seen in the Is-
land, but however it was enough to answer our End; for
from our 2 2 Bushels of Barley, we brought in and thrash-
ed out above 220 Bushels; and the like in Proportion of
the Rice, which was Store enough for our Food to the
next Harvest,tho' all the 16 Spaniards had been on Shore
with me; or if we had been ready for a Voyage, it would
very plentifully have victualled our Ship, to have carry'd
us to any Part of the World, that is to say, of America.
When we had thus hous'd and secur'd our Magazine
of Corn, we fell to Work to make more Wicker Work,
(viz.) great Baskets in which we kept it; and the Spaniard
was very handy and dexterous at this Part, and often
blam'd me that I did not make some things, for Defence,
of this Kind of Work; but I saw no Need of it.
And now having a full Supply of Food for all the
Guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard Leave to go over
to the Main, to see what he could do with those he had
left behind him there. I gave him a strict Charge in Writ-
ing, Not to bring any Man with him, who would not first
swear in the Presence of himself and of the old Savage,
That he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the
Person he should find in the Island, who was so kind to
send for them in order to their Deliverance; but that they
would stand by and defend him against all such At-
tempts, and where-ever they went, would be entirely un-
der and subjected to his Commands; and that this should
be put in Writing, and signed with their Hands: How we
were to have this done, when I knew they had neither Pen
or Ink; that indeed was a Question which we never asked.
Under these Instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
Savage the Father of Friday, went away in one of the Ca-
noes, which they might be said to come in, or rather were
brought in, when they came as Prisoners to be devour'd
by the Savages.
I gave each of them a Musket with a Firelock on it, and
about eight Charges of Powder and Ball, charging them
to be very good Husbands of both, and not to use either
of them but upon urgent Occasion.
This was a chearful Work, being the first Measures
used by me in view of my Deliverance for now 27 Years
and some Days. I gave them Provisions of Bread, and of
dry'd Grapes, sufficient for themselves for many Days,
and sufficient for all their Country-men for about eight
Days time; and wishing them a good Voyage, I see them
go, agreeing with them about a Signal they should hang
out at their Return, by which I should know them again,
when they came back, at a Distance, before they came on
Shore.
They went away with a fair Gale on the Day that the
Moon was at Full by my Account, in the Month of Octo-
ber: But as for an exacT: Reckoning of Days, after I had
once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept
even the Number of Years so punctually, as to be sure
that I was right, tho' as it prov'd, when I afterwards ex-
amin'd my Account, I found I had kept a true Reckoning
of Years.
It was no less than eight Days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen Accident interven'd, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in History:
I was fast asleep in my Hutch one Morning, when my
Man Friday came running in to me, and call'd aloud,
Master, Master, they are come, they are come.
I jump'd up, and regardless of Danger, I went out, as
soon as I could get my Cloaths on, thro' my little Grove,
which by the Way was by this time grown to be a very
thick Wood; I say, regardless of Danger, I went without
my Arms, which was not my Custom to do: But I was
surpriz'd, when turning my Eyes to the Sea, I presently
saw a Boat at about a league and half s Distance, standing
in for the Shore, with a Shoulder of Mutton Sail, as they call
it; and the Wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in; also
I observ'd presently, that they did not come from that Side
which the Shore lay on, but from the Southermost End
of the Island: Upon this I call'd Friday in, and bid him lie
close, for these were not the People we look'd for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were Friends
or Enemies.
In the next Place, I went in to fetch my Perspective
Glass, to see what I could make of them; and having tak-
en the Ladder out, I climb'd up to the Top of the Hill,
as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any thing, and
to take my View the plainer without being discover'd.
I had scarce set my Foot on the Hill, when my Eye
plainly discover'd a Ship lying at an Anchor, at about two
Leagues and an half's Distance from me South-south-
east, but not above a League and an half from the Shore.
By my Observation it appear'd plainly to be an Eng-
lish Ship, and the Boat appear'd to be an English Long-
Boat.
I cannot express the Confusion I was in, tho' the Joy
of seeing a Ship, and one who I had Reason to believe was
Mann'd by my own Country-men, and consequently
Friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had
some secret Doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my Guard. In
the first Place, it occurr'd to me to consider what Business
an English Ship could have in that part of the World, since
it was not the Way to or from any Part of the World,
where the English had any Traffick; and I knew there had
been no Storms to drive them in there, as in Distress; and
that if they were English really, it was most probable that
they were here upon no good Design; and that I had bet-
ter continue as I was, than fall into the Hands of Thieves
and Murtherers.
Let no Man despise the secret Hints and Notices of \)
Danger, which sometimes are given him, when he may
think there is no Possibility of its being real. That such
Hints and Notices are given us, I believe few that have
made any Observations of things, can deny; that they are
certain Discoveries of an invisible World, and a Converse
of Spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the Tendency of them
seems to be to warn us of Danger, why should we not sup-
pose they are from some friendly Agent, whether su-
preme, or inferior, and subordinate, is not the Question;
and that they are given for our Good?
The present Question abundantly confirms me in the
Justice of this Reasoning; for had I not been made cau-
tious by this secret Admonition, come it from whence it
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse
Condition than before, as you will see presently.
I had not kept my self long in this Posture, but I saw
the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they look'd for a Creek
to thrust in at for the Convenience of Landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see
the little Inlet where I formerly landed my Rafts; but run
their Boat on Shore upon the Beach, at about half a Mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise
they would have landed just, as I may say, at my Door, and
would soon have beaten me out of my Castle, and perhaps
have plunder'd me of all I had.
When they were on Shore, I was fully satisfy'd that
they were English Men; at least, most of them; one or
two I thought were Dutch; but it did not prove so: There
were in all eleven Men, whereof three of them I found
were unarm'd, and as I thought, bound; and when the first
four or five of them were jump'd on Shore, they took those
three out of the Boat as Prisoneers: One of the three I
could perceive using the most passionate Gestures of En-
treaty, Affliction and Despair, even to a kind of Extrava-
gance; the other two I could perceive lifted up their
Hands sometimes, and appear'd concern'd indeed, but
not to such a Degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the Sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday call'd out to me
in English, as well as he could, O Master! You see English
Mans eat Prisoner as well as Savage Mans. Why, says I,
Friday, Do you think they are a going to eat them then! Yes,
says Friday, They will eat them: No, no, says I, Friday, /
am afraid they willmurther them indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them.
All this while I had no thought of what the Matter
really was; but stood trembling with the Horror of the
Sight, expecting every Moment when the three Prison-
ers should be kill'd; nay, once I saw one of the Villains
lift up his Arm with a great Cutlash, as the Seamen call it,
or Sword, to strike one of the poor Men; and I expefted
to see him fall every Moment, at which all the Blood in
my Body seem'd to run chill in my Veins.
I wish'd heartily now for my Spaniard, and the Savage
that was gone with him; or that I had any way to have
come undiscover'd within shot of them, that I might have
rescu'd the three Men; for I saw no Fire Arms they had
among them; but it fell out to my Mind another way.
After I had observ'd the outrageous Usage of the three
Men, by the insolent Seamen, I observ'd the Fellows run
scattering about the Land, as if they wanted to see the
Country: I observ'd that the three other Men had Liber-
ty to go also where they pleas'd; but they sat down all
three upon the Ground, very pensive, and look'd like
Men in Despair.
This put me in Mind of the first Time when I came on
Shore, and began to look about me; How I gave my self
over for lost; How wildly I look'd round me: What
dreadful Apprehensions I had: And how I lodg'd in the
Tree all Night for fear of being devour'd by wild Beasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the Supply I was to re-
ceive by the providential Driving of the Ship nearer the
Land, by the Storms and Tide, by which I have since
been so long nourish'd and supported; so these three poor
desolate Men knew nothing how certain of Deliverance
and Supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
effectually and really they were in a Condition of Safety,
at the same Time that they thought themselves losl;, and
their Case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the World, and so much V
reason have we to depend chearfully upon the great Ma-
ker of the World, that he does not leave his Creatures so
absolutely destitute, but that in the worst: Circumstances
they have always something to be thankful for, and some-
times are nearer their Deliverance than they imagine; nay,
are even brought to their Deliverance by the Means by
which they seem to be brought to their Destruction.
It was just at the Top of High-Water when these Peo-
ple came on Shore, and while partly they stood parlying
with the prisoners they brought, and partly while they
rambled about to see what kind of a Place they were in;
they had carelessly staid till the Tide was spent, and the
Water was ebb'd considerably away, leaving their Boat
a-ground.
They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much Brandy, fell a-
sleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other,
and finding the Boat too fast a-ground for him to stir
it, hollow'd for the rest who were straggling about, upon
which they all soon came to the Boat; but it was past all
their Strength to launch her, the Boat being very heavy,
and the Shore on that Side being a soft ousy Sand, almost
like a Quick-Sand.
In this Condition, like true Seamen who are perhaps
the least of all Mankind given to fore-thought, they gave
it over, and away they stroll'd abut the Country again;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling
them off from the Boat, Why let her alone^ Jack, can't ye,
she willfloat next "Tide; by which I was fully confirm'd in
the main Enquiry, of what Countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my Castle, any farther than to my Place of
Observation, near the Top of the Hill; and very glad I
was, to think how well it was fortify'd: I knew it was no
less than ten Hours before the Boat could be on float
again, and by that Time it would be dark, and I might be
at more Liberty to see their Motions, and to hear their
Discourse, if they had any.
In the mean Time, I fitted my self up for a Battle, as
before; though with more Caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of Enemy than I had at first: I order'd
Friday also, who I had made an excellent Marks-Man
with his Gun, to load himself with Arms: I took my self
two Fowling-Pieces, and I gave him three Muskets; my
Figure indeed was very fierce; I had my formidable Goat-
Skin Coat on, with the great Cap I have mention'd, a
naked Sword by my Side, two Pistols in my Belt, and a
Gun upon each Shoulder.
It was my Design, as I said above, not to have made
any Attempt till it was Dark: But about Two a Clock, be-
ing the Heat of the Day, I found that in short they were
all gone straggling into the Woods, and as I thought
were laid down to Sleep. The three poor distressed Men,
too Anxious for their Condition to get any Sleep, were
however set down under the Shelter of a great Tree, at
about a quarter of a Mile from me, and as I thought out of
sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolv'd to discover my self to them, and
learn something of their Condition: Immediately I
march'd in the Figure as above, my Man Friday at a good
Distance behind me, as formidable for his Arms as I, but
not making quite so staring a Speftre-like Figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscover'd as I could, and then
before any of them saw me, I call'd aloud to them in
Spanish, What are ye Gentlemen?
They started up at the Noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth Figure
that I made. They made no Answer at all, but I thought I
perceiv'd them just going to fly from me, when I spoke
to them in English: Gentlemen, said I, do not be surpriz'd
at me; perhaps you may have a Friend near you when you
did not expect it. He must be sent directly from Heaven
then, said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his
Hat at the same time to me, for our Condition is past the
Help of Man. All Help is from Heaven, Sir, said I. But
can you put a Stranger in the way how to help you, for you
seem to me to be in some great Distress? I saw you when
you landed, and when you seem'd to make Applications
to the Brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up
his Sword to kill you.
The poor Man with Tears running down his Face, and
trembling, looking like one astonish'd, return'd, Am I
talking to God, or Man! Is it a real Man, or an Angel! Be in
no fear about that, Sir, said I, if God had sent an Angel to
relieve you, he would have come better Cloath'd, and
Arm'd after another manner than you see me in; pray lay
aside your Fears, I am a Man, an English-man, and dis-
pos'd to assist you, you see; I have one Servant only; we
have Arms and Ammunition; tell us freely, Can we serve
you? What is your Case?
Our Case, said he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while our
Murtherers are so near; but in short, Sir, I was Com-
mander of that Ship, my Men have Mutinied against me;
they have been hardly prevail'd on not to Murther me,
and at last have set me on Shore in this desolate Place,
with these two Men with me; one my Mate, the other a
Passenger, where we expected to Perish, believing the
Place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think
of it.
Where are those Brutes, your Enemies, said I, do you
know where they are gone? There they lye, Sir, said he,
pointing to a Thicket of Trees; my Heart trembles, forfear
they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
certainly Murther us all.
Have they any Fire-Arms, said I, He answered they
had only two Pieces, and one which they left in the Boat.
Well then, said I, leave the rest to me; I see they are all
asleep, it is an easie thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them Prisoners? He told me there were two
desperate Villains among them, that it was scarce safe to
shew any Mercy to; but if they were secur'd, he believ'd
all the resl: would return to their Duty. I ask'd him,which
they were? He told me he could not at that distance de-
scribe them; but he would obey my Orders in any thing I
would direct. Well, says I, let us retreat out of their View
or Hearing, least they awake, and we will resolve further;
so they willingly went back with me, till the Woods cov-
er'd us from them.
Look you, Sir, said I, if I venture upon your Deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two Conditions with me;
he anticipated my Proposals, by telling me, that both he
and the Ship, if recover'd, should be wholly Directed and
Commanded by me in every thing; and if the Ship was
not recover'd, he would live and dye with me in what Part
of the World soever I would send him; and the two other
Men said the same.
Well, says I, my Conditions are but two. 1. That while
you stay on this Island with me, you will not pretend to
any Authority here; and if I put Arms into your Hands,
you will upon all Occasions give them up to me, and do
no Prejudice to me or mine, upon this Island, and in the
mean time be govern'd by my Orders.
2. That if the Ship is, or may be recover'd, you will
carry me and my Man to England Passage free.
He gave me all the Assurances that the Invention and
Faith of Man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable Demands, and besides would owe
his Life to me, and acknowledge it upon all Occasions as
long as he liv'd.
Well then, said I, here are three Muskets for you, with
Powder and Ball; tell me next what you think is proper to
be done. He shew'd all the Testimony of his Gratitude
that he was able; but offer'd to be wholly guided by me. I
told him I thought it was hard venturing any thing; but
the best Method I could think of was to fire upon them at
once, as they lay; and if any was not kill'd at the first Vol-
ley, and offer'd to submit, we might save them, and so
put it wholly upon God's Providence to direct the Shot.
He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it, but that those two were incorrigible
Villains, and had been the Authors of all the Mutiny in
the Ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still;
for they would go on Board, and bring the whole Ship's
Company, and destroy us all. Well then, says I, Necessity
legitimates my Advice; for it is the only Way to save our
Lives. However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
Blood, I told him they should go themselves, and manage
as they found convenient.
In the Middle of this Discourse, we heard some of them
awake, and soon after, we saw two of them on their Feet.
I ask'd him, if either of them were of the Men who he had
said were the Heads of the Mutiny? He said, No: Well
then, said I, you may let them escape, and Providence
seems to have wakned them on Purpose to save them-
selves. Now, says I, if the rest escape you, it is your Fault.
Animated with this, he took the Musket, I had given
him, in his Hand, and a Pistol in his Belt, and his two
Comerades with him, with each Man a Piece in hisHand.
The two Men who were with him, going first, made some
Noise, at which one of the Seamen who was awake, turn'd
about, and seeing them coming, cry'd out to the rest; but
it was too late then; for the Moment he cry'd out, they
fir'd; I mean the two Men, the Captain wisely reserving
his own Piece: They had so well aim'd their Shot at the
Men they knew, that one of them was kill'd on the Spot,
and the other very much wounded; but not being dead,
he started up upon his Feet, and call'd eagerly for help to
the other; but the Captain stepping to him, told him,
'twas too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to
forgive his Villany, and with that Word knock'd him
down with the Stock of his Musket, so that he never
spoke more: There were three more in the Company, and
one of them was also slightly wounded: By this Time I
was come, and when they saw their Danger, and that it
was in vain to resist, they begg'd for Mercy: The Cap-
tain told them, he would spare their Lives, if they would
give him any Assurance of their Abhorrence of the Trea-
chery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faith-
ful to him in recovering the Ship, and afterwards in carry-
ing her back to Jamaica, from whence they came: They
gave him all the Protestations of their Sincerity that could
be desir'd, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their Lives, which I was not against, only that I oblig'd
him to keep them bound Hand and Foot while they were
upon the Island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the Captain's
Mate to the Boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the Oars, and Sail, which they did; and by and by,
three straggling Men that were (happily for them) part-
ed from the rest, came back upon hearing the Guns fir'd,
and seeing their Captain, who before was their Prisoner,
vol. 11 e
now their Conqueror, they submitted to be bound also;
and so our Victory was compleat.
It now remain'd, that the Captain and I should enquire
into one another's Circumstances: I began first, and told
him my whole History, which he heard with an Attention
even to Amazement; and particularly, at the wonderful
Manner of my being furnish'd with Provisions and Am-
munition ; and indeed, as my Story is a whole Collection
of Wonders, it affected him deeply; but when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seem'd to have been
preserv'd there, on purpose to save his Life, the Tears ran
down his Face, and he could not speak a Word more.
After this Communication was at an End, I carry'd
him and his two Men into my Apartment, leading them
in, just where I came out, viz. At the Top of the House,
where I refresh'd them with such Provisions as I had, and
shew'd them all the Contrivances I had made, during my
long, long, inhabiting that Place.
All I shew'd them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the Captain admir'd my Fortifi-
cation, and how perfectly I had conceal'd my Retreat
with a Grove of Trees, which having been now planted
near twenty Years, and the Trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little Wood, and so thick,
that it was unpassable in any Part of it, but at that one
Side, where I had reserv'd my little winding Passage into
it: I told him, this was my Castle, and my Residence; but
that I had a Seat in the Country, as most Princes have,
whither I could retreat upon Occasion, and I would shew
him that too another Time; but at present, our Business
was to consider how to recover the Ship: He agreed with
me as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a Loss what
Measures to take; for that there were still six and twenty
Hands on board, who having entred into a cursed Con-
spiracy, by which they had all forfeited their Lives to the
Law, would be harden'd in it now by Desperation; and
would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduc'd, they
should be brought to the Gallows, as soon as they came to
England, or to any of the English Colonies; and that there-
fore there would be no attacking them, with so small a
Number as we were.
I mus'd for some Time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational Conclusion; and that there-
fore something was to be resolv'd on very speedily, as
well to draw the Men on board into some Snare for their
Surprize, as to prevent their Landing upon us, and de-
stroying us; upon this it presently occurr'd to me, that in
a little while the Ship's Crew wondring what was become
of their Comrades, and of the Boat, would certainly come
on Shore in their other Boat, to see for them, and that
then perhaps they might come arm'd, and be too strong
for us; this he allow'd was rational.
Upon this, I told him the first Thing we had to do, was
to stave the Boat, which lay upon the Beach, so that they
might not carry her off; and taking every Thing out of
her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim; ac-
cordingly we went on board, took the Arms which were
left on board, out of her, and whatever else we found
there, which was a Bottle of Brandy, and another of Rum,
a few Bisket Cakes, a Horn of Powder, and a great Lump
of Sugar, in a Piece of Canvas; the Sugar was five or six
Pounds, all which was very welcome to me, especially the
Brandy, and Sugar, of which I had had none left for many
Years.
When we had carry'd all these Things on Shore (the
Oars, Mast, Sail, and Rudder of the Boat, were carry'd
away before, as above) we knock'd a great Hole in her
Bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry off the Boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my Thoughts, that we
could be able to recover the Ship; but my View was that
if they went away without the Boat, I did not much ques-
tion to make her fit again, to carry us away to the Leeward
Islands, and call upon our Friends, the Spaniards, in my
Way, for I had them still in my Thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our Designs, and had
first, by main Strengthheav'dtheBoatupupontheBeach,
so high that the Tide would not fleet her off at High-Wa-
ter-Mark; and besides, had broke a Hole in her Bottom,
too big to be quickly stopp'd, and were sat down musing
what we should do; we heard the Ship fire a Gun, and saw
her make a Waft with her Antient, as a Signal for the
Boat to come on board; but no Boat stirr'd; and they fir'd
several Times, making other Signals for the Boat.
At last, when all their Signals and Firing prov'd fruit-
less, and they found the Boat did not stir, we saw them by
the Help of my Glasses, hoist another Boat out, and row
towards the Shore; and we found as they approach'd that
there was no less than ten Men in her, and that they had
Fire-Arms with them.
As the Ship lay almost two Leagues from the Shore,
we had a full View of them as they came, and a plain Sight
of the Men even of their Faces, because the Tide having
set them a little to the Easl of the other Boat, they row'd
up under Shore, to come to the same Place, where the
other had landed, and where the Boat lay.
By this Means, I say, we had a full View of them, and
the Captain knew the Persons and Characters of all the
Men in the Boat, of whom he said, that there were three
very honest Fellows, who he was sure were led into this
Conspiracy by the rest, being over-power'd and frighted.
But that as for the Boatswain, who it seems was the
chief Officer among them, and all the rest, they were as
outragious as any of the Ship's Crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new Enterprize, and terribly ap-
prehensive he was, that they would be too powerful for us.
I smil'd at him, and told him, that Men in our Circum-
stances were past the Operation of Fear: That seeing al-
most every Condition that could be, was better than that
which we were suppos'd to be in, we ought to expect that
the Consequence, whether Death or Life, would be sure
to be a Deliverance: I ask'd him, What he thought of the
Circumstances of my Life? And, Whether a Deliverance
were not worth venturing for? And where, Sir, said I, is .
your Belief of my being preserv'd here on purpose to save
your Life, which elevated you a little while ago? For my
Part, said I, there seems to be but one Thing amiss in all
the Prospect of it; What's that? Says he; why, said I, 'Tis,
that as you say, there are three or four honest Fellows
among them, which should be spar'd; had they been all
of the wicked Part of the Crew, I should have thought
God's Providence had singled them out to deliver them
into your Hands; for depend upon it, every Man of them
that comes a-shore are our own, and shall die, or live, as
they behave to us.
As I spoke this with a rais'd Voice and chearful Coun-
tenance, I found it greatly encourag'd him; so we set
vigorously to our Business: We had upon the first Appear-
ance of the Boat's coming from the Ship, consider'd of
separating our Prisoners, and had indeed secur'd them
effectually.
Two of them, of whom the Captain was less assur'd
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
(deliver'd Men) to my Cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of Danger of being heard or discover'd,
or of finding their way out of the Woods, if they could
have deliver'd themselves: Here they left them bound,
but gave them Provisions, and promis'd them if they con-
tinu'd there quietly, to give them their Liberty in a Day
or two; but that if they attempted their Escape, they
should be put to Death without Mercy: They promis'd
faithfully to bear their Confinement with Patience, and
were very thankful that they had such good Usage, as to
have Provisions, and a Light left them; for Friday gave
them Candles (such as we made our selves) for their Com-
fort; and they did not know but that he slood Sentinel
over them at the Entrance.
The other Prisoners had better Usage; two of them
were kept pinion'd indeed, because the Captain was not
free to trusl: them; but the other two were taken into my
Service upon their Captain's Recommendation, and up-
on their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so
withthemandthe three honest Men, we were seven Men,
well arm'd; and I made no doubt we shou'd be able to
deal well enough with the Ten that were a coming, con-
sidering that the Captain had said, there were three or
four honesl; Men among them also.
As soon as they got to the Place where their other Boat
lay, they run their Boat in to the Beach, and came all on
Shore, haling the Boat up after them, which I was glad to
see; for I was afraid they would rather have left the Boat
at an Anchor, some Distance from the Shore, with some
Hands in her, to guard her; and so we should not be able
to seize the Boat.
Being on Shore, the first Thing they did, they ran all
to their other Boat, and it was easy to see that they were
under a great Surprize, to find her stripp'd as above, of
all that was in her, and a great hole in her Bottom.
After they had mus'd a while upon this, they set up
two or three great Shouts, hollowing with all their might,
to try if they could make their Companions hear; but all
was to no purpose: Then they came all close in a Ring,
and fir'd a Volley of their small Arms, which indeed we
heard, and the Ecchos made the Woods ring; but it was
all one, those in the Cave we were sure could not hear, and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
yet durst give no Answer to them.
They were so astonish'd at the Surprize of this, that as
they told us afterwards, they resolv'd to go all on board
again to their Ship, and let them know, that the Men
were all murther'd, and the Long-Boat stav'd; accord-
ingly they immediately launch'd their Boat again, and
gat all of them on board.
The Captain was terribly amaz'd, and even confound-
ed at this, believing they would go on board the Ship
again, and set Sail, giving their Comrades for lost, and so
he should still lose the Ship, which he was in Hopes we
should have recover'd; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off" with the Boat, but we
perceiv'd them all coming on Shore again; but with this
new Measure in their Conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz. To leave three Men in the
Boat, and the rest to go on Shore, and go up into the
Country to look for their Fellows.
This was a great Disappointment to us; for now we
were at a Loss what to do; for our seizing those seven
Men on Shore would be no Advantage to us, if we let the
Boat escape; because they would then row away to the
Ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh
and set Sail, and so our recovering the Ship would be
lost.
However, we had no Remedy, but to wait and see what
the Issue of Things might present; the seven Men came
on Shore, and the three who remain'd in the Boat, put her
off to a good Distance from the Shore, and came to an
Anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the Boat.
Those that came on Shore, kept close together, march-
ing towards the Top of the little Hill, under which my
Habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us: We could have been very glad
they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have
fir'd at them, or that they would have gone farther off,
that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the Brow of the Hill,
where they could see a great way into the Valleys and
Woods, which lay towards the North-EaslPzrt, and where
the Island lay lowest, they shouted, and hollow'd, till they
were weary; and not caring it seems to venture far from
the Shore, nor far from one another, they sat down to-
gether under a Tree, to consider of it: Had they thought
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other Party of them
had done, they had done the Jobb for us; but they were
too full of Apprehensions of Danger, to venture to go to
sleep, though they could not tell what the Danger was
they had to fear neither.
The Captain made a very just Proposal to me, upon
this Consultation of theirs, viz. That perhaps they would
all fire a Volley again, to endeavour to make their Fellows
hear and that we should all Sally upon them, just at the
Junfture when their Pieces were all discharg'd, and they
would certainly yield, and we should have them without
Blood-shed: I lik'd the Proposal, provided it was done
while we were near enough to come up to them, before
they could load their Pieces again.
But this Event did not happen, and we lay ftill a long
Time, very irresolute what Course to take; at length I
told them, there would be nothing to be done in my Opin-
ion till Night, and then if they did not return to the Boat,
perhaps we might find a way to get between them, and
the Shore, and so might use some Stratagem with them
in the Boat, to get them on Shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when after long
Consultations, we saw them sl:art all up, and march down
toward the Sea: It seems they had such dreadful Appre-
hensions upon them, of the Danger of the Place, that they
resolv'd to go on board the Ship again, give their Com-
panions over for loft, and so go on with their intended
Voyage with the Ship.
As soon as I perceiv'd them go towards the Shore, I
imagin'd it to be as it really was, That they had given over
their Search, and were for going back again; and the Cap-
tain, as soon as I told him my Thoughts, was ready to sink
at the Apprehensions of it, but I presently thought of a
Stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answer'd
my End to a Tittle.
I order'd Friday, and the Captain's Mate, to go over
the little Creek Weslward, towards the Place were the
Savages came on Shore, when Friday was rescu'd; and as
soon as they came to a little rising Ground, at about half a
Mile Distance, I bad them hollow, as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the Seamen heard them; that as
soon as ever they heard the Seamen answer them, they
should return it again, and then keeping out of Sight,
take a round, always answering when the other hollow'd,
to draw them as far into the Island, andamongtheWoods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such
ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the Boat, when Friday and
the Mate hollow'd, and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the Shore Weslward, towards the
Voice they heard, where they were presently stopp'd by
the Creek, where the Water being up, they could not get
over, and call'd for the Boat to come up, and set them over,
as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observ'd, that
the Boat being gone up a good way into the Creek, and as
it were, in a Harbour within the Land, they took one of
the three Men out of her to go along with them, and left
only two in the Boat, having fastned her to the Stump of a
little Tree on the Shore.
This was what I wish'd for, and immediately leaving
Friday and the Captain's Mate to their Business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the Creek out of their Sight,
we surpriz'd the two Men before they were aware; one of
them lying on Shore, and the other being in the Boat; the
Fellow on Shore, was between sleeping and waking, and
going to start up, the Captain who was foremost, ran in
upon him, and knock'd him down, and then call'd out to
him in the Boat, to yield, or he was a dead Man.
There needed very few Arguments to perswade a sin-
gle Man to yield, when he saw five Men upon him, and
his Comrade knock'd down; besides, this was it seems
one of the three who were not so hearty in the Mutiny as
the rest of the Crew, and therefore was easily perswaded,
not only to yield, but afterwards to joyn very sincerely
with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the Captain's Mate so
well manag'd their Business with the rest, that they drew
them by hollowing and answering, from one Hill to an-
other, and from one Wood to another, till they not only
heartily tyr'd them, but left them, where they were very
sure they could not reach back to the Boat, before it was
dark; and indeed they were heartily tyr'd themselves also
by the Time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do, but to watch for them, in
the Dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work
with them.
It was several Hours after Friday came back to me, be-
fore they came back to their Boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along, and could also hear them
answer and complain, how lame and tyr'd they were, and
not able to come any faster, which was very welcome
News to us.
At length they came up to the Boat; but 'tis impossible
to express their Confusion, when they found the Boat
fast a-Ground in the Creek, the Tide ebb'd out, and their
two Men gone: We could hear them call to one another
in a most lamentable Manner, telling one another, they
were gotten into an inchanted Island; that either there
were Inhabitants in it, and they should all be murther'd,
or else there were Devils and Spirits in it, and they should
be all carry'd away, and devour'd.
They hallow'd again, and call'd their two Comerades
by their Names, a great many times, but no Answer. Af-
ter some time, we could see them, by the little Light there
was, run about wringing their Hands like Men in De-
pair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down in
the Boat to rest themselves, then come ashore again, and
walk about again, and so over the same thing again.
My Men would fain have me give them Leave to fall
upon them at once in the Dark; but I was willing to take
them at some Advantage, so to spare them, and kill as
few of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to
hazard the killing any of our own Men, knowing the
other werevery well armed. I resolved to wait to see if they
did not separate; and therefore to make sure of them, I
drew my Ambuscade nearer, and order'd Friday and the
Captain, to creep upon their Hands and Feet as close to
the Ground as they could, that they might not be dis-
cover'd, and get as near them as they could possibly, be-
fore they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that Posture, but that the
Boatswain, who was the principal Ringleader of the Mu-
tiny, and had now shewn himself the most dejected and
dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them with
two more of their Crew; the Captain was so eager, as hav-
ing this principal Rogue so much in his Power, that he
could hardly have Patience to let him come so near, as to
be sure of him; for they only heard his Tongue before:
But when they came nearer, the Captain and Friday start-
ing up on their Feet, let fly at them.
The Boatswain was kill'dupon the Spot, the next Man
was shot into the Body, and fell just by him, tho* he did
not die 'till an Hour or two after; and the third run for it.
At the Noise of the Fire, I immediately advanc'd with
my whole Army, which was now 8 men, viz. my self
Generalissimo, Friday my Lieutenant-General, the Cap-
tain and his two Men, and the three Prisoners of War,
who we had trusted with Arms.
We came upon them indeed in the Dark, so that they
could not see our Number; and I made the Man we had
left in the Boat, who was now one of us, call to them by
Name, to try if I could bring them to a Parley, and so
might perhaps reduce them to Terms, which fell out just
as we desir'd: for indeed it was easy to think, as their Con-
dition then was, they would be very willing to capitulate;
so he calls out as loud as he could, to one of them, Tom
Smith, Tom Smith; Tom Smith answered immediately,
Who's that, Robinson? for it seems he knew his Voice:
T'other answered, Ay, ay; for God's Sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your Arms, and yield, or, you are all dead Men
this Moment.
Who musl we yield to? where are they? (says Smith
again;) Here they are, says he, here's our Captain, and
fifty Men with him, have been hunting you this two
Hours; the Boatswain is kill'd, Will Frye is wounded,
and I am a Prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all
loft.
Will they give us Quarter then, (says Tom Smith) and
we will yield? I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield, says
Robinson; so he ask'd the Captain, and the Captain then
calls himself out, You Smith, you know my Voice, if you
lay down your Arms immediately, and submit, you shall
have your Lives all but Will. Atkins.
Upon this, Will Atkins cry'd out, For God's sake, Cap-
tain,give me Quarter, what have I done? They have been all
as bad as I; which by the Way was not true neither; for it
seems this Will. Atkins was the first Man that laid hold of
the Captain, when they first mutiny'd, and used him bar-
barously, in tying his Hands, and giving him injurious
Language. However, the Captain told him he must lay
down his Arms at Discretion, and trust to the Governour's
Mercy, by which he meant me; for they all call'd me
Governour.
In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and begg'd
their Lives; and I sent the Man that had parley'd with
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great Army of 50 Men, which particularly with those
three, were all but eight, came up and seiz'd upon them
all, and upon their Boat, only that I kept my self and one
more out of Sight, for Reasons of State.
Our next Work was to repair the Boat, and think of
seizing the Ship; and as for the Captain, now he had Lei-
sure to parley with them: He expostulated with them up-
on the Villany of their Practices with him, and at length
upon the farther Wickedness of their Design, and how
certainly it must bring them to Misery and Distress in
the End, and perhaps to the Gallows.
They all appear'd very penitent, and begg'd hard for
their Lives; as for that, he told them, they were none of
his Prisoners, but the Commander's of the Island; that
they thought they had set him on Shore in a barren unin-
habitated Island, but it had pleased God so to direct them,
that the Island was inhabited, and that the Governour
was an English Man; that he might hang them all there,
if he pleased; but as he had given them all Quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England to be dealt with
there, as Justice requir'd, except Atkins, who he was com-
manded by the Governour to advise to prepare for Death;
for that he would be hang'd in the Morning.
Though this was all a Fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired Effect; Atkins fell upon his Knees to beg the Cap-
tain to interceed with the Governour for his Life; and all
the rest beg'd of him for God's sake, that they might not
be sent to England.
It now occurr'd to me, that the time of our Deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these Fellows in, to be hearty in getting Possession of the
Ship; so I retir'd in the Dark from them, that they might
not see what Kind of a Governour they had, and call'd the
Captain to me; when I call'd, as at a good Distance, one
of the Men was order'd to speak again, and say to the
Captain, Captain, the Commander calls for you; and pre-
sently the Captain reply'd, Tell his Excellency, I am jusl a
coming: This more perfectly amused them; and they all
believed that the Commander was just by with his fifty
Men.
Upon the Captain's coming to me, I told him my Pro-
ject for seizing the Ship, which he lik'd of wonderfully
well, and resolv'd to put it in Execution the next Morn-
ing.
But in Order to execute it with more Art, and secure
of Success, I told him, we must divide the Prisoners, and
that he should go and take Atkins and two more of the
worst of them, and send them pinion'd to the Cave where
the others lay: This was committed to Friday and the two
Men who came on Shore with the Captain.
They convey'd them to the Cave, as to a Prison; and it
was indeed a dismal Place, especially to Men in their
Condition.
The other I order'd to my Bower, as I call'd it, of which
1 have given a full Description; and as it was fenc'd in,
and they pinion'd, the Place was secure enough, consider-
ing they were upon their Behaviour.
To these in the Morning I sent the Captain, who was
to enter into a Parley with them, in a Word, to try them,
and tell me, whether he thought they might be trusted or
no, to go on Board and surprize the Ship. He talk'd to
them of the Injury done him; of the Condition they were
brought to; and that though the Governour had given
them Quarter for their Lives, as to the present Action,
yet that if they were sent to England, they would all be
hang'd in Chains, to be sure; but that if they would join
in so just an Attempt, as to recover the Ship, he would
have the Governour's engagement for their Pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a Proposal would
be accepted by Men in their Condition; they fell down on
their Knees to the Captain, and promised with the deep-
eft Imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the
last Drop, and that they should owe their Lives to him,
and would go with him all over the World, that they
would own him for a Father to them as long as they liv'd.
Well, says the Captain, I must go and tell the Govern-
our what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to
consent to it: So he brought me an Account of the Tem-
per he found them in; and that he verily believ'd they
would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again, and choose out those five and
tell them, they might see that he did not want Men, that
he would take out those five to be his Assistants, and
that the Governour would keep the other two, and the
three that were sent Prisoners to the Castle, (my Cave) as
Hostages, for the Fidelity of those five; and that if they
prov'd unfaithful in the Execution, the five Hostages
should be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore.
This look'd severe, and convinc'd them that the Go-
vernour was in Earnest; however they had no Way left
them, but to accept it; and it was now the Business of the
Prisoners, as much as of the Captain, to perswade the
other five to do their Duty.
Our Strength was now thus ordered for the Expedi-
tion: 1. The Captain, his Mate, and Passenger. 1. Then
the two Prisoners of the first Gang, to whom having their
Characters from the Captain, I had given their Liberty,
and trusted them with Arms. 3. The other two who I had
kept till now, in my Bower, pinion'd; but upon the
Captain's Motion, had now releas'd. 4. These five re-
leas'd at last: So that they were twelve in all, besides five
we kept Prisoners in the Cave, for Hostages.
I ask'd the Captain, if he was willing to venture with
these Hands on Board the Ship; for as for me and my
Man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven Men left behind; and it was Employment
enough for us to keep them assunder, and supply them
with Victuals.
As to the five in the Cave, I resolv'd to keep them fast,
but Friday went in twice a Day to them, to supply them
with Necessaries; and I made the other two carry Provi-
sions to a certain Distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I shew'd my self to the two Hostages, it was
with the Captain, who told them, I was the Person the
Governour had order'd to look after them, and that it was
the Governour's Pleasure they should not stir any where,
but by my Direction; that if they did, they should be
fetch'd into the Castle, and be lay'd in Irons; so that as we
never suffered them to see me as Governour, so I now ap-
pear'd as another Person, and spoke of the Governour,
the Garrison, the Castle, and the like, upon all Occasions.
The Captain now had no Difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two Boats, stop the Breach of one, and Man
them. He made his Passenger Captain of one, with four
other Men; and himself, and his Mate, and five more,
went in the other: And they contriv'd their Business very
vol. 11 f
well; for they came up to the Ship about Midnight: As
soon as they came within Call of the Ship, he made Robin-
son hale them, and tell them they had brought off the Men
and the Boat, but that it was a long time before they had
found them, and the like; holding them in a Chat 'till
they came to the Ship's Side; when the Captain and the
Mate entring first with their Arms, immediately knock'd
down the second Mate and Carpenter, with the But-end
of their Muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their
Men; they secur'd all the rest that were upon the Main
and Quarter Decks, and began to fasten the Hatches to
keep them down who were below, when the other Boat
and their Men entring at the fore Chains, secur'd the
Fore-Castle of the Ship, and the Scuttle which went down
into the Cook-Room, making three Men they found
there, Prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon Deck, the Cap-
tain order'd the Mate with three Men to break into the
Round-House where the new Rebel Captain lay, and
having taken the Alarm, was gotten up, and with two
Men and a Boy had gotten Fire Arms in their Hands;
and when the Mate with a Crow split open the Door, the
new Captain and his Men fir'd boldly among them, and
wounded the Mate with a Musket Ball, which broke his
Arm, and wounded two more of the Men but kill'd no
Body.
The Mate calling for Help, rush'd however into the
Round-House, wounded as he was, and with his Pistol
shot the new Captain thro' the Head, the Bullet entring
at his Mouth, and came out again behind one of his Ears;
so that he never spoke a Word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the Ship was taken effectually, without any
more Lives lost.
As soon as the Ship was thus secur'd, the Captain or-
der'd seven Guns to be fir'd, which was the Signal agreed
upon with me, to give me Notice of his Success, which
you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watch-
ing upon the Shore for it till near two of the Clock in the
Morning.
Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a Day of great Fatigue to me, I slept
very sound, 'till I was something surpriz'd with the Noise
of a Gun; and presently starting up, I heard a Man call
me by the Name of Governour, Governour, and present-
ly I knew the Captain's Voice, when climbing up to the
Top of the Hill, there he stood, and pointing to the Ship,
he embrac'd me in his Arms, My dear Friend and Deliver-
er, says he, there's your Ship, for she is all yours, and so are
we and all that belong to her. I cast my Eyes to the Ship,
and there she rode within little more than half a Mile of
the Shore; for they had weighed her Anchor as soon as
they were Masters of her; and the Weather being fair,
had brought her to an Anchor just against the Mouth of
the little Creek; and the Tide being up, the Captain had
brought the Pinnace in near the Place where I at first
landed my Rafts, and so landed just at my Door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the Surprize.
For I saw my Deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large Ship just ready to carry
me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one Word; but as he had taken
me in his Arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen
to the Ground.
He perceived the Surprize, and immediately pulls a
Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave me a Dram of Cordial,
which he had brought on Purpose for me; after I had
drank it, I sat down upon the Ground; and though it
brought me to my self, yet it was a good while before I
could speak a Word to him.
All this while the poor Man was in as great an Extasy
as I, only not under any Surprize, as I was; and he said a
thousand kind tender things to me, to compose me and
bring me to my self; but such was the Flood of Joy in my
Breast, that it put all my Spirits into Confusion; at last it
broke out into Tears, and in a little while after, I recover-
ed my Speech.
Then 1 took my Turn, and embrac'd him as my Deliv-
erer; and we rejoyc'd together. I told him, I look'd upon
him as a Man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that
the whole Transaction seemed to be a Chain of Wonders;
that such things as these were the Testimonies we had of
a secret Hand of Providence governing the World, and
an Evidence, that the Eyes of an infinite Power could
search into the remotest Corner of the World, and send
Help to the Miserable whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankfulness to
Heaven; and what Heart could forbear to bless him, who
had not only in a miraculous Manner provided for one
in such a Wilderness, and in such a desolate Condition,
but from whom every Deliverance must always be ac-
knowledged to proceed.
When we had talk'd a while, the Captain told me, he
had brought me some little Refreshment, such as the
Ship afforded, and such as the Wretches that had been so
long his Master had not plunder'd him of: Upon this he
call'd aloud to the Boat, and bid his Men bring the things
ashore that were for the Governour; and indeed it was a
Present, as if I had been one not that was to be carry'd
away along with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the Island still, and they were to go without me.
First he had brought me a Case of Bottles full of excel-
lent Cordial Waters, six large Bottles of Madera Wine;
the Bottles held two Quarts a-piece; two Pound of excel-
lent good Tobacco, twelve good Pieces of the Ship's Beef,
and six Pieces of Pork, with a Bag of Pease, and about a
hundred Weight of Bisket.
He brought me also a Box of Sugar, a Box of Flower, a
Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of Lime-juice, and
Abundance of other things: But besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me
six clean new Shirts, six very good Neckcloaths, two Pair
of Gloves, one Pair of Shoes, a Hat, and one Pair of Stock-
ings, and a very good Suit of Cloaths of his own, which
had been worn but very little: In a Word, he cloathed me
from Head to Foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable Present, as any one
may imagine to one in my Circumstances: But never was
any thing in the World of that Kind so unpleasant, awk-
ard, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such Cloaths at
their first putting on.
After these Ceremonies past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little Apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the Prisoners we had;
for it was worth considering, whether we might venture
to take them away with us or no, especially two of them,
who we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last
Degree; and the Captain said, he knew they were such
Rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he did
carry them away, it must be in Irons, as Malefactors to be
delivered over to Justice at the first English Colony he
could come at; and I found that the Captain himself was
very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desir'd it, I durst un-
dertake to bring the two Men he spoke of, to make it their
own Request that he should leave them upon the Island:
/ should be very glad of that, says the Captain, with all my
Heart.
Well, says I, I will send for them up, and talk with
them for you; so I caused Friday and the two Hostages,
for they were nowdischarg'd, their Comrades having per-
form'd their Promise; I say, I caused them to go to the
Cave, and bring up the five Men pinion'd, as they were,
to the Bower, and keep them there 'till I came.
After some time, I came thither dress'd in my new Ha-
bit, and now I was call'd Governour again; being all met,
and the Captain with me, I caused the Men to be brought
before me, and I told them, I had had a full Account of
their villanous Behaviour to the Captain, and how they
had run away with the Ship, and were preparing to com-
mit farther Robberies, but that Providence had ensnar'd
them in their own Ways, and that they were fallen into
the Pit which they had digged for others.
I let them know, that by my Direction the Ship had
been seiz'd, that she lay now in the Road; and they might
see by and by, that their new Captain had receiv'd the
Reward of his Villany; for that they might see him hang-
ing at the Yard-Arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I should not execute them as Pirates taken in
the Fact, as by my Commission they could not doubt I
had Authority to do.
One of them answer'd in the Name of the rest, That
they had nothing to say but this, That when they were
taken, the Captain promis'd them their Lives, and they
humbly implor'd my Mercy; But I told them, I knew not
what Mercy to shew them; for as for my self, I had resolv'd
to quit the Island with all my Men, and had taken Passage
with the Captain to go for England: And as for the Cap-
tain, he could not carry them to England, other than as
Prisoners in Irons to be try'd for Mutiny, and running
away with the Ship; the Consequence of which, they musl:
needs know, would be the Gallows; so that I could not
tell which was best for them, unless they had a Mind to
take their Fate in the Island; if they desir'd that, I did not
care, as I had Liberty to leave it, I had some Inclination
to give them their Lives, if they thought they could shift
on Shore.
They seem'd very thankful for it, said they would much
rather venture to slay there, than to be carry'd to England
to be hang'd; so I left it on that Issue.
However, the Captain seem'd to make some Difficulty
of it, as if he dursl: not leave them there: Upon this I
seem'd a little angry with the Captain, and told him, That
they were my Prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had of-
fered them so much Favour, I would be as good as my
Word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I
would set them at Liberty, as I found them; and if he did
not like it, he might take them again if he could catch
them.
Upon this they appear'd very thankful, and I accord-
ingly set them at Liberty, and bad them retire into the
Woods to the Place whence they came, and I would leave
them some Fire Arms, some Ammunition, and some Di-
rections how they should live very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this I prepar'd to go on Board the Ship, but told
the Captain, that I would stay that Night to prepare my
things, and desir'd him to go on Board in the mean time,
and keep all right in the Ship, and send the Boat on Shore
the next Day for me; ordering him in the mean time to
cause the new Captain who was kill'd, to be hang'd at the
Yard-Arm that these Men might see him.
When the Captain was gone, I sent for the Men up to
me to my Apartment, and entred seriously into Discourse
with them of their Circumstances; I told them, I thought
they had made a right Choice; that if the Captain carry'd
them away, they would certainly be hang'd. I shewed
them the new Captain, hanging at the Yard-Arm of the
Ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declar'd their Willingness to £tay, I
then told them, I would let them into the Story of my liv-
ing there, and put them into the Way of making it easy to
them: Accordingly I gave them the whole History of the
Place, and of my coming to it; shew'd them my Fortifica-
tions, the Way I made my Bread, planted my Corn, cured
my Grapes; and in a Word, all that was necessary to make
them easy: I told them the Story also of the sixteen Spa-
niards that were to be expected; for whom I left a Letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves.
I left them my Fire Arms, viz. Five Muskets, three
Fowling Pieces, and three Swords. I had above a Barrel
and half of Powder left; for after the first Year or two, I
used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a Descrip-
tion of the Way I manag'd the Goats, and Directions to
milk andfatten them, and to make both Butter and Cheese.
In a Word, I gave them every Part of my own Story;
and I told them, I would prevail with the Captain to leave
them two Barrels of Gun-Powder more, and some Gar-
den-Seeds, which I told them I would have been very
glad of; also I gave them the Bag of Pease which the
Captain had brought me to eat, and bad them be sure to
sow and encrease them.
Having done all this, I left them the next Day, and
went on Board the Ship: We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that Night: The next Morning
early, two of the five Men came swimming to the Ship's
Side, and making a most lamentable Complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the Ship, for God's
Sake, for they should be murthered, and begg'd the Cap-
tain to take them on Board, tho' he hang'd them imme-
diately.
Upon this the Captain pretended to have no Power
without me; But after some Difficulty, and after their so-
lemn Promisesof Amendment, they were taken on Board,
and were some time after soundly whipp'd and pickl'd;
after which, they prov'd very honest and quiet Fellows.
Some time after this, the Boat was order'd on Shore,
the Tide being up, with the things promised to the Men,
to which the Captain at my Intercession caused their
Chests and Cloaths to be added, which they took, and
were very thankful for; I also encourag'd them, by telling
them, that if it lay in my Way to send any Vessel to take
them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this Island, I carry'd on board
for Reliques, the great Goat's-Skin-Cap I had made, my
Umbrella, and my Parrot; also I forgot not to take the
Money I formerly mention'd, which had lain by me so
long useless, that it was grown rusty, or tarnish'd, and
could hardly pass for Silver, till it had been a little rubb'd,
and handled; as also the Money I found in the Wreck of
the Spanish Ship.
And thus I left the Island, the Nineteenth of December
as I found by the Ship's Account, in the Year 1686, after
I had been upon it eight and twenty Years, two Months,
and 19 Days; being deliver'd from this second Captivity,
the same Day of the Month, that I first made my Escape
in the Barco-Longo, from among the Moors of Sallee.
In this Vessel, after a long Voyage, I arriv'd in Eng-
land, the Eleventh of June, in the Year 1687, having been
thirty and five Years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a Stranger
to all the World, as if I had never been known there. My
Benefactor and faithful Steward, who I had left in Trust
with my Money, was alive; but had had great Misfor-
tunes in the World; was become a Widow the second
Time, and very low in the World: I made her easy as to
what she ow'd me, assuring her, I would give her no
Trouble; but on the contrary, in Gratitude to her former
Care and Faithfulness to me, I reliev'd her as my little
Stock would afford, which at that Time would indeed al-
low me to do but little for her; but I assur'd her, I would
never forget her former Kindness to me; nor did I forget
her, when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observ'd
in its Place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my Father
was dead, and my Mother, and all the Family extinct, ex-
cept that I found two Sisters, and two of the Children of
one of my Brothers; and as I had been long ago given
over for dead, there had been no Provision made for me;
so that in a Word, I found nothing to relieve, or assist me;
and that little Money I had, would not do much for me,
as to settling in the World.
I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, That the Master of the Ship,
who I had so happily deliver'd, and by the same Means
sav'd the Ship and Cargo, having given a very handsome
Account to the Owners, of the Manner how I had sav'd
the Lives of the Men, and the Ship, they invited me to
meet them, and some other Merchants concern'd, and
altogether made me a very handsome Compliment upon
the Subject, and a Present of almost two hundred Pounds
Sterling.
But after making several Reflections upon the Circum-
stances of my Life, and how little way this would go to-
wards settling me in the World, I resolv'd to go to Lisbon,
and see if I might not come by some Information of the
State of my Plantation in the Brasils, and of what was be-
come of my Partner, who I had reason to suppose had
some Years now given me over for dead.
With this View I took Shipping for Lisbon, where I ar-
riv'd in April following; my Man Friday accompanying
me very honestly in all these Ramblings, and proving a
most faithful Servant upon all Occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out by Enquiry, and
to my particular Satisfaction, my old Friend the Captain
of the Ship, who first took me up at Sea, ofF of the Shore
of A/rick: He was now grown old, and had left off the Sea,
having put his Son, who was far from a young Man, into
his Ship; and who still used the Brasil Trade. The old
Man did not know me, and indeed, I hardly knew him;
but I soon brought him to my Remembrance, and as soon
brought my self to his Remembrance, when I told him
who I was.
After somepassionateExpressionsoftheold Acquaint-
ance, I enquir'd, you may be sure, after my Plantation
and my Partner: The old Man told me he had not been
in the Brasils for about nine Years; but that he could as-
sure me, that when he came away, my Partner was living,
but the Trustees, who I had join'd with him to take Cog-
nizance of my Part, were both dead; that however, he be-
liev'd that I would have a very good Account of the Im-
provement of the Plantation; for that upon the general
Belief of my being cast away, and drown'd, my Trustees
had given in the Account of the Produce of my Part of the
Plantation, to the Procurator Fiscal, who had appropri-
ated it, in Case I never came to claim it; one Third to the
King, and two Thirds to the Monastery of St. Augusline,
to be expended for the Benefit of the Poor, and for the
Conversion of the Indians to the Catholick Faith; but
that if I appear'd,or anyone forme, to claim the Inherit-
ance, it should be restor'd; only that the Improvement,
or Annual Production, being distributed to charitable
Uses, could not be restor'd; but he assur'd me, that the
Steward of the King's Revenue (from Lands) and the
Proviedore, or Steward of the Monastery, had taken great
Care all along, that the Incumbent, that is to say my Part-
ner, gave every Year a faithful Account of the Produce,
of which they receiv'd duly my Moiety.
I ask'd him if he knew to what height of Improvement
he had brought the Plantation ? And, Whether he thought
it might be worth looking after? Or, Whether on my go-
ing thither, I should meet with no Obstruction to my
Possessing my just Right in the Moiety?
He told me, he could not tell exactly, to what Degree
the Plantation was improv'd; but this he knew, that my
Partner was grown exceeding Rich upon the enjoying
but one half of it; and that to the best of his Remem-
brance, he had heard, that the King's Third of my Part,
which was it seems granted away to some other Monas-
tery, or Religious House, amounted to above two hun-
dred Moidores a Year; that as to my being restor'd to a
quiet Possession of it, there was no question to be made
of that, my Partner being alive to witness my Title, and
my Name being also enrolled in the Register of the
Country; also he told me, That the Survivors of my two
Trustees, were very fair honest People, and very Wealthy;
and he believ'd I would not only have their Assistance for
putting me in Possession, but would find a very consider-
able Sum of Money in their Hands, for my Account; be-
ing the Produce of the Farm while their Fathers held the
Trust, and before it was given up as above, which as he re-
member'd, was for about twelve Years.
I shew'd my self a little concern'd, and uneasy at this
Account, and enquir'd of the old Captain, How it came
to pass, that the Trustees should thus dispose my Effects,
when he knew that I had made my Will, and had made
him, the Portuguese Captain, my universal Heir, &c.
He told me, that was true; but that as there was no
Proof of my being dead, he could not act as Executor, un-
til some certain Account should come of my Death, and
that besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a
thing so remote; that it was true he had registred my
Will, and put in his Claim; and could he have given any
Account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted
by Procuration, and taken Possession of the Ingenio, so
they call'd the Sugar-House, and had given his Son, who
was now at the Brasils, Order to do it.
But, says the old Man, I have one Piece of News to
tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you
as the rest, and that is, That believing you were lost, and
all the World believing so also, your Partner and Trustees
did offer to accompt to me in your Name, for six or eight
of the first Years of Profits, which I receiv'd; but there
being at that time, says he, great Disbursements for en-
creasing the Works, building an Ingenio, and buying
Slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards
it produced: However, says the old Man, I shall give
you a true Account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it.
After a few Days farther Conference with this an-
cient Friend, he brought me an Account of the six first
Years Income of my Plantation, sign'd by my Partner
and the Merchants Trustees, being always deliver'd in
Goods, viz. Tobacco in Roll, and Sugar in Chests, besides
Rum, Molossus, &c. which is the Consequence of a Sugar
Work; and I found by this Account, that every Year the
Income considerably encreased; but as above, the Dis-
bursement being large, the Sum at first was small: How-
ever, the old Man let me see, that he was Debtor to me
470 Moidores of Gold, besides 60 Chests of Sugar, and
15 double Rolls of Tobacco which were lost in his Ship;
he having been Ship-wreck'd coming Home to Lisbon
about 11 Years after my leaving the Place.
The good Man then began to complain of his Mis-
fortunes, and how he had been obliged to make Use of
my Money to recover his Losses, and buy him a Share in
a new Ship: However, my old Friend, says he, you shall
not want a Supply in your Necessity; and as soon as my
Son returns, you shall be fully satisfy'd.
Upon this, he pulls out an old Pouch, and gives me
160 Portugal Moidores in Gold; and giving me the Writ-
ing of his Title to the Ship, which his Son was gone to the
Brasils in, of which he was a Quarter Part Owner, and his
Son another, he puts them both into my Hands for Secu-
rity of the rest.
I was too much mov'd with the Honesty and Kindness
of the poor Man, to be able to bear this; and remembring
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at Sea,
and how generously he had used me on all Occasions, and
particularly, how sincere a Friend he was now to me, I
could hardly refrain Weeping at what he said to me:
Therefore, first I asked him, if his Circumstances ad-
mitted him to spare so much Money at that time, and if it
would not straiten him? He told me, he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but however it was my Mo-
ney, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good Man said was full of Affection,
and I could hardly refrain from Tears while he spoke: In
short, I took 100 of the Moidores, and call'd for a Pen
and Ink to give him a Receipt for them; then I returned
him the rest, and told him, If ever I had Possession of the
Plantation, I would return the other to him also, as in-
deed I afterwards did; and that as to the Bill of Sale of his
Part in his Son's Ship, I would not take it by any Means;
but that if I wanted the Money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive
what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a
Penny more from him.
When this was pass'd, the old Man began to ask me,If
he should put me into a Method to make my Claim to my
Plantation? I told him, I thought to go over to it my self:
He said, I might do so if I pleas'd; but that if I did not,
there were Ways enough to secure my Right, and imme-
diately to appropriate the Profits to my Use; and as there
were Ships in the River of Lisbon, just ready to go away
to Brasil, he made me enter my Name in a Publick Regis-
ter, with his Affidavit, affirming upon Oath that I was
alive, and that I was the same Person who took up the
Land for the Planting the said Plantation at first.
This being regularly attested by a Notary, and a Pro-
curation affix'd, he directed me to send it with a Letter of
his Writing, to a Merchant of his Acquaintance at the
Place, and then propos'd my slaying with him till an Ac-
count came of the Return.
Never any Thing was more honourable, than the Pro-
ceedings upon this Procuration; for in less than seven
Months, I receiv'd a large Packet from the Survivors of
my Trustees the Merchants, for whose Account I went
to Sea, in which were the following particular Letters and
Papers enclos'd.
Firsl, There was the Account Current of the Produce
of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Year when their Fa-
thers had ballanc'd with my old Portugal Captain, being
for six Years; the Ballance appear'd to be 1174 Moidores
in my Favour.
Secondly, There was the Account of four Years more
while they kept the Effects in their Hands, before the
Government claim'd the Administration, as being the
Effects of a Person not to be found, which they call'd
Civil Death; and the Ballance of this, the Value of the
Plantation encreasing, amounted to Cruisadoes,
which made 3241 Moidores.
Thirdly, There was the Prior of the Auguslin's Ac-
count, who had receiv'd the Profits for above fourteen
Years; but not being to account for what was dispos'd to
the Hospital, very honestly declar'd he had 872 Moi-
dores not distributed, which he acknowledged to my Ac-
count ; as to the King's Part, that refunded nothing.
There was a Letter of my Partner's, congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an
Account how the Estate was improv'd, and what it pro-
duced a Year, with a Particular of the Number of Squares
or Acres that it contained; how planted, how many Slaves
there were upon it; and making two and twenty Crosses
for Blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to
thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me
very passionately to come over and take Possession of my
own; and in the mean time to give him Orders to whom
he should deliver my Effects, if I did not come my self;
concluding with a hearty Tender of his Friendship, and
that of his Family, and sent me, as a Present, seven fine
Leopard's Skins, which he had it seems received from
Africa, by some other Ship which he had sent thither, and
who it seems had made a better Voyage than I: He sent me
also five Chests of excellent Sweet-meats, and an hundred
Pieces of Gold uncoin'd, not quite so large as Moidores.
By the same Fleet, my two Merchant Trustees ship-
p'd me 1200 Chests of Sugar, 800 Rolls of Tobacco, and
the rest of the whole Accompt in Gold.
I might well say, now indeed, That the latter End of
Job was better than the Beginning. It is impossible to ex-
press here the Flutterings of my very Heart, when I
look'd over these Letters, and especially when I found all
my Wealth about me; for as the Brasil Ships come all in
Fleets, the same Ships which brought my Letters, brought
my Goods; and the Effe&s were safe in the River before
the Letters came to my Hand. In a Word, I turned pale,
and grew sick; and had not the old Man run and fetch'd
me a Cordial, I believe the sudden Surprize of Joy had
overset Nature, and I had dy'd upon the Spot.
Nay after that, I continu'd very ill, and was so some
Hours, 'till a Physician being sent for, and something of
the real Cause of my Illness being known, he order'd me
to be let Blood; after which, I had Relief, and grew well:
But I verily believe, if it had not been eas'd by a Vent
given in that Manner, to the Spirits, I should have dy'd.
vol. 11 g
I was now Master, all on a Sudden, of above 5000 /.
Sterling in Money, and had an Estate, as I might well call
it, in the Brasils, of above a thousand Pounds a Year, as
sure as an Estate of Lands in England: And in a Word, I
was in a Condition which I scarce knew how to under-
stand, or how to compose my self, for the Enjoyment
of it.
The first thing I did, was to recompense my original
Benefactor, my good old Captain, who had been first cha-
ritable to me in my Distress, kind to me in my Beginning,
and honest to me at the End: I shew'd him all that was
sent me, I told him, that next to the Providence of Hea-
ven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and
that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a
hundred fold: So I first return'd to him the hundredMoi-
dores I had receiv'd of him, then I sent for a Notary, and
caused him to draw up a general Release or Discharge for
the 470 Moidores, which he had acknowledg'd he ow'd
me in the fullest and firmest Manner possible; after
which, I caused a Procuration to be drawn, impowering
him to be my Receiver of the annual Profits of my Planta-
tion, and appointing my Partner to accompt to him, and
make the Returns by the usual Fleets to him in my Name;
and a Clause in the End, being a Grant of 100 Moidores
a Year to him, during his Life, out of the Effects, and 50
Moidores a Year to his Son after him, for his Life: And
thus I requited my old Man.
I was now to consider which Way to steer my Course
next, and what to do with the Estate that Providence had
thus put into my Hands; and indeed I had more Care up-
on my Head now, than I had in my silent State of Life in
the Island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and
had nothing but what I wanted: Whereas I had now a
great Charge upon me, and my Business was how to se-
cure it. I had ne'er a Cave now to hide my Money in, or a
Place where it might lye without Lock or Key, 'till it
grew mouldy and tarnish'd before any Body would med-
dle with it: On the contrary, I knew not where to put it,
or who to trust with it. My old Patron, the Captain, in-
deed was honest, and that was the only Refuge I had.
In the next Place, my Interest in the Brasils seem'd to
summon me thither; but now I could not tell, how to
think of going thither, 'till I had settled my Affairs, and
left my Effects in some safe Hands behind me. At first I
thought of my old Friend the Widow, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
Years, and but poor, and for ought I knew, might be in
Debt; so that in a Word, I had no Way but to go back to
England my self, and take my Effects with me.
It was some Months however before I resolved upon
this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old Captain
fully, and to his Satisfaction, who had been my former
Benefactor, so I began to think of my poor Widow, whose
Husband had been my first Benefactor, and she, while it
was in her Power, my faithful Steward and Instructor.
So the first thing I did, I got a Merchant in Lisbon to
write to his Correspondent in London, not only to pay a
Bnl, but to go find her out, and carry her in Money, an
hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with her, and com-
fort her in her Poverty, by telling her she should, if I liv'd,
have a further Supply: At the same time I sent my two
Sisters in the Country, each of them an Hundred Pounds,
they being, though not in Want, yet not in very good
Circumstances; one having been marry'd, and left a Wi-
dow; and the other having a Husband not so kind to her
as he should be.
But among all my Relations, or Acquaintances, I could
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst commit the
Gross of my Stock, that I might go away to the Brasils,
and leave things safe behind me; and this greatly per-
plex'd me.
I had once a Mind to have gone to the Brasils, and have
settled my self there; for I was, as it were, naturaliz'd to
the Place; but I had some little Scruple in my Mind about
Religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which I shall
say more presently. However, it was not Religion that
kept me from going there for the present; and as I had
made no Scruple of being openly of the Religion of the
Country, all the while I was among them, so neither did I
yet; only that now and then having of late thought more
of it, (than formerly) when I began to think of living and
dying amongthem, I began to regret my having profess'd
my self a Papist, and thought it might not be the best Re-
ligion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brasils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my Effects behind me; so I
resolv'd at last to go to England with it, where, if I arrived,
I concluded I should make some Acquaintance, or find
some Relations that would be faithful to me; and accord-
ing I prepar'd to go for England with all my Wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going Home, I first,
the Brasil Fleet being just going away, resolved to give
Answers suitable to the just and faithful Account of
things I had from thence; and first to the Prior of St. Au-
gusline I wrote a Letter full of Thanks for their just Deal-
ings, and the Offer of the 872 Moidores, which was in-
disposed of, which I desir'd might be given 500 to the
Monastery, and 372 to the Poor, as the Prior should di-
rect, desiring the good Padres Prayers for me, and the
like.
I wrote next a Letter of Thanks to my two Trustees,
with all the Acknowledgment that so much Justice and
Honesty call'd for; as for sending them any Present, they
were far above having any Occasion of it.
Laslly, I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging his In-
dustry in the Improving the Plantation, and his Integrity
in encreasing the Stock of the Works, giving him In-
structions for his future Government of my Part, accord-
ing to the Powers I had left with my old Patron, to whom
I desir'd him to send whatever became due to me, 'till he
should hear from me more particularly; assuring him that
it was my Intention, not only to come to him, but to settle
my self there for the Remainder of my Life: To this I
added a very handsom Present of some Italian Silks for
his Wife, and two Daughters, for such the Captain's Son
inform'd me he had; with two Pieces of fine English broad
Cloath, the best I could get in Lisbon, five Pieces of black
Bays, and some Flanders Lace of a good Value.
Having thus settled my Affairs, sold my Cargoe, and
turn'd all my Effects into good Bills of Exchange, my
next Difficulty was, which Way to go to England: I had
been accustomed enough to the Sea, and yet I had a
strange Aversion to going to England'by Sea at that time;
and though I could give no Reason for it, yet the Diffi-
culty encreas'd upon me so much, that though I had once
shipp'd my Baggage, in order to go, yet I alter'd my
Mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by Sea, and this
might be some of the Reason: But let no Man slight the
strong Impulses of his own Thoughts in Cases of such
Moment: Two of the Ships which I had singl'd out to go
in, I mean, more particularly singl'd out than any other,
that is to say, so as in one of them to put my things on
Board, and in the other to have agreed with the Captain;
I say, two of these Ships miscarry'd, viz. One was taken
by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Start
near Torbay, and all the People drown'd except three; so
that in either of those Vessels I had been made miserable;
and in which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harass'd in my Thoughts, my old
Pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, press'd me
earnestly not to go by Sea, but either to go by Land to the
Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochell, from
whence it was but an easy and safe Journey by Land to
Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid,
and so all the Way by Land thro' France.
In a Word, I was so prepossess'd against my going by
Sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolv'd to
travel all the Way by Land; which as I was not in Haste,
and did not value the Charge, was by much the pleasanter
Way; and to make it more so, my old Captain brought an
English Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant in Lisbon, who
was willing to travel with me: After which, we pick'd up
two more English Merchants also, and two young Portu-
guese Gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we
were in all six of us, and five Servants; the two Merchants
and the two Portuguese, contenting themselves with one
Servant, between two, to save the Charge; and as for me,
I got an English Sailor to travel with me as a Servant, be-
sides my Man Friday, who was too much a Stranger to
be capable of supplying the Place of a Servant on the
Road.
In this Manner I set out from Lisbon; and our Com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little Troop, whereof they did me the Honour to call me
Captain, as well because I was the oldest Man, as because
I had two Servants, and indeed was the Original of the
whole Journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my Sea-Journals,
so I shall trouble you now with none of my Land-Journal:
But some Adventures that happen'd to us in this tedious
and difficult Journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us Strangers
to Spain, were willing to slay some time to see the Court
of Spain, and to see what was worth observing; but it be-
ing the latter Part of the Summer, we hasten'd away, and
set out from Madrid about the Middle of Ocloberx But
when we came to the Edge of Navarre, we were alarm'd
at several Towns on the Way, with an Account, that so
much Snow was fallen on the French Side of the Moun-
tains, that several Travellers were obliged to come back
to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extream Ha-
zard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna it self, we found it so in-
deed; and to me that had been always used to a hot Cli-
mate, and indeed to Countries where we could scarce
bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was insufferable; nor in-
deed was it more painful than it was surprising, to come
but ten Days before out of the old Castile where the Wea-
ther was not only warm but very hot, and immediately to
feel a Wind from the Pyrenean Mountains, so very keen,
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
numbing and perishing of our Fingers and Toes.
Poor FnWtfjy was really frighted when hesawthe Moun-
tains all cover'd with Snow, and felt cold Weather, which
he had never seen or felt before in his Life.
To mend the Matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it
continued snowing with so much Violence, and so long,
that the People said, Winter was come before its time,
and the Roads which were difficult before, were now
quite impassable: For in a Word, the Snow lay in some
Places too thick for us to travel; and being not hard fro-
zen, as is the Case in Northern Countries: There was no
going without being in Danger of being bury'd alive
every Step. We stay'd no less than twenty Days at Pam-
peluna; when (seeing the Winter coming on, and no
Likelihood of its being better; for it was the severest
Winter all over Europe that had been known in the Me-
mory of Man) I propos'd that we should all go away to
Fonterabia, and there take Shipping for Bourdeaux,which
was a very little Voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four
French Gentlemen, who having been stopp'd on the
French Side of the Passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
found out a Guide, who traversing the Country near the
Head of Languedoc, had brought them over the Moun-
tains by such Ways, that they were not much incom-
moded with the Snow; and where they met with Snow in
any Quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to
bear them and their Horses.
We sent for this Guide, who told us, he would under-
take to carry us the same Way with no Hazard from the
Snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to protect our
selves from wild Beasts; for he said, upon these great
Snows, it was frequent for some Wolves to show them-
selves at the Foot of the Mountains, being made raven-
ous for Want of Food, the Ground being covered with
Snow: We told him, we were well enough prepar'd for
such Creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from a
Kind of two-legged Wolves, which we were told, we were
in mosl: Danger from, especially on the French Side of the
Mountains.
He satisfy'd us there was no Danger of that kind in the
Way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow
him, as did also twelve other Gentlemen, with their Ser-
vants, some French, some Spanish; who, as I said, had at-
tempted to go, and were oblig'd to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
Guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed, I was
surpriz'd, when instead of going forward, he came direct-
ly back with us, on the same Road that we came from Ma-
drid, above twenty Miles; when being pass'd two Rivers,
and come into the plain Country, we found our selves in a
warm Climate again, where the Country was pleasant,
and no Snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turning to his
left, he approach'd the Mountains another Way; and
though it is true, the Hills and Precipices look'd dread-
ful, yet he made so many Tours, such Meanders, and led
us by such winding Ways, that we were insensibly pass'd
the Height of the Mountains, without being much in-
cumber'd with the Snow; and all on a sudden, he shew'd
us the pleasant fruitful Provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
coign, all green and flourishing; tho' indeed it was at a
great Distance, and we had some rough Way to pass
yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found it
snow'd one whole Day, and a Night, so fast, that we could
not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be past it
all: We found indeed, that we began to descend every
Day, and to come more North than before; and so de-
pending upon our Guide, we went on.
It was about two Hours before Night, when our Guide
being something before us, and not just in Sight, out rush-
ed three monstrous Wolves, and after them a Bear, out of
a hollow Way, adjoyning to a thick Wood; two of the
Wolves flew upon the Guide, and had he been half a Mile
before us, he had been devour'd indeed, before we could
have help'd him: One of them fastned upon his Horse,
and the other attack'd the Man with that Violence, that
he had not Time, or not Presence of Mind enough to
draw his Pistol, but hollow'd and cry'd out to us most
lustily; my Man Friday being next me, I bid him ride up,
and see what was the Matter; as soon as Friday came in
Sight of the Man, he hollow'd as loud as t'other, O Ma-
iler! O Masler! But like a bold Fellow, rode direcily up to
the poor Man, and with his Pistol shot the Wolf that at-
tack'd him into the Head.
It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my Man
Friday, for he having been us'd to that kind of Creature
in his Country, had no Fear upon him; but went close up
to him, and shot him as above; whereas any of us, would
have fir'd at a farther Distance, and have perhaps either
miss'd the Wolf, or endanger'd shooting the Man.
But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder Man than
I, and indeed it alarm'd all our Company, when with the
Noise of Friday's Pistol, we heard on both Sides the dis-
mallest Howling of Wolves, and the Noise redoubled by
the Eccho of the Mountains, that it was to us as if there
had been a prodigious Multitude of them; and perhaps
indeed there was not such a Few, as that we had no cause
of Apprehensions.
However, as Friday had kill'd this Wolf, the other that
had fastned upon the Horse, left him immediately, and
fled; having happily fastned upon his Head, where the
Bosses of the Bridle had stuck in his Teeth; so that he had
not done him much Hurt: The Man indeed was most
Hurt; for the raging Creature had bit him twice, once on
the Arm, and the other Time a little above his Knee; and
he was just as it were tumbling down by the Disorder of
his Horse, when Friday came up and shot the Wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the Noise of Friday's
Pistol, we all mended our Pace, and rid up as fast as the
Way (which was very difficult) would give us leave, to see
what was the Matter; as soon as we came clear of the
Trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had
been the Case, and how Friday had disengag'd the poor
Guide; though we did not presently discern what kind of
Creature it was he had kill'd.
But never was a Fight manag'd so hardily, and in such
a surprizing Manner, as that which follow'd between
Friday and the Bear, which gave us all (though at first we
were surpriz'd and afraid for him) the greatest Diversion
imaginable. As the Bear is a heavy, clumsey Creature, and
does not gallop as the Wolf does, who is swift, and light;
so he has two particular Qualities, which generally are the
Rule of his Actions; First, As to Men, who are not his
proper Prey; I say, not his proper Prey; because tho' I
cannot say what excessive Hunger might do, which was
now their Case, the Ground being all cover'd with Snow;
but as to Men, he does not usually attempt them, un-
less they first attack him: On the contrary, if you meet
him in the Woods, if you don't meddle with him, he
won't meddle with you; but then you must take Care to
be very Civil to him, and give him the Road; for he is a
very nice Gentleman, he won't go a Step out of his Way
for a Prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is
to look another Way, and keep going on; for sometimes
if you stop, and stand still, and look steadily at him, he
takes it for an Affront; but if you throw or toss any Thing
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit or a Stick,
as big as your Finger, he takes it for an Affront, and sets
all his other Business aside to pursue his Revenge; for he
will have Satisfaction in Point of Honour; that is his first
Quality: The next is, That if he be once affronted, he will
never leave you, Night or Day, till he has his Revenge;
but follows at a good round rate, till he overtakes you.
My Man Friday had deliver'd our Guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from his
Horse; for the Man was both hurt and frighted, and in-
deed, the last more than the first; when on the sudden,
we spy'd the Bear come out of the Wood, and a vast mon-
strous One it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw: We
were all a little surpriz'd, when we saw him; but when
Friday saw him, it was easy to see Joy and Courage in the
Fellow's Countenance; O! O! O! Says Friday, three
Times, pointing to him; O Master! You give me te Leave!
Me shakee te Hand with him: Me make you good laugh.
I was surpriz'd to see the Fellow so pleas'd; You Fool
you, says I, he will eat you up: Eatee me up! Eatee me up!
Says Friday, twice over again; Me eatee him up: Me make
you good laugh: You all slay here, me show you good laugh; so
down he sits, and gets his Boots off in a Moment, and put
on a Pair of Pumps (as we call the flat Shoes they wear)
and which he had in his Pocket, gives my other Servant
his Horse, and with his Gun away he flew swift like the
Wind.
The Bear was walking softly on, and offer'd to meddle
with no Body, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him,
as if the Bear could understand him; Hark ye, harkye, says
Friday, me speakee wit you: We follow'd at a Distance; for
now being come down on the Gascoign side of the Moun-
tains, we were entred a vast great Forest, where theCoun-
try was plain, and pretty open, though many Trees in it
scatter'd here and there.
Friday, who had as we say, the Heels of the Bear, came
up with him quickly, and takes up a great Stone, and
throws at him, and hit him just on the Head; but did him
no more harm, than if he had thrown it against a Wall;
but it answer'd Friday's End; for the Rogue was so void
of Fear, that he did it purely to make the Bear follow him,
and show us some Laugh as he call'd it.
As soon as the Bear felt the Stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking Devilish long
Strides, and shuffling along at a strange Rate, so as would
have put a Horse to a middling Gallop; away runs Friday,
and takes his Course, as if he run towards us for Help; so
we all resolv'd to fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver
my Man; though I was angry at him heartily, for bring-
ing the Bear back upon us, when he was going about his
own Business another Way; and especially I was angry
that he had turn'd the Bear upon us, and then run away;
and I call'd out, You Dog, said I, is this your making us
laugh? Come away, and take your Horse, that we may shoot
the Creature; he hears me, and crys out, No shoot, no shoot,
Hand Hill, you get much Laugh. And as the nimble Creature
run two Foot for the Beast's one, he turn'd on a sudden,
on one side of us, and seeing a great Oak-Tree, fit for his
Purpose, he beckon'd to us to follow, and doubling his
Pace, he gets nimbly up the Tree, laying his Gun down
upon the Ground, at about five or six Yards from the Bot-
tom of the Tree.
The Bear soon came to the Tree, and we follow'd at a
Distance; the first Thing he did, he stopp'd at the Gun,
smelt to it, but let it lye, and up he scrambles into the
Tree, climbing like a Cat, though so monstrously heavy:
I was amaz'd at the Folly, as I thought it, of my Man, and
could not for my Life see any Thing to Laugh at yet, till
seeing the Bear get up the Tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the Tree, there was Friday got out to
the small End of a large Limb of the Tree, and the Bear
got about half way to him; as soon as the Bear got out to
that part where the Limb of the Tree was weaker, Ha,
says he to us, now you see me teachee the Bear dance; so he
falls a jumping and shaking the Bough, at which the Bear
began to totter, but stood still, and begun to look behind
him, to see how he should get back; then indeed we did
laugh heartily: But Friday had not done with him by a
great deal; when he sees him stand still, he calls out to
him again, as if he had suppos'd the Bear could speak
English; Whatyou no comefarther,prayyou come farther; so
he left jumping and shaking the Bough; and the Bear,
just as if he had understood what he said, did come a little
further, then he fell a jumping again, and the Bear stopp'd
again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on the
Head, and I call'd to Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot the Bear; but he cry'd out earnestly, O pray! O
pray! No shoot, me shoot, by and then; he would have said,
By and by: However, to shorten the Story, Friday danc'd
so much, and the Bear stood so ticklish, that we had laugh-
ing enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the
Fellow would do; for first we thought he depended upon
shaking the Bear off; and we found the Bear was too cun-
ning for that too; for he would not go out far enough to be
thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad Claws
and Feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the
End of it, and where the Jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the
Bear cling fast to the Bough, and that he would not be
perswaded to come any farther; We 11, well, says Friday,
you no come farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me go
come to you; and upon this, he goes out to the smallest End
of the Bough, where it would bend with his Weight, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the Bough,
till he came near enough to jump down on his Feet, and
away he run to his Gun, takes it up, and stands still.
Well, said I to him Friday, What will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him? No shoot, says Friday, no yet,
me shoot now, me no kill; me slay, give you one more laugh;
and indeed so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the Bear see his Enemy gone, he comes back from
the Bough where he stood; but did it mighty leisurely,
looking behind him every Step, and coming backward
till he got into the Body of the Tree; then with the same
hinder End foremost, he came down the Tree, grasping
it with his Claws, and moving one Foot at a Time, very
leisurely; at this Juncture, and just before he could set his
hind Feet upon the Ground, Friday stept up close to him,
clapt the Muzzle of his Piece into his Ear, and shot him
dead as a Stone.
Then the Rogue turn'd about, to see if we did not
laugh, and when he saw we were pleas'd by our Looks, he
falls a laughing himself very loud; so we kill Bear in my
Country, says Friday; so you kill them, says I, Why you
have no Guns: No, says he, no Gun, but shoot, great much
long Arrow.
This was indeed a good Diversion to us; but we were
still in a wild Place, and our Guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the Howling of Wolves run
much in my Head; and indeed, except the Noise I once
heard on the Shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that filled me with
so much Horrour.
These things, and the Approach of Night, called us
off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should cer-
tainly have taken the Skin of this monstrous Creature off,
which was worth saving; but we had three Leagues to go,
and our Guide hasten'd us, so we left him, and went for-
ward on our Journey.
The Ground was still cover'd with Snow, tho' not so
deep and dangerous as on the Mountains, and the raven-
ous Creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down
into the Forest and plain Country, press'd by Hunger to
seek for Food; and had done a great deal of Mischief in
the Villages, where they surpriz'd the Country People,
kill'd a great many of their Sheep and Horses, and some
People too.
We had one dangerous Place to pass, which our Guide
told us, if there were any more Wolves in the Country,
we should find them there; and this was in a small Plain,
surrounded with Woods on every Side, and a long nar-
row Defile or Lane, which we were to pass to get through
the Wood, and then we should come to the Village where
we were to lodge.
It was within half an Hour of Sun-set when we entred
the first Wood; and a little after Sun-set, when we came
into the Plain. We met with nothing in the first Wood,
except, that in a little Plain within the Wood, which was
not above two Furlongs over, we saw five great Wolves
cross the Road, full Speed one after another, as if they had
been in Chase of some Prey, and had it in View, they took
no Notice of us, and were gone, and out of our Sight in a
few Moments.
Upon this our Guide, who by the Way was a wretched
faint-hearted Fellow, bid us keep in a ready Posture; for
he believed there were more Wolves a coming.
We kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us, but
we saw no more Wolves, 'till we came thro' that Wood,
which was near half a League, and entred the Plain; as
soon as we came into the Plain, we had Occasion enough
to look about us: The first Object we met with, was a dead
Horse; that is to say, a poor Horse which the Wolves had
kill'd, and at least a Dozen of them at Work; we could
not say eating of him, but picking of his Bones rather; for
they had eaten up all the Flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their Feast, nei-
ther did they take much Notice of us: Friday would have
let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any Means;
for I found we were like to have more Business upon our
Hands than we were aware of. We were not gone half
over the Plain, but we began to hear the Wolves howl in
the Wood on our Left, in a frightful Manner, and pre-
sently after we saw about a hundred coming on directly
towards us, all in a Body, and most of them in a Line, as
regularly as an Army drawn up by experienc'd Officers.
I scarce knew in what Manner to receive them; but found
to draw ourselves in a close Line was the only Way: so we
form'd in a Moment: But that we might not have too
much Interval, I order'd, that only every other Man
should fire, and that the others who had not fir'd should
stand ready to give them a second Volley immediately, if
they continued to advance upon us, and that then those
who had fir'd at first, should not pretend to load their
Fusees again, but stand ready with every one a Pistol; for
we were all arm'd with a Fusee, and a Pair of Pistols each
Man; so we were by this Method able to fire six Volleys,
half of us at a Time; however, at present we had no Neces-
sity; for upon firing the first Volley, the Enemy made a
full Stop, being terrify'd as well with the Noise, as with
vol. 11 h
the Fire; four of them being shot into the Head, dropp'd;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as
we could see by the Snow: I found they stopp'd, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon remembring that I
had been told, that the fiercest Creatures were terrify'd at
the Voice of a Man, I caus'd all our Company to hollow
as loud as we could; and I found the Notion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our Shout, they began to retire, and
turn about; then I order'd a second Volley to be fir'd, in
their Rear, which put them to the Gallop, and away they
went to the Woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our Pieces again, and
that we might loose no Time, we kept going; but we had
but little more than loaded our Fusees, and put ourselves
into a Readiness, when we heard a terrible Noise in the
same Wood, on our Left, only that it was farther onward
the same Way we were to go.
The Night was coming on, and the Light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on our Side; but the Noise
encreasing, we could easily perceive that it was the Howl-
ing and Yelling of those hellish Creatures; and on a sud-
den, we perceiv'd 2 or 3 Troops of Wolves, one on our
Left, one behind us, and one on our Front; so that we
seem'd to be surrounded with 'em; however, as they did
not fall upon us, we kept our Way forward, as fast as we
could make our Horses go, which the Way being very
rough, was only a good large Trot; and in this Manner
we came in View of the Entrance of a Wood, through
which we were to pass, at the farther side of the Plain;
but we were greatly surpriz'd, when coming nearer the
Lane, or Pass, we saw a confus'd Number of Wolves
standing just at the Entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the Wood, we
heard the Noise of a Gun; and looking that Way, out
rush'd a Horse, with a Saddle, and a Bridle on him, flying
like the Wind, and sixteen or seventeen Wolves after him,
full Speed; indeed, the Horse had the Heels of them; but
as we suppos'd that he could not hold it at that rate, we
doubted not but they would get up with him at last, and
no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible Sight; for riding up to
the Entrance where the Horse came out, we found the
Carcass of another Horse, and of two Men, devour'd by
the ravenous Creatures, and one of the Men was no doubt
the same who we heard fir'd the Gun; for there lay a Gun
just by him, fir'd off; but as to the Man, his Head, and the
This fill'd us with Horror, and we knew not what
Course to take, but the Creatures resolv'd us soon; for
they gather'd about us presently, in hopes of Prey; and I
verily believe there were three hundred of them: It hap-
pen'd very much to our Advantage, that at the Entrance
into the Wood, but a little Way from it, there lay some
large Timber Trees, which had been cut down the Sum-
mer before, and I suppose lay there for Carriage; I drew
my little Troop in among those Trees, and placing our
selves in a Line, behind one long Tree, I advis'd them
all to light, and keeping that Tree before us, for a Breast
Work, to stand in a Triangle, or three Fronts, enclosing
our Horses in the Center.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
furious Charge than the Creatures made upon us in the
Place; they came on us with a growling kind of a Noise
(and mounted the Piece of Timber, which as I said, was
our Breast Work) as if they were only rushing upon their
Prey; and this Fury of theirs, it seems, was principally

occasion'd by their seeing our Horses behind us, which
was the Prey they aim'd at: I order'd our Men to fire as
before, every other Man; and they took their Aim so sure,
that indeed they kill'd several of the Wolves at the first
Volley; but there was a Necessity to keep a continual Fir-
ing; for they came on like Devils, those behind pushing
on those before.
When we had fir'd our second Volley of our Fusees,
we thought they stopp'd a little, and I hop'd they would
have gone off; but it was but a Moment; for others came
forward again; so we fir'd two Volleys of our Pistols, and
I believe in these four Firings, we had kill'd seventeen or
eighteen of them, and lam'd twice as many; yet they came
on again.
I was loath to spend our last Shot too hastily; so I call'd
my Servant, not my Man Friday  for he was better em-
ploy'd; for with the greatest Dexterity imaginable, he
had charg'd my Fusee, and his own, while we were en-
gag'd; but as I said, I call'd my other Man, and giving
him a Horn of Powder, I bad him lay a Train, all along
the Piece of Timber, and let it be a large Train; he did so,
and had but just Time to get away, when the Wolves
came up to it, and some were got up upon it; when I snap-
ping an uncharg'd Pistol, close to the Powder, set it on
fire; those that were upon the Timber were scorcht with
it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jump'd in among
us, with the Force and Fright of the Fire; we dispatch'd
these in an Instant, and the rest were so frighted with the
Light, which the Night, for it was now very near Dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I order'd our last Pistol to be fir'd off in
one Volley, and after that we gave a Shout; upon this, the
Wolves turn'd Tail, and we sally'd immediately upon
near twenty lame Ones, who we found struggling on the
Ground, and fell a cutting them with our Swords, which
answer'd our Expectation; for the Crying and Howling
they made, was better understood by their Fellows, so
that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, kill'd about three Score of them;
and had it been Day-Light, we had kill'd many more:
The Field of Battle being thus clear'd, we made forward
again; for we had still near a League to go. We heard the
ravenous Creatures houl and yell in the Woods as we
went, several Times; and sometimes we fancy'd we saw
some of them, but the Snow dazling our Eyes, we were
not certain; so in about an Hour more, we came to the
Town, where we were to lodge, which we found in a ter-
rible Fright, and all in Arms; for it seems, that the Night
before, the Wolves and some Bears had broke into the
Village in the Night, and put them in a terrible Fright;
and they were oblig'd to keep Guard Night and Day, but
especially in the Night, to preserve their Cattle, and in-
deed their People.
The next Morning our Guide was so ill, and his Limbs
swell'd with the rankling of his two Wounds, that he
could go no farther; so we were oblig'd to take a new
Guide there, and go to Thoulouse, where we found a warm
Climate, a fruitful pleasant Country, and no Snow, no
Wolves, or any Thing like them; but when we told our
Story at Tboulouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great Forest at the Foot of the Moun-
tains, especially when the Snow lay on the Ground: But
they enquir'd much what kind of a Guide we had gotten,
that would venture to bring us that Way in such a severe
Season: and told us, it was very much we were not all de-
vour'd. When we told them how we plac'dour selves, and
the Horses in the Middle, they blam'd us exceedingly,
and toldusit wasfifty to one but we had been all destroy'd;
for it was the Sight of the Horses which made the Wolves
so furious, seeing their Prey; and that at other Times they
are really afraid of a Gun; but the being excessive Hun-
gry, and raging on that Account, the Eagerness to come
at the Horses had made them sensless of Danger; and
that if we had not by the continu'd Fire, and at last by the
Stratagem of the Train of Powder, master'd them, it had
been great Odds but that we had been torn to Pieces;
whereas had we been content to have sat still on Horse-
back, and fir'd as Horsemen, they would not have taken
the Horses for so much their own, when Men were on
their Backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at
last, if we had stood altogether, and left our Horses, they
would have been so eager to have devour'd them, that we
might have come off safe, especially having our Fire Arms
in our Hands, and being so many in Number.
For my Part, I was never so sensible of Danger in my
Life; for seeing above three hundred Devils come roar-
ing and open mouth'd to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave my self over for lost; and
as it was, I believe, I shall never care to cross those Moun-
tains again; I think I would much rather go a thousand
Leagues by Sea, though I were sure to meet with a Storm
once a Week.
I have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in my
Passage through France; nothing but what other Travel-
lers have given an Account of, with much more Advan-
tage than I can. I travell'd from Thoulouse to Paris, and
without any considerable Stay, came to Callais, and land-
ed safe at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having
had a severely cold Season to travel in.
I was now come to the Center of my Travels, and had
in a little Time all my new discover'd Estate safe about
me, the Bills of Exchange which I brought with me hav-
ing been very currently paid.
My principal Guide, and Privy Councellor, was my
good antient Widow, who in Gratitude for the Money I
had sent her, thought no Pains too much, or Care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with
every Thing, that I was perfectly easy as to the Security
of my Effects; and indeed, I was very happy from my Be-
ginning, and now to the End, in the unspotted Integrity
of this good Gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my Effects with\
this Woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the
Brasils; but now another Scruple came in my Way, and
that was Religion; for as I had entertain'd some Doubts
about the Roman Religion, even while I was abroad, espe-
cially in my State of Solitude; so I knew there was no go-
ing to the Brasils for me, much less going to settle there,
unless I resolv'd to embrace the Roman Catholick Reli-
gion, without any Reserve; unless on the other hand, I
resolv'd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be a Martyr
for Religion, and die in the Inquisition; so I resolv'd to
stay at Home, and if I could find Means for it, to dispose
of my Plantation.
To this Purpose I wrote to my old Friend at Lisbon,
who in Return gave me Notice, that he could easily dis-
pose of it there: But that if I thought fit to give him Leave
to offer it in my Name to the two Merchants, the Sur-
vivors of my Trustees, who liv'd in the Brasils, who must
fully understand the Value of it, who liv'd just upon the
Spot, and who I knew were very rich; so that he believ'd
they would be fond of buying it; he did not doubt, but
I should make 4 or 5000 Pieces of Eight, the more of
it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer it to
them, and he did so; and in about 8 Months more, the
Ship being then return'd, he sent me Account, that they
had accepted the Offer, and had remitted 33000 Pieces
of Eight, to a Correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay
for it.
In Return, I sign'd the Instrument of Sale in the Form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old Man,
who sent me Bills of Exchange for 328 000 Pieces of Eight
to me, for the Estate; reserving the Payment of 100 Moi-
dores a Year to him, the old Man, during his Life, and 50
Moidores afterwards to his Son for his Life, which I had
promised them, which the Plantation was to make good
as a Rent-Charge. And thus I have given the first Part of
J a Life of Fortune and Adventure, a Life of Providences
j Checquer-Work, and of a Variety which the World will
I seldom be able to show the like of: Beginning foolishly,
I but closing much more happily than any Part of it ever
gave me Leave so much as to hope for.
. Any one would think, that in this State of complicated
good Fortune, I was past running any more Hazards;
i and so indeed I had been, if other Circumstances had con-
1 curr'd, but I was inur'd to a wandring Life, had no Fami-
ly, not many Relations, nor, however rich had I contract-
ed much Acquaintance; and though I had sold myEstate
in the Brasils, yet I could not keep the Country out of my
Head, and had a great Mind to be upon the Wing again,
especially I could not resist the strong Inclination I had
to see my Island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were
in Being there, and how the Rogues I left there had used
them.
My true Friend, the Widow, earnestly diswaded me
from it, and so far prevail'd with me, that for almost seven
Years she prevented my running Abroad; during which
time, I took my two Nephews, the Children of one of my
Brothers into my Care: The eldest having something of
his own, I bred up as a Gentleman, and gave him a Settle-
ment of some Addition to his Estate, after my Decease;
the other I put out to a Captain of a Ship; and after five
Years, finding him a sensible bold enterprising young
Fellow, I put him into a good Ship, and sent him to Sea:
And this young Fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I
was, to farther Adventures my self.
In the mean time, I in Part settled my self here; for
first of all I marry'd, and that not either to my Disadvan-
tage or Dissatisfaction, and had three Children, two Sons
and one Daughter: But my Wife dying, and my Nephew
coming Home with good Success from a Voyage to Spain,
my Inclination to go Abroad, and his Importunity pre-
vailed and engag'd me to go in his Ship, as a private Tra-
der to the Easl Indies: This was in the Year 1694.
In this Voyage I visited my new Collony in the Island,
saw my Successors the Spaniards, had the whole Story of
their Lives, and of the Villains I left there; how at first
they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards were oblig'd to use Violence with them, how
they were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the
Spaniards used them; a History, if it were entred into, as
full of Variety and wonderful Accidents, as my own Part,
particularly also as to their Battles with the Carribeans,
who landed several times upon the Island, and as to the
Improvement they made upon the Island it self, and how
five of them made an Attempt upon the main Land, and
brought away eleven Men and five Women Prisoners,
by which, at my coming, I found about twenty young
Children on the Island.
Here I stay'd about 20 Days, left them Supplies of all
necessary things, and particularly of Arms, Powder, Shot,
Cloaths, Tools, and two Workmen, which I brought from
England with me, viz. a Carpenter and a Smith.
Besides this, I shar'd the Island into Parts with 'em,
reserv'd to my self the Property of the whole, but gave
them such Parts respectively as they agreed on; and hav-
ing settled all things with them, and engaged them not to
leave the Place, I left them there.
From thence I touch'd at the Brasils, from whence I
sent a Bark, which I bought there, with more People to
the Island, and in it, besides other Supplies, I sent seven
Women, being such as I found proper for Service, or for
Wives to such as would take them: As to the English Men,
I promis'd them to send them some Women from Eng-
land, with a good Cargoe of Necessaries, if they would
apply themselves to Planting, which I afterwards per-
form'd. And the Fellows prov'd very honest and diligent
after they were master'd, and had their Properties set
apart for them. I sent them also from the Brasils five
Cows, three of them being big with Calf, some Sheep, and
some Hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably
encreas'd.
But all these things, with an Account how 300 Carib-
bees came and invaded them, and ruin'd their Plantations,
and how they fought with that whole Number twice,
and were at first defeated, and three of them kill'd; but at
last a Storm destroying their Enemies Canoes, they fa-
mish'd or destroy'd almost all the rest, and renew'd and
recover'd the Possession of their Plantation, and still liv'd
upon the Island.
All these things, with some very surprizing Incidents
in some new Adventures of my own, for ten Years more,
I may perhaps give a farther Account of hereafter.
FINIS.
The Farther Adventures of
ROBINSON
CRUSOE
The Farther Adventures of
Being the Second and Last Part of his
Life, and the Strange Surprizing
Accounts of his Travels
Round three Parts of the
Globe
Written by Himself
To which is added a Map of the World,
in which is Delineated the Voyages of
Robinson Crusoe

THE
FARTHER ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE, &c.
THAT homely Proverb used on so many Occasions
in England, viz. 'That what is bred in the Bone will not
go out of the Flesh, was never more verify'd, than in the
Story of my Life. Any one would think, that after thirty-
five Years Affliction, and a Variety of unhappy Circum-
stances, which few Men, if any ever, went thro' before,
and after near seven Years of Peace and Enjoyment in the
Fulness of all Things; grown old, and when, if ever, it
might be allowed me to have had Experience of every
State of middle Life, and to know which was most adapt-
ed to make a Man compleatly happy: I say, after all this,
any one would have thought that the native Propensity
to rambling, which I gave an Account of in my first Set-
ting out into the World, to have been so predominate in
my Thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile Part be
fully evacuated, or at least condens'd, and I might at 61
Years of Age have been a little enclin'd to stay at Home,
and have done venturing Life and Fortune any more.
Nay farther, the common Motive of foreign Adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no Fortune to make,
I had nothing to seek: If I had gain'd ten thousand Pound,
I had been no richer; for I had already sufficient for me,
and for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was visi-
bly encreasing; for having no great Family, I could not
spend the Income of what I had, unless I would set up for
an expensive Way of Living, such as a great Family, Ser-
vants, Equipage, Gayety, and the like, which were Things
I had no Notion of, or Inclination to; so that I had no-
thing indeed to do, but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I
had got, and see it encrease daily upon my Hands.
Yet all these Things had no Effect: upon me, or at least:,
not enough to resist the strong Inclination I had to go
Abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical Dis-
temper; particularly the Desire of seeing my new Planta-
tion in the Island, and the Colony I left there, run in my
Head continually. I dream'd of it all Night, and my Ima-
gination run upon it all Day; it was uppermost in all my
Thoughts, and my Fancy work'd so steadily and strongly
upon it, that I talk'd of it in my Sleep; in short, nothing
could remove it out of my Mind; it even broke so violent-
ly into all my Discourses, that it made my Conversation
tiresome; for I could talk of nothing else, all my Dis-
course run into it, even to Impertinence, and I saw it my
self.
I have often heard Persons of good Judgment say,That
all the Stir People make in the World about Ghosts and
Apparitions, is owing to the Strength of Imagination, and
the powerful Operation of Fancy in their Minds; that
there is no such Thing as a Spirit appearing, or a Ghost
walking, and the like: That Peoples poring affectionately
upon the past Conversation of their deceas'd Friends, so
realizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying upon
some extraordinary Circumstances, that they see them;
talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in Truth,
there is nothing but Shadow and Vapour in the Thing;
and they really know nothing of the Matter.
For my Part, I know not to this Hour, whether there
are any such Things as real Apparitions, Spectres, or
Walking of People after they are dead, or whether there
is any Thing in the Stories they tell us of that Kind, more
than the Product of Vapours, sick Minds, and wandring
Fancies; But this I know, that my Imagination work'd
up to such a Height, and brought me into such Extasies
of Vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually sup-
pos'd my self, often-times upon the Spot, at my old Castle
behind the Trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday's Father,
and the reprobate Sailors I left upon the Island; nay, I
fancy'd I talk'd with them, and look'd at them so steadily,
tho' I was broad awake, as at Persons jusl: before me; and
this I did till I often frighted my self with the Images my
Fancy represented to me: One Time in my Sleep I had
the Villany of the 3 Pyrate Sailors so lively related to me
by the firsl: Spaniard and Friday's Father, that it was sur-
prizing ; they told me how they barbarously attempted to
murder all the Spaniards, and that they set Fire to the
Provisions they had laid up, on Purpose to distress and
starve them, Things that I had never heard of, and that
indeed were never all of them true in Faft: But it was so
warm in my Imagination, and so realiz'd to me, that to
the Hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded, but that
it was or would be true; also how I resented it, when the
Spaniard complain'd to me, and how I brought them to
Justice, try'd them before me, and order'd them all three
to be hang'd: What there was really in this, shall be seen
in its Place: For however, I came to form such Things in
my Dream, and what secret Converse of Spirits injected
it, yet there was very much of it true. I say, I own, that
this Dream had nothing in it literally and specifically
true: But the general Part was so true, the base villainous
Behaviour of these three harden'd Rogues was such, and
had been so much worse than all I can describe, that the
vol. 11 i
Dream had too much Similitude of the Fact, and as I
would afterwards have punished them severely; so if I
had hang'd them all, I had been much in the Right, and
should ha* been justifiable both by the Laws of God and
Man.
But to return to my Story; in this Kind of Temper I
had liv'd some Years, I had no Enjoyment of my Life, no
pleasant Hours, no agreeable Diversion, but what had
some Thing or other of this in it; so that my Wife, who
saw my Mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seri-
ously one Night, That she believ'd there was some secret
powerful Impulse of Providence upon me, which had de-
termin'd me to go thither again; and that she found no-
thing hindred my going, but my being engag'd to a Wife
and Children. She told me that it was true she could not
think of parting with me; but as she was assur'd, that if
she was dead, it would be the first Thing I would do: So
as it seem'd to her, that the Thing was determin'd above,
she would not be the only Obstruction: For if I thought
fit, and resolv'd to go here she found me very intent
upon her Words, and that I look'd very earnestly at her;
so that it a little disorder'd her, and she stopp'd. I ask'd
her, Why she did not go on, and say out what she was go-
ing to say? But I perceiv'd her Heart was too full, and
some Tears stood in her Eyes: Speak out my Dear, said I,
Are you willing I should go? No, says she very affectionate-
lyI am far from willing: But if you are resolv'd to go,
says she, and rather than I will be the only Hindrance, I
will go with you; for tho' I think it a most preposterous
Thing for one of your Years, and in your Condition, yet
if it must be, said she again weeping, I won't leave you;
for if it be of Heaven, you must do it. There is no resisting
it; and if Heaven makes it your Duty to go, he will also
make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me,
that I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate Behaviour of my Wife's brought me
a little out of the Vapours, and I began to consider what I
was a doing; I corrected my wandring Fancy, and began
to argue with my self sedately, what Business I had after
threescore Years, and after such a Life of tedious Suffer-
ings and Disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a
Manner, I say, what Business I had to rush into new
Hazards, and put my self upon Adventures, fit only for
Youth and Poverty to run into.
With those Thoughts, I considered my new Engage-
ment, that I had a Wife, one Child born, and my Wife
then great with Child of another; that I had all the World
could give me, and had no Need to seek Hazards for
Gain; that I was declining in Years, and ought to think
rather of leaving what I had gain'd, than of seeking to en-
crease it; that as to what my Wife had said, of its being an
Impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my Duty to
go, I had no Notion of that; so after many of these Cogita-
tions, I struggled with the Power of my Imagination,
reason'd my self out of it, as I believe People may always do
in like Cases, if they will; and, in a Word, I conquer'd it;
compos'd my self with such Arguments as occur'd to my
Thought, and which my present Condition furnish'd me
plentifully with, and particularly, as the most effectual
Method, I resolv'd to divert my self with other Things,
and to engage in some Business that might effectually rye
me up from any more Excursions of this Kind; for I found
that Thing return upon me chiefly when I was idle, had
nothing to do, or any Thing of Moment immediately be-
fore me.
To this Purpose I bought a little Farm in the County
of Bedford, and resolv'd to remove my self thither. I had a
little convenient House upon it, and the Land about it I
found was capable of great Improvement, and that it was
many Ways suited to my Inclination, which delighted in
Cultivating, Managing, Planting, and Improving of
Land; and particularly, being an Inland Country, I was
remov'd from conversing among Ships, Sailors, and
Things relating to the remote Part of the World.
In a Word, I went down to my Farm, settled my Fami-
ly, bought me Ploughs, Harrows, a Cart, Wagon, Horses,
Cows, Sheep; and setting seriously to Work, became in
one half Year, a meer Country Gentleman; my Thoughts
were entirely taken up in managing my Servants, culti-
vating the Ground, Enclosing, Planting, &c. and I liv'd,
as I thought, the most agreeable Life that Nature was
capable of directing, or that a Man always bred to Mis-
fortunes was capable of being retreated to.
I farm'd upon my own Land, I had no Rent to pay,was
limited by no Articles; I could pull up or cut down as I
pleased: What I planted, was for my self, and what I im-
proved, was for my Family; and having thus left off the
Thoughts of Wandring, I had not the least Discomfort
in any Part of Life, as to this World. Now I thought in-
deed, that I enjoy'd the middle State of Life, that my Fa-
ther so earnestly recommended to me, and liv'd a kind of
heavenly Life, something like what is described by the
Poet upon the Subject of a Country Life.
Free from Vices, free from Care,
Age has no Pain, and Youth no Snare.
But in the Middle of all this Felicity, one Blow from
unforeseen Providence unhing'd me at once; and not on-
ly made a Breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me, by its Consequences, into a deep Relapse into
the wandring Disposition, which, as I may say, being
born in my very Blood, soon recover'd its hold of me, and
like the Returns of a violent Distemper, came on with an
irresistible Force upon me; so that nothing could make
any more Impression upon me. This Blow was the Loss
of my Wife.
It is not my Business here to write an Elegy upon my
Wife, give a Character of her particular Virtues, and make
my Court to the Sex by the Flattery of a Funeral Sermon.
She was, in a few Words, the Stay of all my Affairs, the
Center of all my Enterprizes, the Engine, that by her
Prudence reduc'd me to that happy Compass I was in,
from the most extravagant and ruinous Project that flut-
tered in my Head, as above; and did more to guide my
rambling Genius, than a Mother's Tears, a Father's In-
structions^ Friend's Counselor all my own reasoning Po-
wers could do. I was happy in listening to her Tears, and
in being mov'd by her Entreaties, and to the last Degree
desolate and dislocated in the World by the Loss of her.
When she was gone, the World look'd aukwardly
round me; I was as much a Stranger in it, in my Thoughts,
as I was in the Brasils, when I went first on Shore there;
and as much alone, except as to the Assistance of Ser-
vants, as I was in my Island. I knew neither what to do, or
what not to do. I saw the World busy round me, one Part
labouring for Bread, and the other Part squandring in
vile Excesses or empty Pleasures, equally miserable, be-
cause the End they propos'd still fled from them; for the
Man of Pleasure every Day surfeited of his Vice, and
heaped up Work for Sorrow and Repentance; and the
Men of Labour spent their Strength in daily Strugglings
for Bread to maintain the vital Strength they labour'd
with, so living in a daily Circulation of Sorrow, living but
to work, and working but to live, as if daily Bread were
the only End of wearisome Life, and a wearisome Life the
only Occasion of daily Bread.
This put me in Mind of the Life I liv'd in my King-
dom, the Island; where I suffer'd no more Corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more Goats, be-
cause I had no more Use for them: Where the Money lay
in the Drawer 'till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
Favour to be look'd upon in 20 Years.
All these Things, had I improv'd them as I ought to
have done, and as Reason and Religion had dictated to
me, would have taught to me to search farther than hu-
man Enjoyments for a full Felicity, and that there was
something which certainly was the Reason and End of
Life, superiour to all these Things, and which was either
to be possess'd, or at least hop'd for on this Side the
Grave.
But my Sage Counsellor was gone, I was like a Ship
without a Pilot, that could only run afore the Wind: My
Thoughts run all away again into the old Affair, my Head
quite was turn'd with the Whimsies of foreign Adven-
tures, and all the pleasant innocent Amusements of my
Farm, and my Garden, my Cattle, and my Family, which
before entirely possest me, were nothing to me, had no
Relish, and were like Musick to one that has no Ear, or
Food to one that has no Taste: In a Word, I resolv'd to
leave off House-keeping, lett my Farm, and return to
London; and in a few Months after, I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was
before, I had no Relish to the Place, no Employment in
it, nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle Person,
of whom it may be said, he is perfectly useless in God's
Creation; and it is not one Farthing Matter to the rest of
his Kind, whether he be dead or alive. This also was the
Life which of all Circumstances of Life was the most my
Aversion, who had been all my Days used to an active
Life; and I would often say to my self, A State of Idleness
is the very Dregs of Life; and indeed I thought I was much
more suitably employ'd, when I was 26 Days a making
me a Deal Board.
It was now the Beginning of the Year 1693, when my
Nephew, who as I had observ'd before I had brought up
to the Sea, and had made him Commander of a Ship, was
come Home from a short Voyage to Bilboa, being the first
he had made; and he came to me, and told me, that some
Merchants of his Acquaintance had been proposing to
him to go a Voyage for them to the Easl Indies and to
China, as private Traders: And now Uncle, says he, if you
will go to Sea with me, I'll engage to land you upon your
old Habitation in the Island, for we are to touch at the
Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater Demonstration of a future
State, and of the Existence of an invisible World, than
the Concurrence of second Causes, with the Ideas of
Things, which we form in our Minds, perfectly reserv'd,
and not communicated to any in the World.
My Nephew knew nothing how far my Distemper of
wandring was return'd upon me, and I knew nothing of
what he had in his Thoughts to say, when that very Morn-
ing before he came to me, I had in a great deal of Confu-
sion of Thought, and revolving every Part of my Circum-
stances in my Mind, come to this Resolution, viz. That I
would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old Sea-Captain,
and so if it was rational and practicable, I would go and
see the Island again, and see what was become of my Peo-
pie there. I had pleas'd my self with the Thoughts of peo-
pling the Place, and carrying Inhabitants from hence,
getting a Patent for the Possession, and I know not what;
when in the Middle of all this, in comes my Nephew, as I
have said, with his Project of carrying me thither, in his
Way to the Easl Indies.
I paus'd a while at his Words, and looking steadily at
him, What Devil, said I, sent you of this unlucky Errand?
My Nephew star'd as if he had been frighted at first;
but perceiving I was not much displeas'd with the Pro-
posal, he recover'd himself. I hope it may not be an un-
lucky Proposal, Sir, says he, I dare say you would be
pleas'd to see your new Colony there, where you once
reigned with more Felicity, than most of your Brother
Monarchs in the World.
In a Word, the Scheme hit so exactly with my Temper,
that is to say, the Prepossession I was under, and of which
I have said so much, that I told him in few Words, if he
agreed with the Merchants, I would go with him: But I
told him, I would not promise to go any farther than my
own Island. Why Sir, says he, you don't want to be left
there again, I hope ? Why, said I, can you not take me up
again in your Return? He told me, it could not be possi-
ble, that the Merchants would allow him to come that
Way with a loaden Ship of such value, it being a Month's
Sail out of his Way, and might be three or four: Besides,
Sir, if I should miscarry, said he, and not return at all,
then you would be just reduced to the Condition you were
in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a Reme-
dy for it, which was to carry a framed Sloop on board the
Ship, which being taken in Pieces, and shipp'don board
the Ship, might by the Help of some Carpenters, who
we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the Island,
and finish'd, fit to go to Sea in a few Days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the Importunities
of my Nephew join'd in so effectually with my Inclina-
tion, that nothing could oppose me: On the other Hand,
my Wife being dead, I had no Body concern'd themselves
so much for me, as to perswade me one Way or other, ex-
cept my ancient good Friend the Widow, who earnestly
struggled with me to consider my Years, my easy Circum-
stances, and the needless Hazards of a long Voyage; and
above all, my young Children: But it was all to no Pur-
pose, I had an irresistible Desire to the Voyage; and I
told her, I thought there was something so uncommon in
the Impressions I had upon my Mind for the Voyage,
that it would be a kind of resisting Providence, if I should
attempt to stay at Home; after which, she ceas'd her Ex-
postulations, and join'd with me, not only in making Pro-
vision for my Voyage, but also in settling my Family Af-
fairs for my Absence, and providing for the Education
of my Children.
In Order to this, I made my Will, and settled the Es-
tate I had, in such a Manner for my Children, and placed
in such Hands, that I was perfectly easy and satisfy'd
they would have Justice done them, whatever might befal
me; and for their Education, I left it wholly to my Widow,
with a sufficient Maintenance to her self for her Care: All
which she richly deserv'd; for no Mother could have
taken more Care in their Education, or understand it
better; and as she liv'd 'till I came Home, I also liv'd to
thank her for it.
My Nephew was ready to sail about the Beginning of
January 1694-5, and I with my Man Friday went on
board in the Downs the 8th, having besides that Sloop
which I mention'd above, a very considerable Cargo of
all Kinds of necessary Things for my Colony, which if I
did not find in good Condition, I resolv'd to leave so.
First, I carry'd with me some Servants, who I pur-
pos'd to place there, as Inhabitants, or at least to set on
Work there upon my own Account while I stay'd, and
either to leave them there, or carry them forward as they
should appear willing; particularly, I carry'd two Car-
penters, a Smith, and a very handy ingenious Fellow, who
was a Cooper by Trade but was also a general Mechan-
ick; for he was dextrous at making Wheels, and Hand-
Mills to grind Corn, was a good Turner, and a good Pot-
Maker; he also made any Thing that was proper to make
of Earth, or of Wood; in a Word, we call'd him Our Jack
of all Trades.
With these I carry'd a Taylor, who had offer'd himself
to go Passenger to the Easl Indies with my Nephew, but
afterwards consented to stay on our New Plantation, and
prov'd a most necessary handy Fellow, as could be desir'd,
in many other Businesses, besides that of this Trade; for
as I observ'd formerly, Necessity arms us for all Employ-
ments.
My Cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have not kept
an Account of the Particulars, consisted of a sufficient
Quantity of Linnen, and some thin English Stuffs for
cloathing the Spaniards that I expected to find there, and
enough of them, as by my Calculation might comfortably
supply them for seven Years; if I remember right, the
Materials I carry'd for cloathing them with, Gloves, Hats
Shoes, Stockings, and all such Things as they could want
for wearing, amounted to above 200 Pounds, including
some Beds, Bedding, and Houshold-Stuff, particularly
Kitchen-Utensils, with Pots, Kettles, Peuter, Brass, &c.
and near a hundred Pound more in Iron-Work, Nails,
Tools of every Kind, Staples, Hooks, Hinges, and every
necessary Thing I could think of.
I carry'd also an hundred spare Arms, Muskets, and
Fuzees, besides some Pistols, a considerable Quantity of
Shot of all Sizes, and two Pieces of Brass Cannon; and
because I knew not what Time, and what Extremities I
was providing for, I carried an hundred Barrels of Pow-
der, besides Swords, Cutlasses, and the Iron Part of some
Pikes, and Halberts; so that in short we had a large Maga-
zine of all Sorts of Stores; and I made my Nephew carry
two small Quarter-Deck Guns more than he wanted for
his Ship, to leave behind, if there was Occasion; that
when we came there, we might build a Fort, and man it
against all Sortsof Enemies: Andindeed, I at first thought
there was Need enough for it all, and much more, if we
hop'd to maintain our Possession of the Island, as shall be
seen in the Course of that Story.
I had not such bad Luck in this Voyage as I had been
used to meet with; and therefore shall have the less Occa-
sion to interrupt the Reader, who perhaps may be impa-
tient to hear how Matters went with my Colony; yet some
odd Accidents, cross Winds, and bad Weather happen'd,
on this first setting out, which made the Voyage longer
than I expected it at first; and I who had never made but
one Voyage, (viz.) my fir si Voyage to Guinea, in which I
might be said to come back again, as the Voyage was at
first designed, began to think the same ill Fate still at-
tended me; and that I was born to be never contented with
being on Shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at Sea.
Contrary Winds first put us to the Northward, and we
were oblig'd to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay
Wind-bound two and twenty Days; but we had this Satis-
faction with the Disaster, that Provisions were here ex-
ceeding cheap, and in the utmost Plenty; so that while
we lay here, never touch'd the Ship's Stores, but rather
added to them; here also I took in several live Hogs, and
two Cows, and Calves, which I resolv'd, if I had a good
Passage, to put on Shore in my Island, but we found
Occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a
very fair Gale of Wind for some Days. As I remember, it
might be about the 20th of February in the Evening late,
when the Mate having the Watch, came into the Round-
house, and told us, he saw a Flash of Fire, and heard a
Gun fir'd, and while he was telling us of it, a Boy came in,
and told us the Boatswain heard another. This made us all
run out upon the Quarter-Deck, where for a while we
heard nothing, but in a few Minutes we saw a very great
Light, and found that there was some very terrible Fire
at a Distance; immediately we had Recourse to our Rec-
konings, in which we all agreed, that there could be no
Land that Way, in which the Fire shew'd it self, no not
for 500 Leagues, for it appear'd at W.N.W. Upon this
we concluded it must be some Ship on Fire at Sea; and as
by our hearing the Noise of Guns just before, we conclud-
ed it could not be far off: We stood directly towards ir,
and were presently satisfy'd we should discover it, be-
cause the farther we sail'd, the greater the Light appear'd,
tho' the Weather being haizy, we could not perceive any
Thing but the Light for a while; in about half an Hour's
Sailing, the Wind being fair for us, tho' not much of
it, and the Weather clearing up a little, we could plainly
discern that it was a great Ship on fire in the Middle of the
Sea.
I was most sensible touch'd with this Disaster tho' not
at all acquainted with the Persons engag'd in it; I present-
ly recollected my former Circumstances, and in what
Condition I was in, when taken up by the Portugal Cap-
tain ; and how much more deplorable the Circumstances
of the poor Creatures belonging to this Ship must be, if
they had no other Ship in Company with them: Upon
this, I immediately order'd, that five Guns should be fir'd,
one soon after another, that, if possible, we might give
Notice to them, that there was Help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their
Boat; for tho' we could see the Flame of the Ship, yet
they, it being Night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some Time upon this, only driving as the
burning Ship drove, waiting for Day-Light; when, on a
sudden, to our great Terror, tho' we had Reason to ex-
pect it, the Ship blew up in the Air; and immediately, that
is to say, in a few Minutes, all the Fire was out, that is to
say, the rest of the Ship sunk: This was a terrible, and in-
deed an afflicting Sight, for the Sake of the poor Men,
who, I concluded, must be either all destroy'd in the Ship,
or be in the utmost Distress in their Boat in the Middle
of the Ocean, which at present, by Reason it was dark, I
could not see: However, to direct them as well as I could,
I caused Lights to be hung out in all the Parts of the Ship
where we could, and which we had Lanthorns for, and
kept firing Guns all the Night long, letting them know
by this, that there was a Ship not far off.
About 8 aClockinthe Morningwediscover'dtheShip's
Boats by the Help of our Perspective Glasses, found there
were two of them, both throng'd with People, and deep in
the Water: We perceived they row'd, the Wind being
against them, that they saw our Ship, and did their ut-
most to make us see them.
We immediately spread our Antient to let them know
we saw them, and hung a Waft out as a Signal for them to
come on Board, and then made more Sail, standing di-
rectly to them. In little more than half an Hour we came
up with them and, in a word, took them all in, being no
less than sixty four Men, Women, and Children; for
there were a great many Passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French Merchant
Ship of 300 Tun, homeward bound from Quebeck, in the
River of Canada. The Master gave us a long Account of
the Distress of his Ship, how the Fire began in the Steer-
age by the Negligence of the Steersman; but on his cry-
ing out for Help, was, as every Body thought, entirely
put out, when they found that some Sparks of the first
Fire had gotten into some Part of the Ship, so difficult to
come at, that they could not effectually quench it, till get-
ting in between the Timbers, and within the Ceiling of
the Ship, it proceeded into the Hold, and master'd all the
Skill, and all the Application they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then, but to get into their
Boats, which to their great Comfort were pretty large,
being their Long-Boat, and a great Shalloup, besides a
small Skiff which was of no great Service to them, other
than to get some fresh Water and Provisionsin to her, after
they had secur'd their Lives from the Fire. They had in-
deed small Hope of their Lives by getting into these Boats
at that Distance from any Land, only as they said well,
that they were escap'd from the Fire, and had a Possibility
that some Ship might happen to be at Sea, and might take
them in. They had Sails, Oars, and a Compass, and were
preparing to make the best of their Way back to New-
Jound-Land, the Wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an
easy Gale at S. E. by E. They had as much Provisions and
Water, as with sparing it so as to be next door to starving,
might support them about 12 Days; in which, if they had
no bad Weather, and no contrary Winds, the Captain
said, he hop'd he might get the Banks of Newfound-
Land, and might perhaps take some Fish to sustain them
till they might go on Shore. But there were so many
Chances against them in all these Cases; such as, Storms
to overset and founder them, Rains and Cold to benumb
and perish their Limbs, contrary Winds to keep them
out and starve them, that it must have been next to mirac-
ulous if they had escap'd.
In the midst of their Consultations, every one being
hopeless, and ready to despair, the Captain with Tears in
his Eyes told me, they were on a sudden surpriz'd with
the Joy of hearing a Gun fire, and after that four more;
these were the five Guns which I caused to be fired at first
seeing the Light: This reviv'd their Hearts, and gave
them the Notice, which, as above, I desir'd it should, (viz.)
that there was a Ship at hand for their Help.
It was upon the hearing these Guns, that they took
down their Masts and Sails; the Sound coming from the
Windward, they resolv'd to lye by till Morning. Some
Time after this, hearing no more Guns, they fir'd three
Muskets, one a considerable While after another; but
these, the Wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some Time after that again, they were still more agree-
ably surpriz'd with seeing our Lights, and hearing the
Guns, which, as I have said, I caus'd to be fir'd all the rest
of the Night; this set them to work with their Oars to
keep their Boats a-head, at least, that we might the sooner
come up with them; and at last, to their inexpressible Joy,
they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several Gestures,
the strange Extasies, the Variety of Postures which these
poor deliver'd People run into, to express the Joy of their
Souls at so unexpected a Deliverance; Grief and Fear are
easily described; Sighs, Tears, Groans, and a very few
Motions of the Head and Hands make up the Sum of its
Variety: But an Excess of Joy, a Surprize of Joy has a
Thousand Extravagancies in it; there were some inTears,
some raging, and tearing themselves, as if they had been
in the greatest Agonies of Sorrow, some stark-raving and
down-right lunatick, some ran about the Ship stamping
with their Feet, others wringing their Hands; some were
dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying;
many quite dumb, not able to speak a Word; others sick
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a
few were Crossing themselves, and giving God Thanks.
I would not wrong them neither, there might be many
that were thankful afterward, but the Passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it, they were thrown into Extasies and a Kind of Frenzy,
and it was but a very few that were compos'd and serious
in their Joy.
Perhaps the Case may have some Addition to it from
the particular Circumstance of that Nation they belong'd
to, I mean the French, whose Temper is allow'd to be more
volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly, and their
Spirits more fluid than in other Nations. I am not Philo-
sopher enough to determine the Cause, but nothing I had
ever seen before came up to it: The Extasies poor Friday,
my trusty Savage, was in when he found his Father in the
Boat, came the nearest to it, and the Surprize of the Mas-
ter and his two Companions, who I deliver'd from the
Villains that set them on Shore in the Island, came a little
Way towards it, but nothing was to compare to this,
either that I saw in Friday, or any where else in my t»
Life.
It is further observable, that these Extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different Manner I have men-
tion'd in different Persons only: But all the Variety would
appear in a short Succession of Moments in one and the
same Person. A Man that we saw this Minute dumb, and
as it were stupid and confounded, should the next Minute
be dancing and hallowing like an Antick; and the next
Moment be tearing his Hair, or pulling his Clothes to
Pieces, and stamping them under his Feet, like a mad
Man; a few Moments after that, we should have him all
in Tears, then sick, then swooning, and had not immedi-
ate Help been had, would, in a few Moments more have
been dead; and thus it was not with one or two, or ten or
twenty, but with the greatest Part of them; and if I re-
member right, our Surgeon was oblig'd to let above thirty
of them Blood.
There were two Priests among them, one an old Man,
and the other a young Man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest Man was the worst. As soon as he set
his Foot on board our Ship, and saw himself safe, he dropt
done stone-dead, not the least Sign of Life could be per-
ceiv'd in him; our Surgeon immediately apply'd proper
Remedies to recover him, and was the only Man in the
Ship that believ'd he was not dead; at length he open'd a
Vein in his Arm, having first chaff'd and rubb'd the Part
so as to warm it as much as possible: Upon this the Blood
which only dropp'd at first, flow'd something freely; in
three Minutes after, the Man open'd his Eyes, and about
a quarter of an Hour after that he spoke, grew better,
and quite well; after the Blood was stopp'd he walk'd
about, told us he was perfectly well, took a Dram of
vol. 11 k
Cordial which the Surgeon gave him, and was what we
call'd, Come to himself; about a quarter of an Hour
after they came running into the Cabin to the Surgeon,
who was bleeding a French Woman, that had fainted;
and to'd him, the Priest was gone stark-mad; it seems
he had begun to revolve the Change of his Circumstance,
and again this put him into an Extasy of Joy, his Spirits
whirl'd about faster than the Vessels could convey them;
the Blood grew hot and feverish, and the Man was as fit
for Bedlam as any Creature that ever was in it; the Surgeon
would not bleed him again in that Condition, but gave
him something to dose and put him to sleep, which after
some Time operated upon him, and he wak'd the next
Morning perfectly compos'd and well.
The younger Priest behav'd with great Command of
his Passion, and was really an Example of a serious well-
govern'd Mind; at his first coming on board the Ship, he
threw himself flat on his Face, prostrating himself in
Thankfulness for his Deliverance, in which I unhappily
and unseasonably disturb'd him, really thinking he had
been in a Swoon; but he spake calmly, thank'd me, told
me he was giving God Thanks for his Deliverance, and
begg'd me to leave him a few Moments, and that, next to
his Maker, he would give me Thanks also.
I was heartily sorry, that I disturb'd him, and not only
left him, but kept others from interrupting him also; he
continued in that Posture about three Minutes, or little
more, after I left him, then came to me, as he had said he
would, and with a great deal of Seriousness and Affection,
but with Tears in his Eyes, thank'd me that had under
God, given him and so many miserable Creatures their
Lives: I told him, I had no Room to move him to thank
God for it, rather than me: But I added, That it was no-
thing but what Reason and Humanity dictated to all Men,
and that we had as much Reason as he to give Thanks to
God, who had bless'd us so far as to make us the Instru-
ments of his Mercy to so many of his Creatures.
After this, the young Priest apply'd himself to his
Country-Folks; labour'd to compose them; perswaded,
entreated, argued, reason'd with them, and did his ut-
most to keep them within the Exercise of their Reason;
and with some he had Success, tho' others were for aTime
out of all Government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to Writing, as perhaps
it may be useful to those into whose Hands it may fall, for
the guiding themselves in all the Extravagances of their
Passions; for if an Excess of Joy can carry Men out to
such a Length beyond the Reach of their Reason, what
will not the Extravagancies of Anger, Rage, and a pro-
vok'd Mind carry us to? and indeed here I saw Reason
for keeping an exceeding Watch over our Passions of
every Kind, as well those of Joy and Satisfaction, as those
of Sorrow and Anger.
We were something disordered by these Extravagan-
cies among our new Guests for the first Day, but when
they had been retir'd,Lodgings provided for them as well
as our Ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most of them did, they were quite another Sort of People
the next Day.
Nothing of good Manners or civil Acknowledgments
for the Kindness shewn them was wanting; the French,
'tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that Way.
The Captain and one of the Priests came to me the next
Day, and desiring to speak with me and my Nephew, the
Commander, began to consult with us what should be
done with them; and first they told us,that as we had saved
their Lives, so all they had was little enough for a Return
to us for that Kindness received. The Captain said, they
had saved some Money and some Things of Value in their
Boats, catch'd hastily out of the Flames, and if we would
accept it, they were ordered to make an Offer of it all to
us; they only desired to be set on Shore somewhere in our
Way, where if possible they might get Passage toFrance.
My Nephew was for accepting their Money at first
Word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards;
but I over-rul'd him in that Part, for I knew what it was
to be set on Shore in a strange Country; and if the Portu-
gal Captain that took me up at Sea had serv'd me so, and
took all I had for my Deliverance, I must have starv'd, or
have been as much a Slave at the Brasils as I had been in
Barbary, the meer being sold to a Mahometan excepted;
and perhaps a Portuguese is not much a better Master than
a Turk, if not in some Cases a much worse.
I therefore told the French Captain that we had taken
them up in their Distress, it was true; but that it was our
Duty to do so as we were Fellow-Creatures, and as we
would desire to be so deliver'd if we were in the like or
any other Extremity; that we had done nothing for them
but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their Case, and they in ours; but that we took
them up to save them, not to plunder them; and it would
be a most barbarous thing to take that little from them
which they saved out of the Fire, and then set them on
Shore and leave them; that this would be first to save them
from Death, and then kill them our selves; save them
from drowning, andabandon them to starving; andthere-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from them:
As to setting them on Shore, I told them indeed that was
an exceeding Difficulty to us, for that the Ship was bound
to the Easl-Indies; and tho' we were driven out of our
Course to the Westward a very great Way, and perhaps
was directed by Heaven on Purpose for their Deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our Voyage
on this particular Account, nor could my Nephew, the
Captain, answer it to the Freighters, with whom he was
under Charter-Party to pursue his Voyage by the Way of
Brasil, and all I knew we could do for them, was to put
our selves in the Way of meeting with other Ships home-
ward bound from the Wesl-Indies, and get them Passage,
if possible, to England or France.
The first Part of the Proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it; but they
were in a very great Consternation, especially the Passen-
gers, at the Notion of being carry'd away to the Easl-
Indies, and they then entreated me, that seeing I was
driven so far to the Westward, before I met with them,
I would at least keep on the same Course to the Banks of
Newfound-Land, where it was probable I mightmeetwith
some Ship or Sloop that they might hire to carry them
back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable Request on their
Part, and therefore I enclin'd to agree to it; for indeed I
consider'd, that to carry this whole Company to the Easl-
Indies, would not only be an intolerable Severity upon the
poor People, but would be ruining our whole Voyage by
devouring all our Provisions; so I thought it no Breach of
Charter-Party, but what an unforeseen Accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say
we were to blame; for the Laws of God and Nature would
have forbid that we should refuse to take up two Boats
full of People in such a distress'd Condition, and the Na-
ture of the Thing as well respecting our selves as the poor
People, oblig'd us to set them on Shore some where or
other for their Deliverance; so I consentedthatwewould
carry them to Newfound-Land, if Wind and Weather
would permit, and if not, that I would carry them to Mar-
tinico in the Wesl-Indies.
The Wind continued fresh Easterly, but the Weather
pretty good, and as the Winds had continued in the
Points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several Opportunities of sending them to France; for we
met several Ships bound to Europe, whereof two were
French from St. Chrislopher's, but they had been so long
beating up against the Wind, that they durst take in no
Passengers for fear of wanting Provisions for the Voyage,
as well for themselves as for those they should take in; so
we were obliged to go on. It was about a Week after this
that we made the Banks of Newfound-Land, where to
shorten my Story, we put all our French People on Board a
Bark, which they hir'd at Sea there, to put them on Shore,
and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
Provision to victual themselveswith. When, I say, all the
French went on Shore, I should remember that the young
Priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East In-
dies, desired to go the Voyage with us, and to be set on
Shore on the Coast of Coromandel, which I readily agreed
to, for I wonderfully lik'd the Man, and had very good
Reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the Sea-
men entered themselves on our Ship, and proved very
useful Fellows.
From hencewedirectedour Courseforthe Wesl-Indies,
steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty Days to-
gether, sometimes little or no Wind at all, when we met
with another Subject for our Humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the Latitude of 2 7 Degrees 5 Minutes North,
and the 19th Day of March 1694-5, when we'spy'd a Sail,
our Course S. E. and by S. We soon perceiv'd it was a
large Vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at
first know what to make of her, till after coming a little
nearer, we found she had lost her Main-top-mast, Fore-
mast and Boltsprit, and presently she fired a Gun as a Sig-
nal of Distress; the Weather was pretty good, Wind at
N. N. W. a fresh Gale, and we soon came to speak with
her.
We found her a Ship of Brislol, bound home from
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the Road at Barba-
does a few Days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible
Hurricane, while the Captain and Chief Mate were both
gone on Shore, so that beside the Terror of the Storm,
they were but in an indifferent Case for good Artists to
bring the Ship home: They had been already nine Weeks
at Sea, and had met with another terrible Storm after the
Hurricane was over, which had blown them quite out of
their Knowledge to the Westward, and in which they lost
their Masts, as above; they told us they expected to have
seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away
again to the South East by a strong Gale of Wind at N. N.
W. the same that blew now, and having no Sails to work
the Ship with but a main Course, and a kind of square
Sail upon a Jury Fore-mast, which they had set up, they
could not lye near the Wind, but were endeavouring to
stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were al-
most starv'd for want of Provisions, besides the Fatigues
they had undergone; their Bread and Flesh was quite
gone, they had not one Ounce left in "the Ship, and had
had none for eleven Days; the only Relief they had, was,
their Water was not all spent, and they had about half a
Barrel of Flower left; they had Sugar enough; some Suc-
cades, or Sweet-meats they had at firs!:, but they were de-
vour'd, and they had seven Casks of Rum.
There was a Youth and his Mother and a Maid-Ser-
vant on Board, who were going Passengers, and thinking
the Ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on Board the
Evening before the Hurricane began, and having no Pro-
visions of their own left, they were in a more deplorable
Condition than the rest, for the Seamen being reduced to
such an extreme Necessity themselves, had no Compas-
sion, we may be sure, for the poor Passengers, and they
were indeed in a Conditionthattheir Misery is veryhard
to describe.
I had, perhaps, not known this Part, if my Curiosity
had not led me, the Weather being fair and the Wind
abated, to go on Board the Ship: The Second Mate who
upon this Occasion commanded the Ship, had been on
Board our Ship, and he told me indeed they had three
Passengers in the great Cabin, that they were in a deplor-
able Condition; nay, says he, I believe they are dead, for I
have heard nothing of them for above two Days, and I
was afraid to en quire after them, said he, for I had nothing
to relieve them with.
We immediately apply'd our selves to give them what
Relief we could spare; and indeed I had so far over-ruled
Things with my Nephew, that I would have victuall'd
them, tho' we had gone away to Virginia, or any Part of
the Coasl: of America, to have supply'd our selves; but
there was no Necessity for that.
But now they were in a new Danger; for they were
afraid of eating too much, eyenof that little we gave them;
the Mate or Commander brought six Men with him in his
Boat, but these poor Wretches look'd like Skeletons, and
were so weak, they could hardly sit to their Oars: The
Mate himself was very ill, and half starv'd; for he declar'd
he had reserv'd nothing from the Men, and went Share
and Share alike with them in every Bit they eat.
I caution'd him to eat sparingly, but set Meat before
him immediately, and he had not eaten three Mouthfuls
before he began to be Sick, and out of Order; so he stopt
a while, and our Surgeon mix'd him up something with
some Broth, which he said would be to him both Food
and Physick; and after he had taken it, he grew better: In
the mean Time, I forgot not the Men; I order'd Victuals
to be given them, and the poor Creatures rather devour'd
than eat it; they were so exceeding hungry, that they
were in a kind ravenous, and had no Command of them-
selves; and two of them eat with so much Greediness,
that they were in Danger of their Lives the next Morn-
ing-
The Sight of these People's Distress was very moving
to me, andbrought to Mind what I had a terrible Prospect
of at my first coming on Shore in the Island, where I had
neither the least Mouthful of Food, or any Prospect of
procuring any; besides the hourly Apprehension I had
of being made the Food of other Creatures: But all the
while the Mate was thus relating to me the miserable
Condition of the Ship's Company, I could not put out of
my Thought the Story he had told me of the three poor
Creatures in the Great Cabin, (viz.) the Mother, her Son,
and the Maid-servant, who he had heard nothing of for
two or three Days, and who he seem'd to confess they
had wholly neglected, their own Extremities being so
great; by which I understood, that they had really given
them no Food at all, and that therefore they must be per-
ish'd, and be all lying dead perhaps on the Floor, or Deck
of the Cabin.
As I therefore kept the Mate, who we then called Cap-
tain, on board with his Men to refresh them, so I also for-
got not the starving Crew that were left on board, but
order'd my own Boat to go on board the Ship, and with
my Mate and twelve Men to carry them a Sack of Bread,
and four or five Pieces of Beef to boil. Our Surgeon
charg'd the Men to cause the Meat to be boil'd while
they stay'd, and to keep Guard in the Cook-Room, to pre-
vent the Men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the
Pot before it was well boil'd, and then to give every Man
but a very little at a Time; and by this Caution he pre-
served the Men,whowouldotherwiseha'kiirdthemselves
with that very Food that was given them on Purpose to
save their Lives.
At the same Time, I order'd the Mate to go into the
Great Cabin, and see what Condition the poor Passengers
were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them, and give
them what Refreshment was proper; and the Surgeon
gave him a large Pitcher with some of the prepar'd Broth
which he had given the Mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfy'd with this, but as I said above, having
a great Mind to see the Scene of Misery, which I knew
the Ship itself would present me with, in a more lively
Manner than I could have it by Report, I took the Cap-
tain of the Ship, as we now call'd him, with me, and went
myself a little after in their Boat.
I found the poor Men on board almost in a Tumult to
get the Victuals out of the Boyler before it was ready: But
my Mate observ'd his Order, and kept a good Guard at
the Cook-Room Door, and the Man he plac'd there, after
using all possible Perswasion to have Patience, kept them
off by Force: However, he caused some Bisket Cakes to be
dipp'd in the Pot, and soften'd with the Liquor of the
Meat, which they call Brews, and gave them every one,
one, to slay their Stomachs, and told them it was for their
own Safety that he was oblig'd to give them but a little at
a Time: But it was all in vain; and had I not come on
Board, and their own Commander and Officers with me,
and with good Words, and some Threats also of giving
them no more, I believe they would have broke into the
Cook-Room by Force, and tore the Meat out of the Fur-
nace : For Words are indeed of very small Force to a hun-
gry Belly: However we pacify'd them, and fed them gra-
dually and cautiously for the firsl : Time, and the next
Time gave them more, and at last fill'd their Bellies, and
the Men did well enough.
But the Misery of the poor Passengers in the Cabin,
was of another Nature, and far beyond the rest; for as first
the Ship's Company had so little for themselves, it was
but too true that they had at first kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven
Days, it might be said, they had really had no Food at all,
and for several Days before very little. The poor Mother,
who as the Men reported, was a Woman of good Sense
and good Breeding, had spar'd all she could get, so affec-
tionately for her Son, that at last she entirely sunk under
it: And when the Mate of our Ship went in, she sat upon
the Floor or Deck, with her Back up against the Sides,
between two Chairs, which were lash'd fast, and her Head
sunk in between her Shoulders, like a Corpse, tho' not
quite dead. My Mate said all he could to revive and en-
courage her, and with a Spoon put some Broth into her
Mouth; she open'd her Lips, and lifted up one Hand,but
could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and
made Signs to him, intimating, that it was too late for her,
but pointed to her Child, as if she would have said, they
should take Care of him.
However, the Mate, who was exceedingly mov'd with
the Sight, endeavour'd to get some of the Broth into her
Mouth; and as he said, got two or three Spoonfuls down,
tho' I question whether he could be sure of it or not: But
it was too late, and she dy'd the same Night.
The Youth who was preserved at the Price of his most
affectionate Mother's Life, was not so far gone, yet he lay
in a Cabin-bed as one stretch'd out, with hardly any Life
left in him; he had a Piece of an old Glove in his Mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however, being young, and
having more Strength than his Mother, the Mate got
something down his Throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, tho' by giving him some time after but two or three
Spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought
it up again.
But the next Care was the poor Maid, she lay all along
upon the Deck hard by her Mistress, and just like one
that had fallen down with an Apoplexy and struggled for
Life: Her Limbs were distorted, one of her Hands was
clasp'd round the Frame of a Chair, and she grip'd it so
hard, that we could not easily make her let go; her other
Arm lay over her Head, and her Feet lay both together
set fast against the Frame of the Cabin Table; in short,
she lay just like one in the last Agonies of Death, and yet
she was alive too.
The poor Creature was not only starv'd with Hunger,
and terrify'd with the Thoughts of Death, but as the Men
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her Mistress,
who she saw dying for two or three Days before, and who
she lov'd most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor Girl, for when
our Surgeon, who was a Man of very great Knowledge
and Experience, had with great Application recover'd
her as to Life; he had her upon his Hand as to her Senses,
for she was little less than distracted for a considerable
Time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these Memorandums must be de-
sir'd to consider, that Visits at Sea are not like a Journey
into the Country, where sometimes People stay a Week
or a Fortnight at a Place. Our Business was to relieve this
distressed Ship's Crew, but not to lie by for them; and
tho' they were willing to steer the same Course with us for
some Days, yet we could carry no Sail to keep Pace with
a Ship that had no Masts; however, as their Captain
begg'd of us to help him to set up a Main-Top-Mast,
and a Kind of a Top-Mast to his Jury Fore-Mast, we did,
as it were lie by him for three or four Days, and then hav-
ing given him five Barrels of Beef, a Barrel of Pork, two
Hogsheads of Bisket, and a Proportion of Peas, Flour,
and what other Things we could spare; and taking three
Casks of Sugar, some Rum, and some Pieces of Eight of
them for Satisfaction, we left them, taking on board with
us, at their own earnest Request, the Priest, the Youth,
and the Maid, and all their Goods.
The young Lad was about seventeen Years of Age, a
pretty, well-bred modest, and sensible Youth, greatly de-
jected with the Loss of his Mother, and as it seems had
lost his Father but a few Months before at Berbadoes. He
begg'd of the Surgeon to speak to me to take him out of
the Ship, for he said the cruel Fellows had murther'd his
Mother; and indeed so they had, that is to say passively<\
for they might ha'spar'd a small Sustenance to the poor
helpless Widow, that might have preserv'd her Life, tho'
it had been but just to keep her alive. But Hunger knows
no Friend, no Relation, no Justice, no Right, and there-
fore is remorseless, and capable of no Compassion.
The Surgeon told him how far we were going, and
how it would carry him away from all his Friends, and put
him perhaps in as bad Circumstances almost as those we
found him in; that is to say, starving in the World: He
said he matter'd not whether he went, if he was but de-
livered from the terrible Crew he was among: That the
Captain (by which he meant me, for he could know no-
thing of my Nephew) had sav'd his Life, and he was sure
would not hurt him; and as for the Maid, he was sure if
she came to herself, she would be very thankful for it, let
us carry them where we would. The Surgeon represented
the Case so affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we
took them both on board with all their Goods, except
eleven Hogsheads of Sugar, which could not be removed
or come at, and as the Youth had a Bill of Lading for them,
I made his Commander sign a Writing, obliging himself
to go as soon as he came to Brislol, to one Mr. Rogers a
Merchant there, to whom the Youth said he was related,
and to deliver a Letter which I wrote to him, and all the
Goods he had belonging to the deceased Widow; which
I suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the
Ship came to Brislol, but was, as is most probable, lost at
Sea, being in so disabled a Condition and so far from any
Land, that I am of Opinion, the first Storm she met with
afterwards, she might founder in the Sea, for she was
leaky, and had Damage in her Hold when we met with
her.
I was now in the Latitude of 19 Deg. 32 Min. and had
hitherto had a tolerable Voyage as to Weather, tho' at
first the Winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no
Body with the little Incidents of Wind, Weather, Cur-
rents, &c. on the rest of our Voyage; but shortning my
Story for the sake of what is to follow, shall observe that
I came to my old Habitation, the Island, on the 10th of
April 1695. It was with no small Difficulty that I found
the Place; for as I came to it, and went from it before, on
the South and East Side of the Island, as coming from the
Brasils, so now coming in between the Main and the Is-
land, and having no Chart for the Coast, nor any Land-
Mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on Shore on
several Islands in the Mouth of the great River Oronoo-
que, but none for my Purpose. Only this I learn'd by my
Coasting the Shore, that I was under one great Mistake
before, viz. that the Continent which I thought I saw,
from the Island I liv'd in, was really no Continent, but a
long Island, or rather a Ridge of Islands, reaching from
one to the other Side of the extended Mouth of that great
River, and that the Savages who came to my Island, were
not properly those which we call Caribbees, but Islanders,
and other Barbarians of the same Kind, who inhabited
something nearer to our Side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of these Islands to no Pur-
pose; some I found were inhabited, and some were not.
On one of them I found some Spaniards, and thought
they had liv'd there, but speaking with them, found they
had a sloop lay in a small Creek hard by, and they came
thither to make Salt, and to catch some Pearl Mussles if
they could, but that they belong'd to the Isle de 'Trinidad,
which lay farther North in the Latitude of i o and 11 De-
grees.
But at last coasting from one Island to another, some-
times with the Ship, sometimes with the French Mans
Shalloup, which we had found a convenient Boat, and
therefore kept her with their very good Will; at length I
came fair on the South Side of my Island, and I presently
knew the very Countenance of the Place; so I brought
the Ship safe to an Anchor, Broadside with the little
Creek where was my old Habitation.
As soon as I saw thePlace, I call'd for Friday, andask'd
him if he knew where he was? He look'd about a little,
and presently clapping his Hands, cry'd; Oyes, O there,
O yes, O there, pointing to our old Habitation, and fell a
dancing and capering like a mad Fellow, and I had much
ado to keep him from jumping into the Sea, to swim
ashore to the Place.
Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find any
Body here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
your Father? The Fellow stood mute as a Stock a good
while, but when I nam'd his Father, the poor affectionate
Creature look'd dejected, and I could see the Tears run
down his Face very plentifully. What is the Matter, Fri-
day, says I? Are you troubled because you may see your
Father? No, no, says he, shaking his Head, no see him
more, no ever more see again; why so, said I Friday, how
do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he long ago die,
long ago; he much old Man. Well, well, says I, Friday,
you don't know; but shall we see any one else then? The
Fellow, it seems, had better Eyes than I, and he points
just to the Hill abovemy old House; and tho' we lay half
a League off, he cries out, we see! we see! yes, we see
much Men there, and there, and there. I look'd, but I
could see no body, no not with a Perspective Glass, which
was, I suppose, because I could not hit the Place, for the
Fellow was right, as I found upon Enquiry the next Day,
and there was five or six Men altogether, stood to look at
the Ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw People, I caus'd
the English Antient to be spread, and fir'd three Guns, to
give them Notice we were Friends, and in about half a
Quarter of an Hour after, we perceiv'd a Smoke rise from
the Side ofthe Creek, so I immediately order'd a Boat out
taking Friday with me, and hanging out a white Flag, or,
Flag of Truce, I went directly on Shore, taking with me
the young Fryer I mention'd, to whom I had told the
whole Story of my living there, and the manner of it, and
every Particular both of my self, and those I left there;
and who was on that Account extremely desirous to go
with me. We had besides about sixteen Men very well
arm'd, if we had found any new Guests there which we
did not know of; but we had no Need of Weapons.
As we went on Shore upon the Tide of Flood, near
high Water, we row'd directly into the Creek, and the
first Man I fix'd my Eye upon, was the Spaniard whose
Life I had sav'd, and who I knew by his Face perfectly
well; as to his Habit I shall describe it afterwards. I or-
der'd no body to go on Shore at first but my self, but there
was no keeping Friday in the Boat; for the affectionate
Creature had spy'd his Father at a Distance, a good Way
off of the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him;
and if they had not let him go on Shore, he would have
jump'd into the Sea. He was no sooner on Shore, but he
flew away to his Father like an Arrow out of a Bow. It
would have made any Man have shed Tears in Spight of
the firmest Resolution, to have seen the first Transports
vol. n 1
of this poor Fellow's Joy when he came to his Father;
how he embrac'd him, kiss'd him, slxok'd his Face, took
him up in his Arms, set him down upon a Tree, and lay-
down by him, then stood and look'd at him, as any one
would look at a strange Picture for a Quarter of an Hour
together; then lye down on the Ground, and stroke his
Legs, and kiss them, and then get up again, and stare at
him; one would ha' thought the Fellow bewitch'd: But it
would ha' made a Dog laugh to see how the next Day his
Passion run out another Way: In the Morning he walk'd
along the Shore, to and again, with his Father several
Hours, always leading him by the Hand, as if he had been
a Lady; and every now and then he would come to fetch
something or other for him to the Boat, either a Lump of
Sugar, or a Dram, a Bisket Cake, or something or other
that was good. In the Afternoon his Frolicks run another
Way; for then he would set the old Man down upon the
Ground, and dance about him, and make a Thousand an-
tick Postures and Gestures; and all the while he did this,
he would be talking to him, and telling him one Story or
another of his Travels, and of what had happen'd to him
Abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial Affec-
tion was to be found in Christians to their Parents, in our
Part of the World, one would be tempted to say, there
would hardly ha' been any Need of the Fifth Command-
ment.
But this is a Digression; I return to my Landing. It
would be endless to take Notice of all the Ceremonies and
Civilities that the Spaniards receiv'd me with. The first
Spaniard, who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose
Life I had sav'd; he came towards the Boat, attended by
one more, carrying a Flag of Truce also; and he did not
only not know me at first, but he had no Thoughts, no
Notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him:
Seignior, said I in Portuguese, Do you not know me? At
which he spoke not a Word; but giving his Musket to the
Man that was with him, threw his Arms abroad, and say-
ing something in Spanish, that I did not perfectly hear,
comes forward, and embrac'd me, telling me he was inex-
cusable, not to know that Face again, that he had once
seen, as of an Angel from Heaven sent to save his Life:
He said Abundance of very handsome Things, as a well
bred Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning to
the Person that attended him, bad him go and call out his
Comerades. He then ask'd me, if I would walk to my old
Habitation, where he would give me Possession of my
own House again, and where I should see there had been
but mean Improvements; so I walk'd along with him;
but alas I could no more find the Place again, than if I had
never been there; for they had planted so many Trees,
and plac'd them in such a Posture, so thick and close to
one another; and in ten Years Time they were grown so
big, that in short the Place was inaccessible, except by
such Windings and blind Ways, as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.
I ask'd them what put them upon all these Fortifica-
tions? He told me, I would say there was Need enough of
it, when they had given me an Account how they had
pass'dtheirTime since their Arriving in the Island, espe-
cially after they had the Misfortune to find that I was
gone: He told me, he could not but have some Satisfac-
tion in my good Fortune, when he heard that I was gone
away in a good Ship,and to my Satisfaction: and that he had
often-times a strong Perswasion, that one Time or other
he should see me again: But nothing that ever befel him in
his Life, he said, was so surprizing and afflicting to him
at first, as the Disappointment he was under when he
came back to the Island, and found I was not there.
As to the three Barbarians (so he call'd them) thatwere
left behind, and of whom he said he had a long Story to
tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves much bet-
ter among the Savages, only that their Number was so
small. And, says he, had they been strong enough, we had
been all long ago in Purgatory; and with that he cross'd
himself on the Breast: But Sir, says he, I hope you will not
be displeas'd, when I shall tell you how forc'd by Neces-
sity we were oblig'd, for our own Preservation, to disarm
them, and make them our Subjects, who would not be
content with being moderately our Masters, but would
be our Murtherers. I answer'd, I was heartily afraid of it
when I left them there; and nothing troubled me at my
parting from the Island, but that they were not come back,
that I might have put them in Possession of every Thing
first, and left the other in a State of Subjection, as they de-
serv'd: But if they had reduc'd them to it, I was very glad,
and should be very far from finding any Fault with it; for
I knew they were a Parcel of refractory, ungovern'd Vil-
lains, and were fit for any Manner of Mischief.
While I was saying this, came the Man whom he had
sent back, and with him eleven Men more: In the Dress
they were in, it was impossible to guess what Nation they
were of: But he made all clear both to them and to me.
First he turn'd to me, and pointing to them, said, These,
Sir, are some of the Gentlemen who owe their Lives to
you; and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who I was; upon which they all came up one
by one, not as if they had been Sailors and ordinary Fel-
lows, and I the like, but really, as if they had been Ambas-
sadors of Noblemen, and I a Monarch or a great Con-
queror; their Behaviour was to the last Degree obliging
and courteous, and yet mix'd with a Manly, Majestick
Gravity, which very well became them; and in short, they
had so much more Manners than I, that I scarce knew
how to receive their Civilities, much less how to return
them in Kind.
The History of their coming to, and Conduct in the
Island, after my going away, is so very remarkable, and
has so many Incidents, which the former Part of my Re-
lation will help to understand, and which will in most of
the Particulars, refer to that Account I have already given,
that I cannot but commit them with great Delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the Story with a Relation in
the first Person, which will put me to the Expence of ten
Thousand said Fs, and said he's, and he told trie's, and I
told hint's, and the like, but I shall collect the Facts His-
torically, as near as I can gather them out of my Memory
from what they related to me, and from what I met with
in my conversing with them and with the Place.
In Order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the Circumstance in which I left
the Island, and in which the Persons were of whom I am
to speak. And first it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent
away Friday's Father and the Spaniard, the two whose
Lives I had rescued from the Savages, I say, I had sent
them away in a large Canoe to the Main, as I then thought
it, to fetch over the Spaniard's Companions who he had
left behind him, in order to save them from the like Cala-
mity that he had been in; and in order to succour them for
the present, and that if possible, we might together find
some Way for our Deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible Appearance
of, or the least Room to hope for my own Deliverance any
more than I had twenty Year before, much less had I any
Fore-knowledge of what afterward happened, I mean of
an English Ship coming on Shore there to fetch me off;
and it could not but be a very great Surprize to them when
they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but to
find three Strangers left on the Spot, possess'd of all that
I had left behind me, which would otherwise have been
their own.
The first Thing, however, which I enquir'd into, that
I might begin where I left off, was of their own Part; and
I desir'd he would give me a particular Account of his
Voyage back to his Countrymen with the Boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
Variety in that Part, for nothing remarkable happen'd to
them on the Way, they having very calm Weather, and a
smooth Sea; for his Countrymen it could not be doubted,
he said, but that they were overjoy'd to see him: (It seems
he was the principal Man among them, the Captain of the
Vessel they had been shipwreck'd in, having been dead
some Time) they were, he said, the more surprized to see
him, because they knew that he was fallen into the Hands
of the Savages, who, they were satisfy'd, would devour
him as they did all the rest of the Prisoners, that when he
told them the Story of his Deliverance, and in what Man-
ner he was furnish'd for carrying them away, it was like a
Dream to them; and their Astonishment, they said, was
something like that of Joseph's Brethren, when he told
them who he was, and told them the Story of his Exalta-
tion in Pharaoh's Court: But when he shewed them the
Arms, the Powder, the Ball, and the Provisions that he
brought them for their Journey or Voyage, they were re-
stor'd to themselves, took a just Share of the Joy of their
Deliverance, and immediately prepar'd to come away
with him.
Their first Business was to get Canoes; and in this they
were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest Part of
it, but to trespass upon their friendly Savages, and to bor-
row two large Canoes, or Periagua's, on Pretence of go-
ing out a Fishing, or for Pleasure.
In these they came away the next Morning; it seems
they wanted no Time to get themselves ready; for they
had no Baggage, neither Clothes or Provisions, or any
Thing in the World, but what they had on them, and a
few Roots to eat, of which they used to make their Bread.
They were in all three Weeks absent, and in that Time,
unluckily for them, I had the Occasion offer'd for my
Escape, as I mention'd in my other Part, and to get off
from the Island, leaving three of the most impudent, har-
den'd, ungovern'd, disagreeable Villains behind me, that
any Man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards
great Grief and Disappointment, you may be sure.
The only just Thing the Rogues did, was, That when
the Spaniards came on Shore, they gave my Letter to
them, and gave them Provisions and other Relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long
Paper of Directions which I had left with them, contain-
ing the particular Methods which I took for managing
every Part of my Life there, the Way how I baked my
Bread, bred up tame Goats, and planted my Corn, how I
cur'd my Grapes, made my Pots, and, in a Word, every
Thing I did, all this being written down, they gave to the
Spaniards, two of whom understand£«g-/*V/& well enough;
nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with
every Thing else, for they agreed very well for some Time;
they gave them an equal Admission into the House, or
Cave, and they began to live very sociably, and the Head
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my Methods, and
Friday s Father together, manag'd all their Affairs; for,
as for the English Men, they did nothing but ramble
about the Island, shoot Parrots, and catch Tortoises, and
when they came Home at Night, the Spaniards provided
their Suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfy'd with this,
would the other but have let them alone, which, however,
they could not find in their Hearts to do long; but, like the
Dog in the Manger, they would not eat themselves, and
would not let others eat neither: The Differences, never-
theless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth
relating; but at last, it broke out into open War, and it be-
gun with all the Rudeness and Insolencethat canbeimag-
in'd, without Reason, without Provocation, contrary to
Nature, and indeed, to common Sense; and tho' itistrue
the first Relation of it came from the Spaniards them-
selves, who I may call the Accusers, yet when I came
to examine the Fellows, they could not deny a Word of
it.
But before I come to the Particulars of this Part, I must
supply a Defect in my former Relation, and this was, that
I forgot to set down among the rest, that just as we were
weighing the Anchor to set Sail, there happen'd a little
Quarrel on board our Ship, which I was afraid once would
have turn'd to a second Mutiny; nor was it appeas'd, till
the Captain rouzing up his Courage, and taking us all to
his Assistance, parted them by Force, and making two of
the most refractory Fellows Prisoners, he laid them in
Irons, and as they had been active in the former Disor-
ders, and let fall some ugly dangerous Words the second
Time, he threaten'd to carry them in Irons to England,
and have them hang'd there for Mutiny, and running
away with the Ship.
This, it seems, tho' the Captain did not intend to do it,
frighted some other Men in the Ship, and some of them
had put it into the Heads of the rest, that the Captain only
gave them good Words for the present, till they should
come to some English Port, and that then they should be
all put into Jayl, and try'd for their Lives.
The Mate got Intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desir'd, that I, who still pass'd
for a great Man among them, should go down with the
Mate, and satisfy the Men, and tell them, that they might
be assur'd, if they behav'd well the rest of the Voyage, all
they had done for the Time past should be pardon'd. So I
went, and after passing my Honour's Word to them, they
appear'd easy; and the more so, when I caused the two
Men who were in Irons, to be released and forgiven.
But this Mutiny had brought us to an Anchor for that
Night, the Wind also falling calm, next Morning we
found, that our two Men who had been laid in Irons, had
stole each of them a Musket, and some other Weapons,
what Powder or Shot they had, we know not; and had
taken the Ship's Pinnace, which was not yet hal'd up, and
ran way with her to their Companions in Roguery on
Shore.
As soon as we found this, I order'd the Long-Boat on
Shore, with twelve Men and the Mate, and away they
went to seek the Rogues, but they could neither findthem,
or any of the rest; for they all fled into the Woods when
they saw the Boat coming on Shore. The Mate was once
resolv'd, in Justice to their Roguery, to have destroy'd
theirPlantations, burnt all their Houshold-StufFand Fur-
niture, and left them to shift without it; but having no
Order, he let it all alone, left every Thing as they found
it, and bringing the Pinnace away, came on board with-
out them.
These two Men made their Number five, but the other
three Villains were so much wickeder than these, that af-
ter they had been 2 or 3 Days together, they turn'd their
two New-Comers out of Doors to shift for themselves, and
would have nothing to do with them, nor could they for a
good while be perswaded to give them any Food; as for
the Spaniards they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on Shore, the Business
began to go forward; the Spaniards would have persuad-
ed the three English Brutes to have taken in their two
Countrymen again, that, as they said, they might be all
one Family; but they would not hear of it: So the two
poor Fellows liv'd by themselves, and finding nothing
but Industry and Application would make them livecom-
fortably, they pitch'd their Tents on the North Shore of
the Island, but a little more to the Wesl, to be out of the
Danger of the Savages, who always landed on the Easl
Parts of the Island.
Here they built them two Huts, one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their Magazines and Stores in, and the
Spaniards having given them some Corn for Seed, and
especially some of the Peas which I had left them, they
dug, and planted, and enclosed, after the Pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well; their first
Crop of Corn was on the Ground; and tho' it was but a
little Bit of Land which they had dug up at first, having
had but a little Time, yet it was enough to relieve them,
and find them with Bread and other Eatables; and one of
the Fellows being the Cook's Mate of the Ship, was very
ready at making Soup, Puddings, and such other Prepar-
ations, as the Rice, and the Milk, and such little Flesh as
they got, furnish'd him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving Posture,
when the three unnatural Rogues, their own Country-
men too, in meer Humour, and to insult them, came and
bully'd them, and told them, the Island was theirs, that
the Governor, meaning me, had given them Possession
of it, and no Body else had any Right to it, and damn 'em,
they should build no Houses upon their Ground, unless
they would pay them Rent for them.
The two Men thought they had jested at firs!:, ask'd
them to come in and sit down, and see what fine Houses
they were that they had built, and tell them what Rent
they demanded, and one of them merrily told them, if
they were Ground-Landlords, he hoped, if they built
Tenements upon their Land, and made Improvements,
they would, according to the Custom of Landlords, grant
them a long Lease, and bid them go fetch a Scrivener to
draw the Writings. One of the three damning and raging
told them, they should see they were not in Jest, and go-
ing to a little Place at a Distance, where the honest Men
had made a Fire to dress their Victuals, he takes a Fire-
brand, and claps it to the Out-side of their Hut, and very
fairly set it on Fire, and it would have been all burnt down
in a few Minutes, if one of the two had not run to the Fel-
low, thrust him away, and trod the Fire out with his
Feet, and that not without some Difficulty too.
The Fellow was in such a Rage at the honest Man's
thrusting him away, that he return'd upon him with a
Pole he had in his Hand, and had not the Man avoided
the Blow very nimbly, and run into the Hut, he had end-
ed his Days at once; his Comrade seeing the Danger they
were both in, run in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their Muskets, and the Man that was
first struck at with the Pole, knock'd the Fellow down,
that begun the Quarrel, with the Stock of his Musket,
and that before the other two could come to help him, and
then seeing the rest come at them, they stood together,
and presenting the other Ends of their Pieces to them,
bad them stand off.
The other had Fire-Arms with them too, but one of the
two honest Men, bolder than his Comrade, and made
desperate by his Danger, told them, if they offer'd to
move Hand or Foot they were dead Men, and boldly
commanded them to lay down their Amrs. They did not
indeed lay down their Arms, but seeing him so resolute,
it brought them to a Parley, and they consented to take
their wounded Man with them, and be gone; and indeed
it seems the Fellow was wounded sufficiently with the
Blow; however, they were much in the wrong, since they
had the Advantage, that they did not disarm them effec-
tually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an Account how
the Rogues had treated them; for the three Villains studi-
ed nothing but Revenge, and every Day gave them some
Intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this Part with an Account of the les-
ser Part of their Rogueries, such as treading down their
Corn, shooting three young Kids, and a She-Goat, which
the poor Men had got to breed up tame for their Store;
and, in a word, plaguing them Night and Day in this
Manner, it forced the two Men to such a Desperation,
that they resolv'd to fight them all three the first Time
they had a fair Opportunity; in Order to this, they re-
solv'd to go to the Castle, as they call'd it, that was my
old Dwelling, where the three Rogues and the Spaniards
all liv'd together, at that Time intending to have a fair Bat-
tle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair Play; so
they got up in the Morning before Day, and came to the
Place, and call'd the English Men by their Names, telling
a Spaniard, that answer'd, that they wanted to speak with
them.
It happen'd, that the Day before two of the Spaniards
having been in the Woods, had seen one of the two Eng-
lish Men, who, for Distinction, I call the Honesl Men,
and he had made a sad Complaint to the Spaniards, of the
barbarous Usage they had met with from their three
Countrymen, and how they had ruin'd their Plantation,
and destroy'd their Corn, that they had labour'd so hard
to bring forward, and kill'd the Milch-Goat and their
three Kids, which was all they had provided for their Sus-
tenance, and that if he and his Friends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be starv-
ed. When the Spaniards came home at Night, and they
were all at Supper, he took the Freedom to reprove the
three English Men, tho' in very gentle and mannerly
Terms, and ask'd them, How they could be so cruel, they
being harmless inoffensive Fellows, and that they were
only putting themselves in a way to subsist by their La-
bour, and that it had cost them a great deal of Pains to
bring things to such Perfection as they had?
One of the English Men return'd very briskly, what
had they to do there? That they came on Shore without
Leave, and they should not Plant or Build upon the Is-
land, it was none of their Ground. Why, says the Spaniard
very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they musl not slarve? The
English Man reply'd like a true rough-hewn Tarpaulin,
they might Starve and be Damn'd, they should not Plant
nor Build. But what must they do then, Seignior, said the
Spaniard? Another of the Brutes return'd, do! D.... m 'em,
they should be Servants, and work for them. But how can
you expect that of them, says the Spaniard, they are not
bought with your Money; you have no Right to make
them Servants. The English Man answer'd, the Island
was theirs, the Governour had given it to them, and no
Man had any thing to do there but themselves; and with
that swore by his Maker, that they would go and burn all
their new Huts, they should build none upon their Land.
Why, Seignior, says the Spaniard, by the same Rule
we must be your Servants too? Ay, says the bold Dog, and
so you shall too, before we have done with you, mixing
two or three Gd Damme's in the proper Intervals of
his Speech; the Spaniard only smil'd at that, and made
him no Answer: However, this little Discourse had heat-
ed them, and starting up, one says to the other, I think it
was he they call'd Will. Atkins, Come Jack, let us go and
have t'other Brush with them; we'll demolish their Castle,
I'll warrant you, they shall plant no Colony in our Do-
minions.
Upon this, they went all Trooping away, with every
Man a Gun, a Pistol, and a Sword, and mutter'd some in-
solent Things among themselves of what they would do
to the Spaniards too, when Opportunity offer'd, but the
Spaniards it seems did not so perfectlyunderstand them,
as to know all the Particulars, only, that in general, they
threatned them hard for taking the two English Mens
Part.
Whether they went, or how they bestow'd their Time
that Evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know; but
it seems they wandred about the Country, Part of the
Night, and then lying down in the Place which I used to
call my Bower, they were weary, and over-slept them-
selves.The Case was this, they had resolv'd to stay till Mid-
night, and so to take the two poor Men when they were
asleep, and as they acknowledg'd afterwards, intended to
set Fire to their Huts while they were in them, and either
burn them in them, or murder them as they came out, and
as Malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange
they should not have been kept waking.
However, as the two Men had also a Design upon
them, as I have said, tho' a much fairer one than that of
Burning and Murthering, it happen'd, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, before
the bloody-minded Rogues came to their Huts.
When they came there and found the Men gone, At-
kins, who it seems was the forwardest Man, call'd out to
his Comrades, ha Jack, here's the Nest, but D....n 'em the
Birds are flown; they mused a while to think what should
be the Occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and
suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them
Notice of it, and with that they shook Hands, and swore
to one another that they would be reveng'd of the Spani-
ards. As soon as they had made this bloody Bargain, they
fell to work with the poor Mens Habitation, they did not
set Fire indeed to any thing, but they pull'd down both
their little Houses, and pull'd them so Limb from Limb,
that they left not the least Stick standing, or scarce any
Sign on the Ground where they stood; they tore all their
little collected Houshold Stuff in Pieces, and threw every
Thing about in such a manner, that the poor Men after-
wards found some of their Things a Mile off of their
Habitation.
When they had done this, they pull'd up all the young
Trees the poor Men had planted, pull'd up an Enclosure
they had made to secure their Cattle and their Corn; and
in a word, sack'd and plunder'd every thing, as com-
pleatly as a Hoord of Tartars would have done.
The two Men were at this Juncture gone to find them
out, and had resolved to fight them wherever they had
been, tho' they were but two to three: So that had they
met, there certainly would have been Blood shed among
them, for they were all very stout resolute Fellows, to give
them their due.
But Providence took more Care to keepthemassunder,
than they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had
dogg'd one another, when the three were gone thither,
the two were here; and afterwards when the two went
back to find them, the three were come to the old Habita-
tion again; we shall see their differing Conduct presently.
When the three came back like furious Creatures flush'd
with the Rage which the Work they had been about had
put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, by way of Scoff and Bravado;
and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if
they had been a Couple of Boys at Play, takes hold of his
Hat, as it was upon his Head, and giving it a Twirl about,
fleering in his Face, says he to him, And you, Seignior,
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same Sauce, if you do not mend
your Manners: The Spaniard, who tho' a quiet civil Man,
was as brave as a Man could be desir'd to be, and withal a
strong well-made Man, look'd steadily at him for a good
while, and then having no Weapon in his Hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one Blow of his Fist knock'd
him down, as an Ox is fell'd with a Pole-Axe; at which
one of the Rogues, insolent as the first, fir'd his Pistol at
theSpaniardimmediately; he miss'd his Body indeed, for
the Bullets went thro' his Hair, but one of them touch'd
the tip of his Ear, and he bled pretty much. The Blood
made the Spaniard believe, he was more hurt than he real-
ly was, and that put him into some Heat, for before, he
acted all in a perfect Calm; but now resolving to go thro'
with his Work, he stoop'd to take the Fellow's Musket
who he had knock'd down, and was just going to shoot
the Man, and had fir'd at him, when the res! of the Spani-
ards being in the Cave came out, and calling to him not
to shoot, they slept in, secur'd the other two, and took
their Arms from them.
When they were thus disarm'd, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their Enemies, as well as their own
Countrymen, they began to cool, and giving the Spani-
ards better Words, would have had their Arms again; but
the Spaniards considering the Feud that was between
them and the other two English Men, and that it would
be the best Method they could take to keep them from
one another, told them, they would do them no harm,
and if they would live peaceably, they would be very
willing to assist and sociate with them, as they did before;
but that they could not think of giving them their Arms
again, while they appear'd so resolv'd to do Mischief with
them to their own Countrymen, and had even threatned
them all, to make them their Servants.
TheRogueswere nowno more capable to hear Reason,
than to act Reason, and being refus'd their Arms, they
went raving away and raging like mad Men, threatning
what they would do, tho' they had no Fire-Arms. But the
Spaniards despising their Threatning, told them they
should take Care how they offer'd any Injury to their
Plantation or Cattle, for if they did, they would shoot
them as they would do ravenous Beasts, wherever they
found them; and if they fell into their Hands alive, they
should certainly be hang'd. However, this was far from
vol. ii m
cooling them, but away they went raging and swearing
like Furies of Hell. As soon as they were gone, came back
the two Men in Passion and Rage enough also, tho' of
another Kind; for having been at their Plantation, and
finding it all demolish'd and destroy'd, as above, it will
easily be suppos'd they had Provocation enough; they
could scarce have Room to tell their Tale, the Spaniards
were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find three Men thus bully nineteen, and re-
ceive no Punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
havingthus disarm'd them, made light of all their Threat-
nings; but the two English Men resolv'd to have their
Remedy against them, what Pain soever it cost to find
them out.
But the Spaniards interpos'd here too, and told them,
that as they had disarm'd them, they could not consent
that they (the Two) should pursue them with Fire-Arms
and perhaps kill them; but said the grave Spaniard, who
was their Governour, we will endeavour to make them do
you Justice if you will leave it to us, for as there is no
doubt but they will come to us again when their Passion
is over, being not able to subsist without our Assistance,
we promise you to make no Peace with them, without
having a full Satisfaction for you; upon this Condition we
hope you will promise to use no Violence with them, other
than in your own Defence.
The two English Men yielded to this very awkardly,
and with great Reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to keep them from Bloodshed, and to make
all easy at last; for said they, we are not so many of us,
here is Room enough for us all, and it is great pity we
should not be all good Friends; at length they did con-
sent, and waited for the Issue of the Thing, living for
some Days with the Spaniards, for their own Habitation
was destroyed.
In about five Days Time the three Vagrants, tir'd with
Wandring,andalmosl:sl:arv'dwithHunger,'havingchief-
ly liv'd on Turtles Eggs all that while, came back to the
Grove, and finding my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was
the Governour, and two more with him walking by the
Sideof the Creek; they came up in a very submissive hum-
ble Manner, and begg'd to be receiv'd again into the Fa-
mily. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them,
they had acted so unnaturally by their Countrymen, and
so very grossly by them (the Spaniards) that they could
not come to any Conclusion without consulting the two
English Men and the rest; but however, they would go to
them and discourse about it, and they should know in
half an Hour. It may be guess'd, that they were very hard
put to it, for it seems, as they were to wait this half Hour
for an Answer, they begg'd they would send them out
some Bread in the mean Time, which he did, and sent
them at the same Time a large Piece of Goats Flesh, and a
broil'd Parrot, which they eat very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.
After half an Hour's Consultation they were call'd in,
and a long Debate had among them, their two Country-
men charging them with the Ruin of all their Labour,
and a Design to murther them; all which they own'd be-
fore, and therefore could not deny now; upon the whole,
the Spaniard adted the Moderator between them, and as
they had oblig'd the two English Men not to hurt the
three while they were naked and unarm'd, so they now
oblig'd the three to go and build their Fellows two Huts,
one of the same, and the other of larger Dimensions, than
they were before; to fence their Ground again where they
had pull'd up the Fences, plant Trees in the Room of
those pull'd up, dig up the Land again for planting Corn,
where they had spoil'd it; and in a Word, to restore every
Thing in the same State as they found it, as near as they
could, for entirely it could not be, the Season for the Corn,
and the Growth of the Trees, and Hedges, not being pos-
sible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this, and as they had Plenty
of Provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole Society began to live pleasantly
and agreeably together, only that these three Fellows
could never be persuaded to work, I mean for themselves,
except nowandthen a little, just as they pleased; however,
the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they would but
live sociably and friendly together, and studyin the whole
the Good of the Plantation, they would be content to
work for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as
they pleas'd; and thus having liv'd pretty well together
for a Month or two, the Spaniards gave them Arms again,
and gave them Liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a Week after they had these Arms,
and went abroad, but the ungrateful Creatures began to
beas insolentand troublesome as before; but however, an
Accident happening presently upon this, which endan-
ger'd the Safety of them all, they were oblig'd to lay by
all private Resentments, and look to the Preservation of
their Lives.
It happen'd one Night, that the Spaniard Governour,
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard, whose Life I had
sav'd, who was now the Captain, or Leader, or Governour
of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the Night, and
could by no Means get any Sleep; he was perfectly well in
Body, as he told me the Story, only found his Thoughts
tumultuous, his Mind run upon Men fighting, and kill-
ing of one another, but was broad awake, and could not
by any Means get any Sleep; in short, he lay a great while,
but growing more and more uneasy, he resolv'd to rise:
As they lay, being so many of them, upon Goats-skins,
laid thick upon such Couches and Pads, as they made
for themselves, not in Hammocks and Ship-Beds, as I did,
who was but one, so they had little to do, when they were
willing to rise, but to get up upon their Feet, and perhaps
put on a Coat, such as it was, and their Pumps, and they
were ready forgoing any Way that their Thoughts guided
them.
Being thus gotten up, he look'd out, but being dark, he
could see little or nothing, and besides the Trees which I
had planted, as in my former Account is described, and
which were now grown tall intercepted his Sight, so that
he could only look up, and see that it was a clear Star-light
Night, and hearing no Noise, he return'd and laid him
down again; but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor
could he compose himself to any Thing like Rest, but his
Thoughts were to the last Degree uneasy, and yet he
knew not for what.
Having made some Noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them wak'd,
and calling, ask'd, who it was that was up? The Govern-
our told him, how it had been with him. Say you so, says
the other Spaniard, such Things are not to be slighted, I
assure you; there is certainly some Mischief working,
says he, near us, and presently he asked him, where are
the English Men? They are all in their Huts, says he, safe
enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept Possession of
the main Apartment, and had made a Place where the
three English Men, since their last Mutiny always quar-
ter'd by themselves, and could not come at the rest. Well,
says the Spaniard, there is something in it, I am persuaded
from my own Experience; I am satisfied our Spirits em-
bodied have a Converse with, and receive Intelligence
from the Spirits unembodied and inhabiting the invisible
World, and this friendly Notice is given for our Advant-
age, if we know how to make Use of it. Come, says he, let
us go out and look abroad, and if we find nothing at all in
it to justify the Trouble, I'll tell you a Story to the Pur-
pose, that shall convince you of the Justice of my propos-
ing it.
In a Word, they went out to go up to the Top of the
Hill, where I us'd togo, but they beingstrongand in good
Company, not alone, as I was, us'd none of my Cautions,
to go up by the Ladder, and then pulling it up after them,
to go up a second Stage to the Top, but were going round
thro' the Grove unconcern'd and unwary, when they
were surpriz'd with seeing a Light, as of Fire, a very little
Way off from them, and hearing the Voices of Men, not
of one, or two, but of a great Number.
In all the Discoveries I had made of the Savages land-
ing on the Island, it was my constant Care to prevent
them making the least Discovery of there being any In-
habitant upon the Place; and when by any Occasion they
came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that they that
got away, were scarce able to give any Account of it, for
we disappear'd as soon as possible, nor did ever any that
had seen me, escape to tell any one else, except it was the
three Savages in our last Encounter, who jump'd into the
Boat, of whom I mention'd, that I was afraid they should
go Home and bring more Help.
Whether it was the Consequence of the Escape of those
Men, that so great a Number came now together, or whe-
ther they came ignorantly and by Accident on their us-
ual bloody Errand, they could not it seems understand;
but whatever it was, it had been their Business, either to
have conceal'd themselves, as not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the Savages have seen that there
were any Inhabitants in the Place, or to have fallen upon
them so effectually, as that not a Man of them should
have escap'd, which could only have been, by getting in
between them and their Boats; but this Presence of Mind
was wanting to them, which was the Ruin of their Tran-
quillity for a great while.
We need not doubt, but that the Governourand the
Man with him, surpriz'd with this Sight, run back imme-
diately, and rais'd their Fellows, giving them an Account
of the imminent Danger they were all in; and they again
as readily took the Alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to slay close within where they were, but that
they must run all out to see how Things stood.
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough, and
they had Opportunity enough for some Hours to view
them by the Light of three Fires they had made at a Dis-
tance from one another; what they were doing they knew
not, and what to do themselves they knew not. For, first,
the Enemy were too many; and secondly, they did not
keep together, but were divided into several Parties, and
were on Shore in several Places.
The Spaniards were in no small Consternation at this
Sight, and as they found that the Fellows ran straggling
all over the Shore, they made no doubt, but first or last,
some of them would chop in upon their Habitation, or
upon some other Place, where they would see the Token
of Inhabitants, and they were in great Perplexity also for
fear of their Flock of Goats, which would have been little
less than starving them, if they should have been de-
stroy'd; so the first Thing they resolv'd upon, was to
dispatch three Men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the Goats
away to the great Valley where the Cave was, and if Need
were, to drive them into the very Cave itself.
Could they have seen the Savages altogether in one
Body, and at any Distance from their Canoes, they re-
solv'd, if they had been an hundred of them, to have
attack'd them; but that could not be obtain'd, for they
were some of them two Miles off" from the other, and, as
it appear'd afterwards, were of two different Nations.
After having mused a great while on the Course they
should take, and beaten their Brains in considering their
present Circumstances, they resolv'd at last, while it was
dark, to send the old Savage, Friday's Father, out as a Spy,
to learn, if possible, something concerning them, what
they came for, and what they intended to do; the old Man
readily undertook it, and stripping himself quite naked,
as most of the Savages were, away he went: After he had
been gone an Hour or two, he brings Word, that he had
been among them undiscover'd, that he found they were
two Parties, and of two several Nations who had War
with one another, and had had a great Battle in their own
Country, and that both Sides having had several Prison-
ers taken in the Fight, they were by meer Chance landed
all in the same Island, for the devouring their Prisoners,
and making merry; but their coming so by Chance to the
same Place had spoil'd all their Mirth; that they were in a
great Rage at one another, and that they were so near,
that he believ'd they would fight again as soon as Day-
light began to appear; but he did not perceive that they
had any Notion of any Body's being on the Island but
themselves. He had hardly made an End of telling his
Story, when they could perceive, by the unusual Noise
they made, that the two little Armies were engag'd in a
bloody Fight.
Friday's Father used all the Arguments he could to per-
suade our People to lie close, and not be seen; he told
them their Safety consisted in it, and that they had no-
thing to do but lie still, and the Savages would kill one
another to their Hands, and then the rest would go away;
and it was so to a Tittle. But it was impossible to prevail,
especiallyupon the Englishmen, their Curiosity was so im-
portunate upon their Prudentials, that they must run out
and see the Battle: However, they used some Caution
too, (viz.) they did not go openly, just by their own
Dwelling, but went farther into the Woods, and plac'd
themselves to Advantage, where they might securely see
them manage the Fight, and, as they thought, not to be
seen by them; but it seems the Savages did see them, as
we shall find hereafter.
The Battle was very fierce, and if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive, that
some of them were Men of great Bravery, of invincible
Spirits, and of great Policy in guiding the Fight. The
Battle, they said, held two Hours, before they could guess
which Party would be beaten; but then that Party which
was nearest our Peoples Habitation began to appear
weakest, and after some Time more, some of them began
to fly; and this put our Men again into a great Consterna-
tion, least any of those that fled should run into the Grove
before their Dwelling, for Shelter, and thereby involun-
tarily discover the Place; and that by Consequence the
Pursuers should do the like in Search for them. Upon
this they resolv'd that they would stand arm'd within the
Wall, and whoever came into the Grove, theyshould sally
out over the Wall and kill them; so that, if possible, not
one should return to give an Account of it; they order'd
also, that it should be done with their Swords, or by
knocking them down with the Stock of the Musket, but
not by shooting them, for fear of the Noise.
As they expected, it fell out; three of the routed Army
fled for Life, and, crossing the Creek, ran directly into
the Place, not in the least knowing whether they went,
but running as into a thick Wood for Shelter; the Scout
they kept to look Abroad, gave Notice of this within,
with this Addition, to our Mens great Satisfaction (viz.)
That the Conquerors had not pursued them, or seen
which Way they were gone; upon this, the SpaniardGo-
vernour, a Man of Humanity, would not suffer them to
kill the three Fugitives, but sending three Men out by
the Top of the Hill, order'd them to go round and come
in behind them, surprize andtake them Prisoners, which
was done; the Residue of the conquer'd People fled to
their Canoes, and got off to Sea; the Victors retir'd, and
made no Pursuit or very little, but drawing themselves
into a Body together, gave two great skreaming Shouts,
which they suppos'd was by way of Triumph, and so the
Fight ended: And the same Day, about three a Clock in
the Afternoon, they also march'd to their Canoes, and
thus the Spaniards had their Island again free to them-
selves, their Fright was over, and they saw no Savages in
several Years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their Den, and viewing the Field of Battle, they found
about two and thirty dead Men upon the Spot; some
were kill'd with great long Arrows, some of which were
found slicking in their Bodies; but most of them were
kill'd with their great wooden Swords, sixteen or seven-
teen of which they found in the Field of Battle, and as
many Bows, with a great many Arrows: These Swords
were strange great unweildy Things, and they must be
very strong Men that used them: Most of those Men
that were kill'd with them, had their Heads mash'd to
Pieces, as we may say, or as we call it in English, their
Brains knock'd out, and several their Arms and Legs
broken; so that 'tis evident they fight with inexpressible
Rage and Fury. We found not one wounded Man that
was not stone dead; for either they stay by their Enemy
till they have quite kill'd him, or they carry all the
wounded Men, that are not quite dead, away with
them.
This Deliverance tam'd our English Men for a great
while; the Sight had fill'd them with Horror, and the
Consequences appear'd terrible to the last Degree, even
to them, if ever they should fall into the Hands of those
Creatures, who would not only kill them as Enemies, but
kill them for Food, as we kill our Cattle. And they pro-
fess'd to me, that the Thoughts of being eaten up like
Beef or Mutton, tho' it was supposed it was not to be till
they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that it
nauseated their very Stomachs, made them sick when
they thought of it, and fill'd their Minds with such un-
usual Terror, that they were not themselves for some
Weeks after.
This, as I said, tam'd even the three English Brutes I
have been speaking of; and for a great while after they
were very tractable, and went about the common Busi-
ness of their whole Society well enough; planted, sow'd,
reap'd, and began to be all naturaliz'd to the Country.
But sometime after this, they fell all into such Measures
which brought them into a great deal of Trouble.
They had taken three Prisoners, as I had observ'd, and
these three being lusty stout young Fellows, they made
them Servants, and taught them to work for them, and as
Slaves they did well enough; but they did not take their
Measures with them as I did by my Man Friday, viz. to
begin with them upon the Principle of having sav'd their
Lives, and then instruct them in the rational Principles
of Life, much less of Religion, civilizing and reducing
them by kind Usage and affectionate Arguings; but as
they gave them their Food every Day, so they gave them
their Work too, and kept them fully employ'd in Drud-
gery enough; but theyfail'd in this, by it, that they never
had them to assist them and fight for them, as I had my
Man Friday, who was as true to me as the very Flesh up-
on my Bones.
But to come to the Family Part, being all now good
Friends, for common Danger, as I said above, had effec-
tually reconcil'd them, they began to consider their gene-
ral Circumstances; and the first Thing that came under
their Consideration was, Whether, seeing the Savages
particularly haunted that Side of the Island, and that
there were more remote and retir'd Parts of it equally
adapted to their Way of Living, and manifestly to their
Advantage, they should not rather remove their Habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper Place for their Safety,
and especially for the Security of their Cattle and Corn?
Upon this, after long Debate, it was concluded, That
they would not remove their Habitation; because, that
some Time or other, they thought they might hear from
their Governor again, meaning me; and if I should send
any one to seek them, I should be to sure direct them to
that Side, where, if they should findthePlacedemolish'd,
they would conclude the Savages had kill'd us all, and we
were gone, and so our Supply would go too.
But as to their Corn and Cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the Valley where my Cave was, where the Land
was as proper for both, and where indeed there was Land
enough: However, upon second Thought, they alter'd
one Part of that Resolution too, and resolv'd only to re-
move Part of their Cattle thither, and plant Part of their
Corn there; and so if one Part was destroy'd, the other
might be sav'd: And one Part of Prudence they used,
which it was very well they did, viz. That they never
trusted those three Savages, which they had Prisoners,
with knowing any Thing of the Plantation they had made
in that Valley, or of any Cattle they had there; much less
of the Cave there, which they kept, in Case of Necessity,
as a safe Retreat, and whither they carry'd also the two
Barrels of Powder, which I had sent them at my coming
away.
But however they resolv'd not to change their Habi-
tation, yet they agreed, that as I had carefully cover'd it
first with a Wall or Fortification, and then with a Grove
of Trees; so, seeing their Safety consisted entirely in their
being conceal'd, of which they were now fully convinc'd,
they set to work to cover and conceal the Place yet more
effectually than before: To this Purpose, as I had planted
Trees, (or rather thrust in Stakes, which in Time all grew
up to be Trees) for some good Distance before the En-
trance into my Apartment, they went on in the same
Manner, and fill'd up the rest of that whole Space of
Ground, from the Trees I had set, quite down to the Side
of the Creek, where, as I said, I landed my Floats, and
even into the very Ouze where the Tide flow'd, not so
much as leaving any Place to land, or any Sign that there
had been any Landing thereabout: These Stakes also,
being of a Wood very forward to grow, as I have noted
formerly, they took Care to have generally very much
larger and taller than those which I had planted; and as
they grew apace, so they planted them so very thick and
close together, that when they had been three or four
Years grown, there was no piercing with the Eye any
considerable Way into the Plantation. And as for that
Part which I had planted, the Trees were grown as thick
as a Man's Thigh; and among them they placed so many
other short ones, and so thick, that, in a Word, it stood
like a Pallisado, a quarter of a Mile thick, and it was next
to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little Army to cut
it all down; for a little Dog could hardly get between the
Trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the
Ground to the right Hand, and to the Left, and round
even to the Top of the Hill; leaving no Way, not so much
as for themselves to come out, but by the Ladder placed
up to the Side of the Hill, and then lifted up, and placed
again from the first Stage up to the Top; which Ladder,
when it was taken down, nothing but what had Wings or
Witchcraft to assist it, could come at them.
This was excellently well contriv'd; nor was it less than
what they afterwards found Occasion for; which serv'd
to convince me, that as human Prudence has the Author-
ity of Providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless, the
Direction of Providence to set it to Work; and would we
listen carefully to the Voice of it, I am fully persuaded we
might prevent many of the Disasters, which our Lives are
now, by our own Negligence, subjected to. But this by the
Way.
I return to the Story. They liv'd two Years after this in
perfect Retirement, and had no more Visits from the
Savages: They had indeed an Alarm given them one
Morning, which put them into a great Consternation;
for some of the Spaniards being out early one Morning
on the West Side, or rather the End of the Island, which
by the Way was that End where I never went, for fear of
being discover'd, they were surpriz'd with seeing above
twenty Canoes of Indians just coming on Shore.
They made the best of their Way Home, in Hurry
enough; and, giving the Alarm to their Comrades, they
kept close all that Day and the next, going out only at
Night, to make Observation: But theyhadthegood Luck
to be mistaken; for, wherever the Savages went, they did
not land at that Time on the Island, but pursued some
other Design.
And now they had another Broil with the three English-
men; one of which, a most turbulent Fellow, being in a
Rage at one of the three Slaves, which I mention'd
they had taken, because the Fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seem'd a little un-
tractable in his shewing him, drew a Hatchet out of a
Frog-Belt, in which he wore it by his Side, and fell upon
the poor Savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One
of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the Fellow
a barbarous Cut with the Hatchet, which he aimed at his
Head, but struck into his Shoulder, so that he thought he
had cut the poor Creature's Arm off, ran to him, and en-
treating him not to murder the poor Man, clapt in be-
tween him and the Savage, to prevent the Mischief.
The Fellow being enrag'd the more at this, struck at
the Spaniard with his Hatchet, and swore he would serve
him as he intended to serve the Savage; which the Spani-
ard perceiving, avoided the Blow; and with a Shovel
which he had in his Hand, (for they were all working in
the Field about their Corn-Land) knock'd the Brute
down: Another of the Englishmen running at the same
Time to help his Comrade, knock'd the Spaniard down;
and then two Spaniards more came in to help their Man,
and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any Fire-Arms, or any other Weapons but
Hatchets and other Tools, except this third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusly Cutlasses, with which hemade
at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them both. This
Fray set the whole Family in an Uproar, and more help
coming in, they took the three Englishmen Prisoners.The
next Question was, What should be done with them, they
had been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so des-
perate, and so idle withal, that they knew not what Course
to take with them; for they were mischievous to the high-
est Degree, and valued not what Hurt they did to any
man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard, who was Governor, told them in so
many Words, That if they had been of his own Country,
hewould have hang'd them; for all Laws and all Govern-
ours were to preserve Society; and those who were dan-
gerous to the Society, ought to be expell'd out of it; but
as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
Kindness of an Englishman that they all ow'd their Pre-
servation and Deliverance, he would use them with all
possibleLenity, and would leavethem to the Judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their Countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said,
they desir'd it might not be left to them; for, sayshe, lam
sure we ought to sentence them to the Gallows; and with
that he gives an Account how Will. Atkins, one of the
three, had proposed to have all the five Englishmen join
together, and murder all the Spaniards when they were in
their Sleep.
When the Spanish Governor heard this, he calls to
William Atkins, How, Seignior Atkins, says he, wouldyou
murder us all ? What have you to say to that? Th at harden-
'd Villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was
true, and G dd m him they would do it still be-
fore they had done with them. Well, but Seignior Atkins,
says the Spaniard, What have we done to you, that you
will kill us? And what would you get by killing us?And
what must we do to prevent you killing us? Musi: we kill
you, or you will kill us ? Why will you put us to the Neces-
sity of this, Seignior Atkins, says the Spaniard very calmly
and smiling?
Seignior Atkins was in such a Rage at the Spaniard's
making a Jest of it, that had he not been held by three
Men, and withal had no Weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have kill'd the Spa-
niard in the Middle of all the Company.
This hair-brain'd Carriage oblig'd them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen and
the Spaniard who sav'd the poor Savage, was of the Opin-
ion, they should hang one of the three for an Example to
the rest, and that, particularly, it should be he that had
twice attempted to commit Murder with his Hatchet;
and indeed there was some Reason to believe he had done
it, for the poor Savage was in such a miserable Condition
with the Wound he had receiv'd, that it was thought he
could not live.
But the Governor Spaniard still said No, it was an Eng-
lishman that had sav'd all their Lives, and he would never
consent to put an Englishman to Death, tho' he had mur-
vol. 11 n
der'dhalfofthem, nay, he said, if he had been kill'd him-
self byan Englishman,and had time left to speak,it should
be, that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the Governor
Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful
Councils are most apt to prevail where they are so earnest-
ly press'd, so they all came into it; but then it was to be
consider'd, what should be done to keep them from do-
ing the Mischief they design'd; for all agreed, Governor
and all, that Means were to be used for preserving the
Society from Danger; after a long Debate it was agreed,
First, That they should be disarm'd, and not permitted
to have either Gun, or Powder, or Shot, or Sword, or any
Weapon, and should be turn'd out of the Society, and left
to live where they would, and how they would, by them-
selves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or Eng-
lish, should converse with them, speak with them, or have
any Thing to do with them; that they should be forbid to
come within a certain Distance of the Place where the
rest dwelt; and that if they offer'd to commit any Dis-
order, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the Corn,
Plantings, Buildings, Fences, or Cattle belonging to the
Society, they should dye without Mercy, and they would
shoot them wherever they could find them.
The Governor, a Man of great Humanity, musing up-
on the Sentence, consider'd a little upon it, and turning
to the two honest Englishmen said, Hold, you must re-
flect, that it will be long e'er they can raise Corn and Cat-
tle of their own, andtheymust not starve: We must there-
fore allow them Provisions, so he caus'd to be added,
That they should have a Proportion of Corn given them
to last them eight Months, and for Seed to sow, by which
Time they might be suppos'd to raise some of their own;
that they should have six Milch-Goats, four He-Goats,
and six Kids given them, as well for present Subsistence,
as for a Store; and that they should have Tools given
them for their Work in the Fields; such as, six Hatchets,
an Axe, a Saw, and the like: But they should have none
of these Tools, or Provisions, unless they would swear
solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any of the
Spaniards with them, or of their Fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismiss'd them the Society, and turn'd
them out to shift for themselves. They went away sullen
and refractory, as neither contented to go away, or to
stay; but, as there was no Remedy, they went, pretend-
ing, to go and choose a Place where they would settle
themselves to plant and live by themselves, and some
Provision[s] were given them, but no Weapons.
About four or five Days after, they came again for
someVictuals,'and gave the Governour an Accountwhere
they had pitch d their Tents, and mark'd themselves out
an Habitation and Plantation; and it was a very con-
venient Place indeed, on the remotest Part of the Island,
N.E. much about the Place where I landed in my first
Voyage, when I was driven out to Sea, the Lord knows
whether, in my Attempt to surround the Island.
Here they built themselves two handsome Huts, and
contriv'd them, in a Manner, like my first Habitation,
being close under the Side of a Hill, having some Trees
growing already on three Sides of it, so that by planting
others it would be very easily cover'd from the Sight, un-
less narrowly search'd for; they desir'dsomedry'd Goats-
skins for Beds and Covering, which were given them;
and upon giving their Words, that they would not dis-
turb the rest, or injure any of their Plantations, they gave
them Hatchets, and what other Tools they could spare,
some Peas, Barley, and Rice, for sowing, and, in a Word,
any thing they wanted, but Arms and Ammunition.
They liv'd in this separate Condition about six Months,
and had gotten in their first Harvest, tho' the Quantity
was but small, the Parcel of Land they had planted being
but little; for indeed, having all their Plantation to form,
they had a great deal of Work upon their Hands; and
when they came to make Boards, and Pots, and such
Things, they were quite out of their Element, and could
make nothing of it; and when the rainy Season came on,
for want of a Cave in the Earth, they could not keep their
Grain dry, and it was in great Danger of spoiling: And
this humbled them much; so they came and begg'd the
Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did, and
in four Days work'd a great Hole in the Side of the Hill
for them, big enough to secure their Corn, and other
Things from the Rain; but it was but a poor Place, at
best, compar'd to mine; and especially as mine was then,
for the Spaniards had greatly enlarg'd it, and made several
new Apartments in it.
About three Quarters of a Year after this Separation, a
new Frolick took these Rogues, which, together with the
former Villany they had committed, brought Mischief
enough upon them, and had very near been the Ruin of
the whole Colony: The three new Sociates began, itseems
to be weary of the laborious Life they led, and that with-
out Hope of bettering their Circumstances; and a Whim
took them, that they would make a Voyage to the Conti-
nent from whence the Savages came, and would try if they
could not seize upon some Prisoners among the Natives
there, and bring them Home, so to make them do the la-
borious Part of their Work for them.
The Project was not so preposterous, if they had gone
no farther; but they did nothing, and propos'd nothing,
but had either Mischief in the Design, or Mischief in the
Event: And if I may give my Opinion, they seem'd to be
under a Blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow a visi-
ble Curse to pursue visible Crimes, how shall we recon-
cile the Events of Things with the Divine Justice? It was
certainly an apparent Vengeance on their Crime of Mu-
tiny and Piracy, that brought them to the State they were
in; and as they shew'd not the least Remorse for the
Crime, but added new Villanies to it, such as, particular-
ly, the Piece of monstrous Cruelty of wounding a poor
Slave, because he did not, or perhaps could not, under-
stand to do what he was directed; and to wound him in
such a Manner, as, no Question, made him a Cripple all
his Life; and in a Place where no Surgeon or Medicine
could be had for his Cure; and what was still worse, the
murderous Intent, or, to do Justice to the Crime, the in-
tentional Murder, for such, to be sure it was, as was after-
wards the form'd Design they all laid, to murder the Spa-
niards in cold Blood, and in their Sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the Story: The
three Fellows comes down to the Spaniards one Morning,
and in very humble Terms desir'd to be admitted to speak
with them: The Spaniards very readily heard what they
had to say, which was this, That they were tir'd of living
in the Manner they did; that they were not handy enough
to make the Necessaries they wanted; and that having no
Help, they found they should be starv'd: But if the Spa-
niards would give them Leave to take one of the Canoes
which they came over in, and give them Arms and Am-
munition, proportion'd for their Defence, they would go
over to the Main, and seek their Fortune, and so deliver
them from the Trouble of supplying them with any other
Provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them, but
yet very honestly represented to them thecertain Destruc-
tion they were running into; told them they had suffer'd
such Hardships upon that very Spot, that they could,
without any Spirit of Prophesy, tell them, that they
would be starv'd, or be murder'd, and bad them consider
of it.
The Men reply'd audaciously, they should be starv'd
if they stay'd here, for they could not work, and would
not work; and they could but be starv'd Abroad, and if
they were murder'd, there was an End of them, they had
no Wives or Children to cry after them; and in short, in-
sisted importunately upon their Demand, declaring, that
they would go, whether they would give them any Arms
or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great Kindness, that if
they were resolv'd to go, they should not go like naked
Men, and be in no Condition to defend themselves; and
that tho' they could ill spare their Fire-Arms, having not
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two
Muskets,a Pistol, andaCutlash, and eachManaHatchet,
which they thought was sufficient for them.
In a Word, they accepted the Offer, and having baked
them Bread enough to serve them a Month, and given
them as much Goats-Flesh as they could eat while it was
sweet, and a great Basket full of dry'd Grapes, a Pot full
of fresh Water, and a young Kid alive to kill, they boldly
set out in a Canoe for a Voyage over the Sea, where it was
at least 40 Miles broad.
The Boat was indeed a large one, and would have very
well carry'd fifteen or twenty Men; and, therefore, was
rather too big for them to manage: But as they had a fair
Breeze, and the Flood-Tide with them, they did well
enough: They had made a Mast of a long Pole, and a Sail
of four large Goat-Skins dry'd, which they had sow'd or
lac'd together; and away they went merrily enough; the
Spaniards call'd after them, Bon Veyajo; and no Man ever
thought of seeing them any more,
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and
the two honest English Men who remain'd behind, how
quietly and comfortably they liv'd now those three tur-
bulent Fellows were gone; as for their ever coming again,
that was the remotest Thing from their Thoughts that
could be imagin'd; when behold, after two and twenty
Days Absence, one of the EnglishMen being abroad upon
his Planting-Work, sees three strange Men coming to-
wards him at a Distance, with Guns upon their Shoulders.
Away runs the English Man, as if he was bewitch'd,
comes frighted and amaz'd to the Governour Spaniard,
and tells him they were all undone, for there were Stran-
gers landed upon the Island, he could not tell who: The
Spaniard, pausing a while, says to him, How do you
mean, you cannot tell who? They are the Savages to be
sure. No, no, says the English Man, they are Men in Clo-
aths with Arms: Nay, then, says the Spaniard, Why are
you concern'd? If they are not Savages, they must be
Friends, for there is no Christian Nation upon Earth but
will do us Good rather than Harm.
While they were debating thus, comes the three Eng-
lish Men, and standing without the Wood, which was
new planted, hallo'd to them; they presently knew their
Voices, and so all the Wonder of that kind ceas'd. But
now the Admiration was turn'd upon another Question,
(viz.) what could be the Matter, and what made them
come back again?
It was not long before they brought the Men in, and
enquiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing, they gave them a full Account of their Voyage in a
few Words, (viz.) That they reach'd the Land in two
Days, or something less, but finding the People alarm'd
at their coming, and preparing with Bows and Arrows to
fight them, they durst not go on Shore, but sail'd on to the
Northward six or seven Hours, till they came to a great
Opening, by which they perceiv'd, that the Land they
saw from our Island was not the Main, but an Island;
that entring that Opening of the Sea, they saw another
Islandon the Right-Hand North, and several more West;
and being resolv'd to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the Islands which lay West, and went boldly on
Shore; that they found the People very courteous and
friendly to them, and that they gave them several Roots
and some dry'd Fish, and appear'd very sociable; and the
Women, as well as the Men, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to eat, and
brought it to them a great Way upon their Heads.
They continu'd her e four Days, andenquir'd,aswellas
they could of them by Signs, what Nations were this Way
and that Way; and were told of several fierce and terri-
blePeoplethatliv'dalmost every Way, who, as theymade
Signs to them, used to eat Men. But as for themselves,
they said, that they never eat Men or Women, except
only such as they took in the Wars, and then they own'd
that they made a great Feast, and eat their Prisoners.
The English Men enquir'd when they had a Feast of
that Kind, and they told him about two Moons ago, point-
ing to the Moon, and then to two Fingers; and that their
great King had two hundred Prisoners now, which he
had taken in his War; and they werefeeding them to make
them fat for the next Feast. The English Men seem'd
mightydesiroustosee those Prisoners, but the other mis-
taking them, thought they were desirous to have some of
them to carry awayfortheir owneating. So they beckon'd
to them, pointing to the setting of the Sun, and then to
the rising, which was to signify, that the next Morning at
Sun-rising they would bring some for them; and accord-
ingly the next Morning they brought down five Wo-
men and eleven Men, and gave them to the English Men,
to carry with them on their Voyage, just as we would
bring so many Cows and Oxen down to a Sea-Port
Town, to victual a Ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these Fellows were at
Home, their Stomachs turn'd at this Sight, and they did
not know what to do; to refuse the Prisoners, would have
been the highest Affront to the savage Gentry that offer'd
them; and what to do with them they knew not; however,
upon some Debates, they resolv'd to accept of them, and
in Return they gave the Savages that brought them one
of their Hatchets, an old Key, a Knife, and six or seven of
their Bullets, which, tho' they did not understand, they
seem'd extremely pleas'd with: And then tying the poor
Creatures Hands behind them, they (the People) dragg'd
the poor Prisoners into the Boat for our Men.
The English Men were oblig'd to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble Pre-
sent would certainly have expected that they should have
gone to work with them, have kill'd two or three of them
the next Morning, and perhaps have invited the Donors
to Dinner.
But having taken their Leave with all the Respects and
Thanks that could well pass between People, where on
either Side they understood notone Word they could say,
they put off with their Boat, and came back towards the
first Island, where, when they arriv'd, they set eight of
their Prisoners at Liberty, there being too many of them
for their Occasion.
In their Voyage, they endeavour'd to have some Com-
munication with their Prisoners, but it was impossible to
make them understand any Thing; nothing they could
say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was look'd
upon as going about to murder them. They first of all un-
bound them, but the poor Creatures skream'd at that,
especially the Women, as if they had just felt the Knife at
their Throats; for they immediately concluded they were
unbound on purpose to be kill'd.
If they gave them any Thing to eat, it was the same
Thing; then they concluded it was for fear they should
sink in Flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they
look'd at one of them more particularly, the Party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was fat-
test and fittest to kill. Nay, after they had brought them
quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them
well, still they expected every Day to make a Dinner or
a Supper for their new Masters.
When the three Wanderers had given this unaccount-
able History, or Journal of their Voyage, the Spaniard
ask'd them, Where their new Family was? and being
told that they had brought them on Shore, and put them
into one of their Huts, and were come up to beg some
Victuals for them; they (the Spaniards) and the other two
English Men, that is to say, the whole Colony, resolv'd to
go all down to the Place and see them, and did so, and
Friday's Father with them.
When they came into the Hut, there they sate all bound;
for when they had brought them on Shore, they bound
their Hands that they might not take the Boat and make
their Escape. There, I say, they sate, all of them £lark na-
ked: FirsJ, There were three Men, lusty comely Fellows,
well shap'd, strait and fair Limbs, about thirty to thirty
five Years of Age; and five Women, whereof two might
be from thirty to forty, two more not above four or five
and twenty, and the fifth, a tall comely Maiden about six-
teen or seventeen: The Women were well favour'd agree-
able Persons, both in Shape and Features, only tawny,
and two of them, had they been perfect White, would
have pass'd for very handsome Women even in London
itself, having pleasant agreeable Countenances, and of a
very modes!: Behaviour, especially when they came after-
wards to becloath'd,anddress'd,as they call'd it,tho' the
Dress was very indifferent it must be confess'd; of which
hereafter.
The Sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just Charac-
ter) Men of the best Behaviour, of the mos! calm, sedate
Tempers, and perfect Good-humour thatever I met with,
and in particular, of the most Modesty, as will presently
appear: I say, the Sight was very uncouth, to see two
naked Men and five naked Women, all together bound,
and in the most miserable Circumstances that Human
Nature could be suppos'd to be, (viz.) to be expecting
every Moment to be dragg'd out, and have their Brains
knock'd out, and then to be eaten up like a Calf that is
kill'd for a Dainty.
The first Thing they did, was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's Father, to go in and see first if he knew any of
them, and then if he understood any of their Speech: As
soon as the old Man came in, he look'd seriously at them,
but knew none of them; neither could any of them under-
stand a Word he said, or a Sign he could make, except one
of the Women.
However, this was enough to answer the End, which
was to satisfy them, that the Men into whose Hands they
were fallen, were Christians; that they abhorr'd eating of
Men or Women, and that they might be sure they would
not be kill'd: As soon as they were assur'd of this, they
discover'd such Joy, and by such aukward, and several
Ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several Nations.
The Woman, who was their Interpreter, was bid in the
next Place to ask them, if they were willing to be Servants,
and to work for the Men who had brought them away, to
save their Lives; at which they all fell a Dancing; and pre-
sently one fell to taking up this, and another that, any
Thing that lay next, to carry on their Shoulders, to inti-
mate that they were willing to work.
The Governor, who found, that the having Women
among them would presently be attended with some In-
convenience, and might occasion some Strife, and per-
haps Blood; ask'd the three Men, what they intended to
do with these Women, and how they intended to use
them; whether as Servants, or as Women? One of the
Englishmen answer'd very boldly and readily, That they
would use them as both. To which the Governor said, I
am not going to restrain you from it, you are your own
Masters as to that: But this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing Disorders and Quarrels among you; and I desire it
of you, for that Reasononly, viz. Thatyou will all engage,
that if any of you take any of these Women, as a Woman
or Wife, that he shall take but one; and that having taken
one, none else should touch her; for tho' we cannot marry
any of you, yet 'tis but reasonable, that while you stay
here, the Woman any of you takes, should be maintain'd
by the Man that takes her, and should be his Wife; I
mean, says he, while he continues here, and that none
else shall have any Thin g to do with her: All this appear'd
so just, that every one agreed to it without any Difficulty.
Then the Englishmen ask'd the Spaniards, if they de-
sign'd to take any of them? But every one of them an-
swer'd, NO: Some of them said, they had Wives in Spain,
and the others did not like Women that were not Chris-
tians; and all together declar'd, that they would not touch
one of them; which was an Instance of such Virtue, as I
have not met with in all my Travels. On the other Hand,
to be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a
Wife, that is to say, a temporary Wife; and so they set up
a new Form of Living; for the Spaniards and Friday's Fa-
ther liv'd in my old Habitation, which they had enlarg'd
exceedingly within. The three Servants which were taken
in the late Battle of the Savages, liv'd with them; and
these carry'd on the main Part of the Colony, supplying
all the rest with Food, and assisting them in any Thing as
they could, or as they found Necessity requir'd.
But the Wonder of this Story was, how five such re-
fractory ill match'd Fellows should agree about these
Women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the
same Woman, especially seeing two or three of them were
without Comparison, more agreeable than the other: But
they took a good Way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five Women by them-
selves in one of their Huts, and they went all into the
other Hut, and drew Lots among them, who should chuse
first.
He that drew to chuse first, went away by himself to
the Hutwhere the poor naked Creatures were, and fetch'd
out her he chose; and it was worth observing, thathethat
chose first took her that was reckon'd the homeliest, and
the oldest of the five, which made Mirth enough among
the rest; and even the Spaniards laugh'd at it: But the
Fellow consider'd better than any of them, that it was
Application and Business that they were to expect As-
sistance in, as much as any Thing else; and she prov'd
the best Wife of all the Parcel.
When the poor Women saw themselves set in a Row
thus, and fetch'd out one by one, the Terrors of their Con-
dition return'd upon them again, and they firmly believ'd
that they were now a going to be devour'd; accordingly,
when the English Sailor came in and fetch'd out one of
them; the rest set up a most lamentable Cry, and hung
about her, and took their Leave of her with such Agonies
and such Affection, as would have griev'd the hardest
Heart in the World; nor was it possible for the English-
men to satisfy them, that they were not to be immediate-
ly murder'd, 'till they fetch'd the old Man, Friday's Fa-
ther, who immediately let them know that the five Men,
who had fetch'd them out one by one, had chosen them
for their Wives.
When they had done, and the Fright the Women were
in was a little over, the Men went to Work, and the Spa-
niards czme andhelp'd them; andina few Hours they had
built them every one a new Hut or Tent for their Lodg-
ing apart; for those they had already, were crowded with
their Tools, Houshold-Stuff, and Provision. The three
wicked Ones had pitch'd farthest off, and the two honest
Ones nearer, but both on the North Shore of the Island,
so that they continu'd separate as before: And thus my
Island was peopled in three Places; and, as I might say,
three Towns were begun to be planted.
And here 'tis very well worth observing, That as it of-
ten happens in the World (what the wise Ends of God's
Providence are in such a Disposition of Things, I cannot
say) the two honest Fellows had the two worst Wives, and
the three Reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging,
that were fit for nothing, and neither seem'd born to do
themselves Good, or any one else, had three clever, dili-
gent, careful, and ingenious Wives; not that the two first
wereill Wives, as to their Temper or Humour; for all the
five were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected Crea-
tures, rather like Slaves than Wives; but my Meaning is,
they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.
Another Observation I must make, to the Honour of a
diligent Application on one Hand, and to the Disgrace of
aslothful, negligent, idleTemper,on the other, that when
I came to the Place, and view'd the several Improvements
Plantings, and Managementof the several little Colonies,
the two Men had so far out-gone the three, that there was
no Comparison. They had indeed both of them as much
Ground laid out for Corn as they wanted; and the Reason
was, because, accordingto my Rule, Nature dictated,that
it was to no Purpose to sow more Corn than they wanted,
but the Difference of the Cultivation, of the Planting, of
the Fences, and indeed of every Thing else was easy to be
seen at first View.
The two Men had innumerable young Trees planted
about their Huts, that when you came to the Place, no-
thing was to be seen but a Wood, and tho' they had twice
had their Plantation demolish'd, once by their own Coun-
trymen, and once by the Enemy, as shall be shewn in its
Place; yet they had restor'd all again, and every Thing
was thriving and flour ishing about them; they had Grapes
planted in Order, and manag'd like a Vineyard, tho' they
hadthemselvesneverseenanyThingofthat Kind; and by
their good orderingtheirVines,theirGrapeswereas good
again as any of the others. They had also found them-
selves out a Retreat in the thickest Part of the Woods,
where, though there was not a natural Cave, as I had
found, yet they made one with incessant Labour of their
Hands, and where when the Mischief which follow'd
happen'd, they secur'd their Wives and Children, so as
they could never be found; they having by sticking in-
numerableStakesandPolesof the Wood, which, as I said,
grew so easily, made the Wood unpassable, except in
some Places, where they climb'd up to get over the out-
side Part, and then went on by Ways of their ownleaving.
As to the three Reprobates, as I justly call them, tho'
they were much civiliz'd by their new Settlement, com-
par'd to what they were before, and were not so quarrel-
som, having not the same Opportunity; yet one of the
certain Companions of a profligate Mind never left them,
and that was their Idleness. It is true, they planted Corn,
and made Fences; but Solomon's Words were never bet-
ter verified than in them. I went by the Vineyard of the Sloth-
ful, and it was all over-grown with 'Thorns; for when the
Spaniards came to view their Crop, they could not see it
in some Places for Weeds; The Hedge had several Gaps
in it, where the wild Goats had gotten in, and eaten up the
Corn; perhaps, here and there, a dead Bush was cramm'd
in, to stop them out for the Present, but it was only shut-
ting the Stable Door after the Steed was stoln. Whereas,
when they look'd on the Colony of the other two, there
was the very Face of Industry and Success upon all they
did; there was not a Weed to be seen in all their Corn, or
a Gap in any of their Hedges: And they on the other
Hand verified Solomon's Words in another Place, That
the diligent Hand makes rich; for every Thing grew and
thriv'd, and they had Plenty within and without; they
had more tame Cattle than the other, more Utensils and
Necessaries within Doors, and yet more Pleasure and
Diversion too.
It is true, the Wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly withinDoors,andhavinglearn'dthe£«f/z'.si> Ways
of Dressing and Cooking from one of the other English
Men, who, as I said, was Cook's-mate on board the Ship,
they dress'd their Husbands Victuals very nicely and
well; whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it; but then the Husband, who, as I say, had been
Cook's-mate, did it himself; but as for the Husbands of
the three Wives, they loyter'd about, fetch'd Turtles
Eggs, and caught Fish, and Birds, in a Word, any thing
but Labour, and they far'd accordingly. The Diligent
liv'd well and comfortably, and the Slothful liv'd hard
and beggarly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it is
all over the World.
But now I come to a Scene, different from all that had
happen'd before, either to them, or to me; and the Origi-
nal of the Story was this.
Early one Morning there came on Shore five or six
Canoes of Indians,or Savages, call them which you please;
and there is no room to doubt that they came upon the old
Errand of feeding upon their Slaves: But that Part was
now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our Men too,that
they did not concern themselves about it, as I did; but
having beenmadesensible by their Experience, that their
only Business was to lye concealed, and that if they were
vol. 11 o
not seen by any of the Savages, they would go off again
quietly when their Business was done, having as yet not
the least Notion of there being any Inhabitants in the Is-
land; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had
nothing to do but to give Notice to all the three Planta-
tions, to keep within Doors, and not shew themselves,
only placing a Scout in a proper Place, to give Notice
when the Boats went to Sea again.
This was without doubt very right; but aDisaster spoil'd
all these Measures, and made it known among the Sav-
ages, that there were Inhabitants there, which was in the
End the Desolation of almost the whole Colony; after the
Canoes with the Savages were gone off, the Spaniards
peep'dabroadagain, and some of them had the Curiosity
to go to the Place where they had been, to see what they
had been doing: Here, to their great Surprize, they found
three Savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
Ground; it was suppos'd, they had either been so gorg'd
with their inhuman Feast, that, like Beasts, they were
asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or they
were wander'd into the Woods, and did not come back in
time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surpriz'd at this Sight,
and perfectly at a Loss what to do; the Spaniard Govern-
our, as it happen'd, was with them, and his Advice was
ask'd, but he profess'd he knew not what to do; as for
Slaves, they had enough already, and as to killing them,
they were none of them inclin'd to that; the Spaniard
Governourtoldme,theycouldnotthinkofshedding inno-
cent Blood, for as to them, the poor Creatures had done
them no Wrong, invaded none of their Property, and
they thought they had no just Quarrel against them, to
take away their Lives.
Andhere I must, in Justice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let the Accounts of Spanish Cruelty in Mexico and
Peru, be what they will, I never met with seventeen Men of
any Nation whatsoever, in any foreign Country, who
were so universally Modest, Temperate, Virtuous, so ve-
ry Good-humour'd, and so Courteous as these Spaniards;
and as to Cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very Na-
ture, no Inhumanity, no Barbarity, no outragious Pas-
sions, andyet all of them Men of great Courage and Spirit.
Their Temper and Calmness had appear'd in their
bearingtheunsufferableUsageofthethree£^/Wi6 Men;
andtheir Justiceand Humanity appear'd now in the Case
of the Savages, as above. After some Consultation, they
resolv'd upon this, that they would lie still a while longer,
'till, if possible, these three Men might be gone; but then
theGovernour Spaniard recollected, thatthethreeSavages
had no Boat, and that if they were left to rove about the
Island, they would certainly discover that there were In-
habitants in it, and so they should be undone that Way.
Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the
Fellows fast asleep still, so they resolv'd to waken them,
and take them Prisoners, and they did so; the poor Fel-
lows were strangely frighted when they were seiz'd upon
and bound, and afraid, like the Women, that they should
be murder'd and eaten; for it seems those People think
all the World does as they do, eating Mens Flesh; but
they were soon made easy as to that, and away they car-
ry'd them.
It was very happy to them that they did not carry them
Home to their Castle, I mean to my Palace under the
Hill; but they carry'd them first to the Bower, where was
the chief of their Country-work, such as the keeping
the Goats, the planting the Corn, &c. and afterwards,
they carry'd them to the Habitation of the two English
Men.
Here they were set to work, tho' it was not much they
had for them to do; and whether it was by Negligence in
guarding them, or that they thought the Fellows could
not mend themselves, I know not, but one of them run
away, and taking into the Woods, they could never hear
of him more.
They had good Reason to believe he got Home again
soon after, in some other Boats or Canoes of Savages,who
came on Shore three or four Weeks afterwards, and who,
carrying on their Revels as usual, went off again in two
Days time: This Thought terrify'dthem exceedingly; for
they concluded, and that not without good Cause indeed,
that if this Fellow came safe Home among his Comrades,
he would certainly give them an Account, that there were
People in the Island, as also how few and weak they were;
for this Savage, as I observ'd before, had never been told,
and it was very happy he had not, how many they were,
or where they liv'd; nor had he ever seen or heard the
Fire of any of their Guns, much less had they shewn him
any of their other retir'd Places; such as the Cave in the
Valley, or the new Retreat which the two English Men
had made, and the like.
The firsl: Testimony they had that this Fellow had giv-
en Intelligence of them, was, that about two Months af-
ter this, six Canoes of Savages, with about seven, or eight,
or ten Men in a Canoe, came rowing along the North
Side of the Island, where they never used to come before,
and landed about an Hour after Sunrise, at a convenient
Place, about a Mile from the Habitation of the two Eng-
lishmen, where this escap'd Man had been kept: As the
Spaniard Governor said, had they been all there, the Da-
mage would not have been so much, for not a Man of
them would have escap'd; but the Case differ'd now very
much, for two Men to fifty was too much odds: The two
Men had the happiness to discover them about a League
off, so that it was above an Hour before they landed, and
as they landed a Mile from their Huts, it was some time
before they could come at them: Now having great Rea-
son to believe that they were betray'd, the first Thing
they did, was to bind the two Slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three Men, who they brought with the
Women, who it seems prov'd very faithful to them, to
lead them with their two Wives, and whatever they could
carry away with them, to their retir'd Place in the Woods,
which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two
Fellows Hand and Foot 'till they heard farther.
In the next Place, seeing the Savages were all come on
Shore, and that they bent their Course directly that Way,
they open'd the Fences where their Milch-Goats were
kept, and drove them all out, leaving their Goats to strag-
gle into the Woods whither they pleas'd, that the Savages
might think they were all bred wild; but the Rogue who
came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them
an Account of it all; for they went directly to the Place.
When the two poor frighted Men had secur'd their
Wives and Goods, they sent the other Slave they had of
the three, who came with the Women, and who was at
their Place by Accident, away to the Spaniards, with all
Speed, to give them the Alarm, and desire speedy Help;
and in the mean Time they took their Arms, and what Am-
munition they had, and retreated towards the Place in the
Wood, where their Wives were sent, keeping at a Dis-
tance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which Way
the Savages took.
They had not gone far, but that, from a rising Ground,
they could see the little Army of their Enemies come on
directly to their Habitation, and in a Moment more, could
see all their Huts and Houshold-Stuff flaming up togeth-
er, to their great Grief and Mortification; for they had a
very great Loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some
Time. They kept their Station for a while, 'till they found
the Savages, like wild Beasts, spread themselves all over
the Place, rummaging every Way, and every Place they
could think of, in Search for Prey, and in particular for
the People, of whom it now plainly appear'd they had In-
telligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because as it was likely some
of the wild People might come that Way, so they might
come too many together, thought it proper to make an-
other Retreat about half a Mile farther, believing, as it
afterwards happen'd, that the farther they stroll'd, the
fewer would be together.
The next Halt was at the Entrance into a very thick
grown Part of the Woods, and where an old Trunk of a
Tree stood, which was hollow and vastly large; and in
this Tree they both took their Standing, resolving to see
there what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the Savages
appear'dxunning directly that Way, asiftheyhadalready
had Notice where they stood, and were coming up to at-
tack them; and a little Way farther, they spy'dthree more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, all com-
ing the same Way; besides which, they saw sevenor eight
more at a Distance, running another Way; for in a Word,
they ran every Way like Sportsmen beating for their
Game.
The poor Men were now in great Perplexity, whether
they should stand and keep their Posture, or fly: But af-
ter a very short Debate with themselves, they consider'd,
that if the Savages rang'd the Country thus before Help
came, they might perhaps find out their Retreat in the
Woods, then all would be lost; so they resolv'd to stand
them there: And if they were too many to deal with, then
they would get up to the Top of the Tree, from whence
they doubted not to defend themselves, Fire excepted, as
long as their Ammunition lasted, tho' all the Savages that
were landed, which was near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolv'd upon this, they next consider'd whe-
ther they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three,
and so take the middle Party, by which the two and the
five that follow'd would be separated; and they resolv'd
to let the two first pass by, unless they should spy them in
the Tree, and come to attack them. The two first Savages
also confirm'd them in this Regulation, by turning a little
from them towards another Part of the Wood; but the
three, and the five after them, came forwards directly to
the Tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come sostrait towards them, they resolv'd
to take them in a Line, as they came; and as they resolv'd
to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first Shot might hit
them all three, to which Purpose, the Man who was to
fire, put three or four small Bullets into his Piece, and
having a fair Loop-hole, as it were, from a broken Hole
in the Tree, he took a sure Aim, without being seen, wait-
ing till they were within about thirty Yards of the Tree,
so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the Savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the Run-
away Savage that had escap'd from them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolv'd that, if possible, he
should not escape, tho' they should both fire; so the other
stood ready with his Peice, that if he did not drop at the
first Shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a Marksman to miss his
Aim; for as the Savages kept near one another, a little be-
hind in a Line, in a Word, he fir'd, and hit two of them di-
rectly: The foremost was kill'd outright, being shot in the
Head: The second, which was the Run-away Indian, was
shot thro' the Body, and fell, but was not quite dead:And
the third had a little Scratch in the Shoulder, perhaps by
the same Ball that went thro' the Body of the second, and
being dreadfully frighted, tho' not much hurt, sate down
upon the Ground, skreaming and yelling in a hideous
manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with the
Noise than sensible of the Danger, stood still at first; for
the Woods made the sound a thousand Times bigger
than it really was; the Echo's rattling from one Side to
another, and the Fowls rising from all Parts, skreaming,
and making, every Sort, a several Kind of Noise, accord-
ing to their Kind, just as it was when I fir'd the first Gun
that perhaps was ever shot off in that Place since it was an
Island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing
what the Matter was, came on unconcern'd, 'till they
came to the Place where their Companions lay in a Con-
dition miserable enough: And here the poor ignorant
Creatures, not sensible that they were within Reach of
the same Mischief, stood all of a Huddle over the wound-
ed Man, talking, and, as may be suppos'd, enquiring of
him, how he came to be hurt; and who, 'tis very rational to
believe, told them, that a Flash of Fire first, and immedi-
ately after that, Thunderfrom their Gods,had kill'dthose
two and wounded him: This, I say, is rational; for nothing
is more certain than that, as they saw no Man near them,
so they had never heard a Gun in all their Lives, or so
much as heard of a Gun; neither knew they any Thing of
killing or wounding, at a Distance, with Fire and Bullets;
if they had, one might reasonably believe, they would
not have stood so unconcern'd, in viewing the Fate of
their Fellows, without some Apprehension of their
own.
Our two Men, tho' as they confess'd to me, it griev'd
them to be oblig'd to kill so many poor Creatures, who at
the same Time had no Notion of their Danger; yet having
them all thus in their Power, and the first having loaded
his Piece again, resolv'd to let fly both together among
them; and singling out, by Agreement, which to aim at,
they shot together, and kill'd or very much wounded
four of them; the fifth frighted even to Death, tho' not
hurt, fell with the rest: so that our Men seeing them all
fall together, thought they had kill'd them all.
The Belief that the Savages were all kill'd, made our
two Men come boldly out from the Tree before they had
charg'd their Guns again, which was a wrong Step; and
they were under some Surprize when they came to the
Place, and found no less than four of the Men alive, and
of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: This ob-
lig'd them to fall upon them with the Stocksoftheir Mus-
kets; and first they made sure of the Run-away Savage,
that had been the Cause of all the Mischief, and of an-
other that was hurt in his Knee, and put them out of their
Pain; then the Man that was not hurt at all, came and
kneel'd down to them, with his two Hands held up, and
made piteous Moans to them by Gestures and Signs, for
his Life; but could not say one Word to them that they
could understand.
However, they sign'd to him to sit down at the Foot of
a Tree thereby; and one of the English Men, with a Piece
of Rope-Twine which he had, by great Chance, in his
Pocket, ty'd his two Feetfast together, and his two Hands
behind him, and there they left him; and, with what Speed
they could, made after the other two, which were gone
before; fearing they, oranymoreof them, should find the
Way to their cover'd Place in the Woods, where their
Wives, and the few Goods they had left, lay. They came
once in Sight of the two Men, but it was at a great Dis-
tance; however, they had the Satisfaction to see them
cross over a Valley towards the Sea, the quite contrary
Way from that which led to their Retreat, which they
were afraid of; and being satisfy'd with that, they went
back to the Tree, where they left their Prisoner, who, as
they suppos'd, was deliver'd by his Comrades; for he was
gone, and the two Pieces of Rope-Yarn, with which they
had bound him, lay just at the Foot of the Tree.
They were now in as a great a Concern as before, not
knowing what Course to take, or how near the Enemy
might be, or in what Numbers; so they resolv'd to go
away to the Place where their Wives were, to see if all
was well there, and to make them easy, who were in
Fright enough to be sure; for tho' the Savages were their
own Country Folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of
them, and perhaps the more, for the Knowledge they had
of them.
When they came there, they found the Savages had
been in the Wood, and very near that Place, but had not
found it; for it was indeed inaccessible, by the Trees
standing so thick, as before, had not the Persons seeking
it been directed by those that knew it, which these did
not; they found therefore every Thing very safe, only the
Women in a terrible Fright: While they were here, they
had the Comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to
their Assistance; the other ten, with their Servants, and
old Friday, I mean Friday's Father, were gone in a Body
to defend their Bower, and the Corn, and Cattle that was
kept there, in Case the Savages should have rov'd over to
that Side of the Country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three Savages,
who, as I said, were their Prisoners formerly; and with
them also came the Savage, who the English Men had
left bound Hand and Foot at the Tree; for it seems they
came that Way, saw the Slaughter of the seven Men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them;
where, however, they were oblig'd to bind him again, as
they had the two others, who were left when the third run
away.
The Prisoners began now to be a Burden to them; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they were once
resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an
absolute Necessity to do so, for their own Preservation:
However, the Spaniard Governour would not consent to
it, but order'd for the present, that they should be sent
out of the Way to my old Cave in the Valley, and be kept
there with two Spaniards to guard them, and give them
Food for their Subsistence, which was done; and they
were bound there Hand and Foot for that Night.
When the Spaniards came, the two English Men were
so encourag'd, that thy could not satisfy themselves to
stay any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards,
and themselves, with four Muskets and a Pistol among
them, and two stout Quarter-Staves, away they went in
Quest of the Savages. And first they came to the Tree
where the Men lay that had been kill'd; but it was easy to
see, that some more of the Savages had been there; for
they had attempted to carry their dead Men away, and
haddragg'dtwoofthemagoodWay, buthadgivenitover.
From thence they advanc'd to the first rising Ground,
where they stood, and saw their Camp destroy'd, and
where they had the Mortification still to see some of the
Smoak ;but neither couldthey here see any of the Savages;
They then resolv'd, tho' with all possible Caution, to go
forward towards their ruin'd Plantation. But a little be-
fore they came thither, coming in Sight of the Sea Shore,
they saw plainly the Savages all embarking again in their
Canoes, in order to be gone.
They seem'd sorry at first; and there was no Way to
come at them, to give them a parting Blow: But upon the
whole, were very well satisfy'd to be rid of them.
The poor English Men being now twice ruin'd, and all
their Improvement destroy'd, the rest all agreed to come
and help them rebuild, and to assist them with needful
Supplies. Their three Countrymen, who were notyet not-
ed for having the least Inclination to do any Good, yet as
soon as they heard of it (for they living remote Eastward,
knew nothing of the Matter 'till all was over) came and
offer'd their Help and Assistance, and did very friendly
work for several Days, to restore their Habitation, and
make Necessaries for them: And thus, in a little Time,
they were set upon their Legs again.
About two Days after this, they had the farther Satis-
faction of seeing three of the Savages Canoes come driv-
ing on Shore, and at some Distance from them, two
drown'd Men; by which they had Reason to believe, that
they had met with a Storm at Sea, and had overset some
of them; for it had blown very hard the very Night after
they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so on the other
Hand, enough of them escap'd to inform the rest, as well
of what they had done, as of what had happen'd to them;
and to whet them on to another Enterprize of the same
Nature, which they, it seems, resolv'd to attempt, with
sufficient Force to carry all before them; for except what
the first Man had told them of Inhabitants, they could
say little to it of their own Knowledge; for they never
saw one Man, and the Fellow being kill'd that had
affirm'd it, they had no other Witness to confirm it to
them.
It was five or six Months after this, before they heard
any more of the Savages; in which Time our Men were
in Hopes they had either forgot their former bad Luck, or
given over the Hopes of better; when on a sudden they
were invaded with a most formidable Fleet, of no less
than eight and twenty Canoes full of Savages, arm'd with
Bows and Arrows, great Clubs, wooden Swords, and such
like Engines of War; and they brought such Numbers
with them, that in short, it put all our People into the ut-
most Consternation.
As they came on Shore in the Evening, and at the
Easter-most Side of the Island, our Men had that Night
to consult and consider what to do; and, in the first Place,
knowing that their being entirely conceal'd, was their
only Safety before, and would much more be so now,
while the Number of their Enemies was so great, they
therefore resolv'd first of all to take down the Huts which
were built for the two English Men, and drive away their
Goats to the old Cave; because they suppos'd the Savages
would go directly thither, as soon as it was Day, to play
the old Game over again, tho' they did not now land with-
in two Leagues of it.
In the next Place, they drove away all the Flock of
Goats they had at the old Bower, as I call'd it, which be-
long'd to the Spaniards; and in short, left as little Ap-
pearance of Inhabitants any where as was possible; and
the next Morning early they posted themselves with all
their Force at the Plantation of the two Men, waiting for
their Coming: As they guess'd, so it happen'd; these
new Invaders leaving their Canoes at the Easft End of the
Island, came ranging along the Shore direcUy towards
the Place, to the Number of twohundredand fifty, asnear
asour Men couldjudge. Our Army was butsmall indeed;
but that which was worse, they had not Arms for all their
Numberneither :ThewholeAccountitseems,sl:oodthus:
First, as to Men.
17 Spaniards.
5 English Men.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's Father.
3, the three Slaves taken with the Women, who
prov'd very faithful.
3 Other Slaves who liv'd with the Spaniards.
To arm these, they had,
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-Pieces.
5 Muskets or Fowling-Pieces, which were taken
by me from the mutinous Seamen, who I
reduc'd.
2 Swords, 3 old Halberds.
To their Slaves they did not give either Musket or Fu-
zee, but they had every one a Halberd, or a long Staff, like
a Quarter-Staff, with a great Spike of Iron fasten'd into
each End of it, and by his Side a Hatchet; also every one
of our Men had Hatchets: Two of the Women could not
be prevail'd upon but they would come into the Fight,
and they had Bows and Arrows, which the Spaniards had
taken from the Savages, when the first Action happen'd,
which I have spoken of, where the Indians fought with
one another, and the Women Hatchets too.
The Spaniard Governour, who I havedescrib'd so of-
ten, commanded the whole; and William Atkins, who,
tho' a dreadful Fellow for Wickedness, was a most
daring boldFellow, commanded'underhim. The Savages
came forward like Lyons, and our Men, which was the
worst of their Fate, had no Advantage in their Situation;
only that Will. Atkins, who now prov'd a most useful
Fellow, with six Men, was planted just behind a small
Thicket of Bushes, as an advanc'd Guard, with Orders to
let the first of them pass by, and then fire into the Middle
of them; and as soon as he had fir'd, to make his Retreat
as nimbly as he could round a Part of the Wood, and so
come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a
Thicket of Trees also before them.
When the Savages came on, they run straggling about
every Way in Heaps, out of all manner of Order, and
W. Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him, then
seeing the rest come in a very thick Throng, he orders
three of his Men to fire, having loaded their Muskets
with six or seven Bullets a piece, about as big as large Pis-
tol Bullets. How many they kill'd or wounded they knew
not, but the Consternationand Surprizewas inexpressible
among the Savages; they werefrighted to the last Degree,
to hear such a dreadful Noise, and see their Men kill'd,
and others hurt, but see no Body that did it; when in
the Middle of their Fright, W. Atkins, and his other
three, let fly again among the thickest of them; and in less
than a Minute the first three, being loaded again, gave
them a third Volley.
Had W. Atkins and his Men retir'd immediately,
as soon as they had fir'd, as they were order'd to do; or
had the rest of the Body been at Hand to havepour'd in
their Shot continually, the Savages had been effectually
routed; for the Terror that was among them, came prin-
cipally from this, (viz.) That they were kill'd by the Gods
with Thunder and Lightning, and could see no Body
that hurt them; but W. Atkins staying to load again,
discover'd the Cheat. Some of the Savages who were at a
Distance, spying them, came upon them behind, and
tho' Atkins and his Men fir'd at them also, two or three
Times, and kill'd above twenty, retiring as fast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and kill'd one of
his Fellow Englishmen with their Arrows, as they did af-
terwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian Slaves who
came with the Women; this Slave was a most gallant
Fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five of them
with his own Hand, having no Weapon, but one of the
arm'd Staves and a Hatchet.
Our Men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and
two other Men kill'd, retreated to a rising Ground in the
Wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three Vollies upon
them, retreated also; for their Number was so great, and
they were so desperate, that tho' above fifty of them
were kill'd, and more than so many wounded, yet they
came on in the Teeth of our Men, fearless of Danger, and
shot their Arrows like a Cloud; and it was observ'd, that
their wounded Men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their Wounds, andfoughtlike Mad-
men.
When our Men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman that was kill'd behind them; and the Sav-
ages, when they came up to them, kill'd them over again
in a wretched Manner, breaking the Arms, Legs, and
Heads, with their Clubs and wooden Swords, like true
Savages: But finding our Men were gone, they did not
seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kind
of a Ring, which is, it seems, their Custom, and shouted
twice in Token of their Victory: After which, they had the
Mortification to see several of their wounded Men fall,
dying with the meer Loss of Blood.
The Spaniard Governor having drawn his little Body
up together upon a rising Ground, Atkins, tho' he was
wounded, would ha' had him march'd and charg'd them
again altogether at once: But the Spaniards reply'd, Sei-
gnior Atkins, you see how their wounded Men fight, let
them alone till Morning; all these wounded Men will
be stiff" and sore with their Wounds, and faint with the
Loss of Blood; and so we shall have the fewer to en-
gage.
The Advice was good: But Will. Atkins reply'd merri-
ly, That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's the
Reason I would go on while I am warm. Well, Seignior
Atkins, says the Spaniards, you have behav'd gallantly,
and done your Part; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on, but I think it best to stay 'till Morning; so they
waited.
But as it was a clear Moon-light Night, and they found
the Savages in greatDisorderabouttheirdeadand wound-
ed Men, and a great Hurry and Noise among them where
VOL. II p
they lay, they afterwards resolv'd to fall upon them in the
Night, especially if they could come to give them but one
Volley before they were discover'd, which they had a fair
Opportunity to do; for one of the two Englishmen, in
whose Quarter it was where the Fight began, led them
round between the Woods, and Sea-side Westward, and
then turning short South, they came so near where the
thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or heard,
eight of them fir'd in among them, and did dreadful Exe-
cution upon them; in half a Minute more, eight others
fir'd after them, pouring in their small Shot in such a
Quantity, that abundance were kill'd and wounded; and
all this while they were not able to see who hurt them, or
which Way to fly.
The Spaniards charg'd again with the utmost Expedi-
tion, and then divided themselves into three Bodies, and
resolv'd to fall in among them altogether: They had in
each Body eight Persons, that is to say, 24, whereof were
22 Men, and the 2 Women, who by the Way fought de-
sperately.
They divided the Fire-Arms equally in each Party,
and so of the Halberds and Staves: They would have had
the Women keep back, but they said they were resolv'd
to die with their Husbands: Having thus form'd their
little Army, they march'd out from among the Trees, and
came up to the Teeth of the Enemy,shoutingandhollow-
ing as loud as they could; the Savages stood all together,
but were in the utmost Confusion, hearing the Noise of
our Men shouting from three Quarters together; they
wouldhavefoughtif they had seen us: And as soon as we
came near enough to be seen, some Arrows were shot,
and poor old Friday was wounded, tho' not dangerously:
But our Men gave them no Time; but running up to
them, fir'd among them three Ways, and then fell in with
the But-ends of their Muskets, their Swords, arm'd Sta-
ves, and Hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a
Word, they set up a dismal Skreaming and Howling, fly-
ing to save their Lives, which Way soever they could.
Our Men were tir'd with the Execution; and kill'd, or
mortally wounded, in the two Fights, about 180 of them;
the rest, being frighted out of their Wits, scour'd through
the Woods, and over the Hills, with all the Speed and
Fear that nimble Feet could help them to do; and as we
did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got
all together to the Sea Side, where they landed, and
where their Canoes lay. But their Disaster was not at an
Endyet; for it blew a terrible Storm of Wind that Even-
ing from the Seaward, so that it was impossible for them
to go off"; nay, the Storm continuing all Night, when the
Tide came up, their Canoes were most of them driven by
the Surge of the Sea so high upon the Shore, that it re-
quir'd infinite Toil to get them off; and some of them
were even dash'd to Pieces against the Beach, or against
one another.
Our Men, tho' glad of their Victory, yet got little Rest
that Night; but having refresh'd themselves as well as
they could, they resolv'd to march to that Part of the Is-
land where the Savages were fled, and see what Posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the Place
where the Fight had been, and where they found several
of the poor Creatures not quite dead, and yet past re-
covering Life; a Sight disagreeable enough to generous
Minds; for a truly great Man, tho' obliged by the Law of
Battle to destroy his Enemy, takes no Delight in his
Misery.
However, there was no Need to give any Orders in
this Case; for their own Savages, who were their Servants
dispatch'd those poor Creatures with their Hatchets.
At length they came in View of the Place where the
more miserable Remains of the Savages Army lay, where
there appear'd about an hundred still; their Posture was
generally sitting upon the Ground, with their Knees up
towards their Mouth, and the Head put between the two
Hands, leaning down upon the Knees.
When our Men camewithin two Musket Shotof them,
the Spaniard Governor order'd two Muskets to be fir'd
without Ball, to alarm them; this he did, that by their
Countenance he might know what to expect, viz. Whe-
ther they were still in Heart to fight, or were so heartily
beaten, as to be dispirited and discourag'd, and so he
might manage accordingly.
This Stratagem took; for, as soon as the Savages heard
the first Gun, and saw the Flash of the Second, they start-
ed up upon their Feet in the greatest Consternation ima-
ginable; and as our Men advanc'd swiftly towards them,
they all ran skreaming and yawling away, with a kind of
a howlingNoise, which our Men did not understand, and
had never heard before; and thus they ran up the Hills in-
to the Country.
At first, our Men had much rather the Weather had
been calm, and they had all gone away to Sea: But they
did not then consider that this might probably have been
the Occasion of their coming again in such Multitudes,
as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many, and so
often, as would quite desolatethe Island, andstarvethem:
Will. Atkin s therefore, who, notwithstandinghis Wound,
kept always with them, prov'd the best Counsellor in this
Case: His Advice was, to take the Advantagethatoffer'd,
and clap in between them and their Boats, and so deprive
them of the Capacity of ever returning any moretoplague
the Island.
They consulted long about this, and some were against
it, for fear of making the Wretches fly to the Woods, and
live there desperate; and so they should have them to
hunt like wild Beasts, be afraid to stir outabouttheir Busi-
ness, and have their Plantations continually rifled, all
their tame Goats destroy'd, and, in short, be reduc'd to a
Life of continual Distress.
Will. Atkins told them, they had better have to do with
a hundred Men, than with a hundred Nations: That as
they must destroy their Boats, so they must destroy the
Men, or be all of them destroy'd themselves. In a Word,
he shew'd them the Necessity of it so plainly, that they all
came into it; so they went to work immediately with the
Boats, and getting some dry Wood together from a dead
Tree, they try'd to set some on them on Fire, but they
were so wet, that they would not burn; however, the Fire
so burn'd the upper Part, that itsoon madethemunfit tor
swimming in the Sea as Boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out
of the Woods, and coming as near as they could to our
Men, kneel'ddown, andcry'd, Oa, Oa, PFaramokoa, and
some other Words of their Language, which none of the
others understood any thing of; but as they made pitiful
Gestures, and strange Noises, it was easy to understand,
they begg'd to have their Boats spar'd, and that they
would be gone, and never come there again.
But our Men were now satisfy'd, that they had no Way
to preserve themselves, or to save their Colony, but effec-
tually to prevent any of these People from ever going
Home again; depending upon this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their Country to tell the Story,
the Colony was undone; so that letting them know
that they should not have any Mercy, they fell to work
with their Canoes, and destroy'd them every one, that the
Storm had not deslxoy'd before; at the Sight of which, the
Savages rais'd a hideous Cry in the Woods, which our
People heard plain enough; after which, they ran about
the Island like distracted Men; so that, in a Word, our
Men did not really know at first what to do with them.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their Prudence, con-
sider, that while they made those People thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good Guard at the same Time
upon their Plantations; for tho' it is true, they had driven
away their Cattle, and the Indians did not find out their
main Retreat, I mean my old Castle at the Hill, nor the
Cave in the Valley, yet they found out my Plantation at
the Bower and pull'd it all to Pieces, and all the Fences
and Planting about it; trod all the Corn under Foot; tore
up the Vines and Grapes, being just then almost ripe, and
did to our Men an inestimable Damage, tho' to themsel-
ves not one Farthing-worth of Service.
Tho' our Men were able to fight them upon all Occa-
sions, yet they were in no Condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble of
Foot for our Men, when they found them single, so our
Men durst not go about single, for fear of being surround-
ed with their Numbers. The best was they had no Wea-
pons, for tho' they had Bows they had no Arrows left,
nor any Materials to make any, nor had they any edg'd
Tool or Weapon among them.
The Extremity and Distress they were reduc'd to was
great, and indeed deplorable; but at the same Time, our
Men were also brought to very bad Circumstances by
them; for tho' their Retreats were preserv'd, yet their
Provision was destroy'd, and their Harvest spoil'd, and
what to do, or which Way to turn themselves, they knew
not: The only Refuge they had now, was the Stock of
Cattle they had in the Valley by the Cave, and some little
Corn which grew there; and the Plantation of the three
Englishmen, William Atkins and his Comrades, who were
now reduc'd to two, one of them being kill'd by an
Arrow which struck him on the Side of -his Head, just
under the Temple, so that he never spoke more; and it
was very remarkable, that this was the same barbarous
Fellow who cut the poor Savage Slave with his Hatchet,
and who afterwards intended to have murder'd all
the Spaniards.
I look'd upon their Case to have been worse at this
Time, than mine was at any Time, after I first discover'd
the Grains of Barley and Rice,and got into the Manner of
planting and raising my Corn, and my tame Cattle; for
now they had, as I may say, a hundred Wolves upon the
Island, which would devoureveryThingthey could come
at, yet could very hardly be come at themselves.
The first Thing they concluded, when they saw what
their Circumstanceswere,was,thatthey would, if possible,
drive them up to the farther Part of the Island, South-
West, that if any more Savages came on Shore, they might
not find one another. Then, that they would daily hunt
and harrass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduc'd their Number; and if they
could at last tame them, and bring them to any Thing,
they would give them Corn, and teach them how to plant
and live upon their daily Labour.
In order to this, they so follow'd them, and so terrify'd
them with their Guns, that in a few Days, if any of them
fir'd a Gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him,yethe would
fall down for Fear; and so dreadfully frighted they were,
that they kept out of Sight farther and farther, till at last
our Men following them, and every Day almost killing
and wounding some of them, they kept up in the Woods
and hollow Places so much, that it reduc'd them to the
utmost Misery for want of Food, and many were after-
wards found dead in the Woods, without any Hurt, but
meerly starv'd to Death.
When our Men found this, it madetheir Heartsrelent,
and Pity mov'd them; especially the SpaniardGovemour,
who was the most gentlemanly generous-minded Man
as ever I met with in my Life; and he propos'd, if possi-
ble, to take one of them alive, and bring him to under-
stand what they meant, so far as to be able to act as Inter-
preter, and to go among them, and see if they might be
brought to some Conditions, that might be depended
upon, to save their Lives, and to do us no Spoil.
It was some while before any of them could be taken;
but being weak and half starv'd, one of them was at last
surpriz'd and made a Prisoner; he was sullen at first, and
would neither eat or drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and Victuals given him, and no Violence offer'd
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talk'd often with
him, and told himhowkind theotherwouldbe to them all;
that they would not only save their Lives, but would give
them a Part of the Island to live in, provided they would
give Satisfaction that they would keep in their own
Bounds, and not come beyond it, to injure or prejudice
others, and that they should have Corn given them, to
plant and make it grow for their Bread, and some Bread
given them for their present Subsistence; and old Friday
bad the Fellow go and talk with the rest of his Country-
men, and see what they said to it, assuring them, that if
they did not agree immediately, they should be all de-
stroy'd.
Thepoor Wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduc'd
in Number to about thirty seven, clos'd with the Proposal
at the first Offer, and begg'd to have some Food given
them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two English-
men well arm'd, with three Indian Slaves, andoldFriday,
march'd to the Place where they were; the three Indian
Slaves carry'd them a large Quantity of Bread; someRice
boil'd up to Cakes, and dry'd in the Sun, and three live
Goats; and they were order'd to go to the Side of a Hill,
where they sat down, eat the Provisions very thankfully,
and were the most faithful Fellows to their Words that
could be thought of; for except when they came to beg
Victuals and Directions, they never came out of their
Bounds; and there they liv'd when I came to the Island,
and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant Corn, make Bread,
breed tame Goats and milk them; they wanted nothing
but Wives, and they soon would have been a Nation.
They were confin'd to a Neck of Land, surrounded with
high Rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the Sea
before them, on the South-East Corner of the Island:
They had Land enough, and it was very good and fruit-
ful : they had a Piece of Land about a Mile and half broad,
three or four Mile in Length.
Our Men taught them to make wooden Spades, such
as I made for myself, and gave them among them twelve
Hatchets, and three or four Knives; and there they liv'd
the most subjected innocent Creatures that ever were
heard of.
After this, the Colony enjoy'd a perfect Tranquility
with Respe£t to the Savages, till I came to revisit them,
which was above two Years: Not, but that now and then
some Canoes of Savages came on Shore for their trium-
phal unnatural Feasts, but as they were of several Na-
tions, and perhaps had never heard of those that came be-
fore, or the Reason of it, they did not make any Search or
Enquiry after their Countrymen; and iftheyhad,itwould
have been very hard to have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full Account of all that
happen'd to them, to my Return, at leasl: that was worth
Notice. The Indians or Savages were wonderfully civi-
liz'd by them, and they frequently went amongthem, but
forbid, on Pain of Death, any one of the Indians coming
to them, because they would not have their Settlement
betray'd again.
One Thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the Savages to make Wicker-work, or Baskets; but they
soon outdid their Masters; for they made Abundance of
most ingenious Things in Wicker-work; particularly, all
Sorts of Baskets, Sieves, Bird-Cages, Cup-boards, &c. as
also Chairs to sit on, Stools, Beds, Couches, and Abun-
dance of other Things, being very ingenious at such
Work, when they were once put in the Way of it.
My coming was a particular Relief to these People, be-
cause we furnish'd them with Knives, Scissars, Spades,
Shovels, Pick-axes, and all Things of that Kind which
they could want.
With the Help of these Tools they were so very handy,
that they cameat last to buildup their Huts, or our Houses,
very handsomely; raddling or working it up like Basket-
work all the way round, which was a very extraordinary
Piece of Ingenuity, and look'd very odd, but was an ex-
ceeding good Fence, as well against Heat, as against all
Sorts of Vermine; and our Men were so taken with it,
that they got the wild Savages to come and do the like for
them; so that when I came to see the two Englishmens Co-
lonies, they look'd, at a Distance, as if they liv'd all like
Bees in a Hive; and as for Will. Atkins, who was now be-
come a very industrious necessary and sober Fellow, he
had made himself such a Tent of Basket-work as I believe
was never seen; it was 120 Paces round in the Out-side,
as I measur'dbymy Steps; the Walls were as close work'd
as a Basket in Pannels, or Squares of 32 in Number,
and very strong, standing about seven Foot high; in the
middle was another not above 22 Paces round, but built
stronger, being Eight-square in its Form, and in the eight
Corners stood eight very strong Posts, round the Top of
which he laid strong Pieces pinn'd together with wooden
Pins, from which he rais'd a Piramid for the Roof of
eight Rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and join'd
together very well, tho' he had no Nails, and only a few
Iron Spikes, which he made himself too, out of the old
Iron that I had left there; and indeed this Fellow shew'd
abundance of Ingenuity in several Things, which he had
no Knowledge of; he made him a Forge, with a Pair of
wooden Bellows to blow the Fire; he made himself Char-
coal for his Work, and he form'd out of one of the Iron
Crows a middling good Anvil to hammer upon; in this
Manner he made many Things, but especially Hooks,
Staples and Spikes, Bolts and Hinges. But to return to
the House; after he had pitch'd the Roof of his innermost
Tent, he work'd it up between the Rafters with Basket-
work, so firm, and thatch'd that over again so ingeniously
with Rice-straw, and over that a large Leaf of a Tree,
which cover'd the Top, that his House was as dry as if it
had been til'd or slated. Indeed he own'd that the Savages
made the Basket-work for him.
The outer Circuit was cover'd, as a Lean-to, all round
this inner Apartment, and long Rafters lay from the two
and thirty Angles to the top Posts of the inner House, be-
ing about twenty Foot Distant; so that there was a Space
like a Walk within the outer Wicker-wall, and without
the inner, near twenty Foot wide.
The inner Place he partition'd off with the same Wick-
er-work, but much fairer, and divided it into six Apart-
ments, so that he had six Rooms on a Floor; and out of
every one of these there was a Door, first into the Entry
or Coming into the main Tent, and another Door into the
Space or Walk that was round it; so that Walk was also
divided into six equal Parts, which serv'd not only for Re-
treat, but to store up any Necessaries which the Family
had Occasion for. These six Spaces not taking up the
whole Circumference, what other Apartments the outer
Circle had, were thus order'd: As soon as you were in at
the Door of the outer Circle, you had a short Passage
strait before you to the Door of the inner House, but on
either Side was a wicker Partition, and a Door in it, by
which you went, first, into a large Room or Store-house,
twenty Foot wide, and about thirty Foot long, and thro'
that into another not quite so long; so that in the outer
Circle was ten handsome Rooms, six of which were only
to be come at thro' the Apartments of the inner Tent, and
serv'd as Closets or retiring Rooms to the respective
Chambers of the inner Circle; and four large Ware-
houses or Barns, or what you please to call them, which
went in thro' one another, two on either Hand of the Pas-
sage, that led thro' the outer Door to the inner Tent.
Such a Piece of Basket-work, I believe, was never seen
in the World, nor House, or Tent, so neatly contriv'd,
much less, so built. In this great Bee-hive liv'd the three
Families, that is to say, Will. Atkins and his Companion;
the third was kill'd, but his Wife remain'd with three
Children; for she was, it seems, big with Child when he
dy'd, and the other two were not at all backward to give
the Widow her full Share of every Thing, I mean, as to
their Corn, Milk, Grapes, &c. and when they kill'd a Kid
or found a Turtle on the Shore; so that they all liv'd well
enough, tho' it was true, they were not so industrious as
the other two, as has been observ'd already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. That as
for Religion, I don't know that there was any Thing of
that Kind among them; they pretty often indeed put one
another in Mind that there was a God, by the very com-
mon Method of Seamen, viz. Swearing by his Name:
Nor were their poor ignorant Savage-Wives much the
better for having been marry'd to Christians, as we must
call them; for as they knew very little of God themselves,
so they were utterly uncapable of entering into any Dis-
course with their Wives about a God, or to talk any thing
to them concerning Religion.
The utmost of all the Improvement which I can say the
Wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak English pretty well, and all the Children
they had, which was near 20 in all, were taught to speak
English too, from their first learning to speak, tho' they at
first spoke it in a very broken Manner, like their Mothers.
There were none of these Children above six Years old
when I came thither, for it was not much above seven
Years that they had fetch'd these five Savage Ladies over,
but they had all been pretty fruitful, for they had all Chil-
dren, more or less: I think the Cook's Mate's Wife was
big of her sixth Child; and the Mothers were all a good
Sort of well-govern'd, quiet, laborious Women, modest
and decent, helpful to one another; mighty observant and
subject to their Masters, I cannot call them Husbands;
and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the Chris-
tian Religion, and to be legally marry'd; both which were
happily brought about afterwards by my Means, or, at
least, in Consequence of my coming among them.
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME
I
te Due
