Robinson Crusoe
By DANIEL DEFOE
An Easy-to-Read Book
Edited by ALTHEA CLINTON
Illustrated by
GEORGE LAWSON
THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
AKRON, OHIO NEW YORK
Publishers for the Children

Copyright MCMXXXIV
by The Saalfield Publishing Company
Made in United States of America
The Life and Adventures
of Robinson Crusoe
CHAPTER I
T WAS born in the town of York in the year of 1632.
J- I was the third son of a man of some wealth, and
was not bred to a trade, for my family and friends
wished that I should learn the law. But as I grew
up, I made up my mind to go to sea. My friends did
all they could to keep me at home, but it was of no
use, and on the first of September, 1651, without a
word of it to my father or mother, I embarked on
a ship bound from Hull to London.
We had scarce left the land when the wind blew
up strong. It kept up for several days, and then a
great storm came on. One night I heard one of the
men cry out that the ship had sprung a leak, and we
could hear it creak and crack from end to end.
We saw a ship a short way off, and gave them a
sign that we were in need of aid. They sent out two
small boats which we got into and made our way to
shore, where the people treated us kindly and gave
us clothes and money.
I ought to have gone home, but I was too proud.
So I made my way to London and from there set put
on a ship bound for trade on the coast of Africa.
This was in truth the only successful voyage I ever
made. The captain was a good honest man and with
ROBINSON CRUSOE
his help I made quite a lot of money by trading with
the natives.
On our return to England the captain died, but
I left part of my money in the care of his widow, and
set out for a second trip to the same coast. Our ship
was making its way between the Canary Islands and
the African coast, when we were surprised and taken
captive by a Turkish rover of Sallee.
As I was young and quick, the captain kept me for
his property. He took me to his house to wait on
him and I did not have as hard a time as I expected.
But all the while my mind was bent on how I could
get away. I thought the captain might take me with
him when he went to sea, and thus I would find a
way. But this he did not do.
When I had been with him two years he was not
so strict, but would take me with him when he went
out to fish. One day some guests were to dine with
him, and he sent me out with one of the Moors and a
boy named Xury to catch the fish for dinner. "Now,"
I thought, "this is my chance to get off," for I knew
he kept this boat stocked with provisions.
When we were settled to fish, I stepped up and
took the Moor by surprise and threw him over into
the sea. He was a good swimmer and I knew he
could make it to shore. But when the boy Xury
swore to be true to me, I let him go along.
I set my course southward so as to follow along
the coast. As we had a fair wind we made good
speed, so that by the next day we were quite beyond
the boundary of the Emperor of Morocco. Yet such

was my fear of the Moors that I did not come to
anchor until I had been out five days.
I knew that European ships going to trade on the
Guinea coast always stopped at the Canary Islands
or the Cape de Verde Islands, and that these islands
were not far off the coast. It was my plan to follow
the coast until I came to the cape in the hope that we
would be seen and picked up by one of these ships.
We followed along the coast for days, going on
shore only for water. We saw nothing but unin-
habited country by day and heard nothing but
howlings and roarings of beasts by night. At last, I
thought we must be rounding Cape de Verde, for
some leagues out to sea I could see land, and I judged
that it was the islands. But as yet we had not seen
a ship, and I did not know what course to take from
here. All at once Xury cried, "A ship with a sail!"
How my heart rose with joy!
I saw that it was a large ship, but could not tell
where it was from. They did not see us at first, so
I took a small flag that I had, and made a waft of it,
and shot off my gun for a signal. They did not hear
the gun, but they saw the smoke, and lay by for us to
come up. In less than two hours I brought my boat
alongside.
The ship was from Spain, and bound for South
America. I told them how I had escaped from the
Turk, and the captain took both Xury and me, as
well as all my goods in his ship and offered to carry
us with him to Brazil. Seeing my boat was a good
one, he offered to buy it as well as the boy Xury. I
told him he could have the boat, but that I did not
like to sell Xury as he had helped me to gain my free-
dom. But when the captain promised he would free
him in ten years, I let him have the boy, since Xury
was willing to go.
We had a good voyage to the Brazils and arrived
in the Bay of All Saints twenty-two days after. I can
never forget the generous treatment the captain
gave me. He would take nothing for my passage
and for the boy Xury and the boat and the things in
it he gave me in all two hundred twenty pieces of
eight. And with this stock I went on shore.
For some time I stayed with a good honest man
who was a planter and from him I learned how plant-
ers lived, and how to raise sugar cane and make
sugar. It seemed a pleasant life, and I decided to
use my money to buy land and go into that business.
Accordingly I took out a letter of naturalization
and secured as much new ground as I could buy and
set about laying it out. I had a neighbor, a Mr.
Wells, who was also just starting, and we worked
together.
All went well for four years, our stock increased,
and we were prospering. But more and more I knew
how wrong I had been to sell my boy Xury, for we
wanted nothing so much as some servants to help us
with our work. The other planters round us were
in much the same condition, and one day it was pro-
posed that we make up an expedition to the Guinea
coast to get negroes for our needs. As I had been
there before, the other planters offered to fit out the
ship if I would go to manage the trading.
Accordingly I went on board ship and set sail on
the first of September, 1659, just eight years after
I had left Hull.
CHAPTER H
WE HAD on board six guns, and a crew of ten
men and five boys. Our stock of goods was toys,
beads, bits of glass, shells, and such odd things, that
we knew we could trade for slaves. We sailed north-
ward and soon lost sight of land.
For two weeks the sea was calm, and the air clear
and hot, and then there came a great change. A gale
sprang up and a fierce storm set in. For three days
we could not steer the ship, and high seas that came
on us took off a man and a boy. In the midst of this,
one of the men cried out, "Land!" and we had no
sooner run out to see than we struck upon sand. The
sea broke over us in such a way that we thought we
would all perish.
There was a long boat on the ship, which the mate
let down, and we all got in, but did not have much
hope, as the sea was so wild and rough. We had gone
but a short way when a great wave rolled up astern
and overset the boat. I was full of dread and fear,
and thought there was no hope, but I kept my head
up and swam as well as I could. Wave after wave
picked me up and carried me towards the shore, and
at last I found myself safe. The first thing I did was
to thank God for my life, and then to look for the
rest of the men. But they must have all gone down,
for I saw them no more.
I knew it would not do for me to sit still and grieve,
but that I must get up and see what kind of a place
I was in, and,, as night was near, how and where I
should sleep. It was too late to see much of the place,
but I found fresh water to drink and then not far off
I found a thick tree like a fir, but full of thorns. I
thought I would make this do to sleep in, for I was
full of fear of wild men and beasts. So, when it was
dark I got up in my tree, where I slept as well as I
think few people could have done in my state.
When I woke up the next morning, it was quite
late, and the sun shone bright and clear. I could see
the ship as it lay, one end out of the sea, not quite a
mile off, and the boat in which we took off was high
on the shore near a mile away. At noon the sea was
calm, and the tide so low that I was able to swim to
the ship. Here I found fresh cause for grief, for I
saw that if we had kept on board we would all have
got safe to land, and I would not have been all that
was left.
You may be sure that my first work was to search
for food, and I found the provisions safe and dry.
Then I went to see what else there was in the ship
that I could take on shore.
There were on the ship some spare yards, a mast or
two, some spars of wood, and some rope and planks.
Lowering some of the spars over the side, I tied them
together and then laid planks across to form a raft
that would carry quite a load. My next care was
what to load it with, and how to protect my goods.
I found three seamen's chests and these I lowered
on the raft. One of them I filled with provisions,
putting in it some bread, rice, cheese, and dry meat.
I also found a large case of rum, but there was no
need to put that in the chest, so I put it by the side
of it.
I also took all the clothes that I thought I would
need for a time, and while rummaging for these, I
found what was a great prize to me, a chest with
some tools in it. I took it down to my raft as it was,
for I did not have time to look through it. I then
brought off some arms and ammunition—three good
guns, a bag of shot, two old swords, a powder horn,
and three kegs of powder.
I put all these things on my raft, and taking some
extra oars, I put to sea. Fortunately it was calm and
all went very well. As I neared the shore I felt a
strong indraft of the water, which took me some dis-
tance below my starting point. From this I hoped
to find some creek there that would serve me as a
harbor. And as I imagined, so it was. I guided my
craft into the little stream and so got it safe to shore.
My next work was to view the country, for I yet
knew not whether I was on a continent or on an
island, or whether or not it was inhabited. Taking
one of the guns, I climbed to the top of a steep hill,
and looked about. Then I knew my fate. I was in
an island, and there was no land to be seen, except
some rocks which lay a great way off, and two islands
smaller than this. I saw good reason to believe that
the island was uninhabited unless by wild beasts,
and as yet I saw none of these. Contented with this,
I came back and began to unload my cargo. I made
I put all these things on my raft, and taking
some extra oars, I put to sea.
^
a kind of hut with the chests and boards, and lay in
it for that night, but I did not sleep well.
The next morning, when the tide went out, I swam
to the ship again, for there were yet many things on
it that I could use, and I felt that I must get them on
shore as quickly as I could, for the sea was so strong
at times that I knew the ship could not stand long.
My raft was so large that I left that on shore, and
thought I would make a small one when I got on
the ship. I did so, and then went to look over the ship
again. I found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, some saws and knives, and, to my great joy,
a stone to grind my tools with. I took all the men's
clothes I could find, a spare topsail, and a bed. These
I put on my raft, and brought them all safely to the
shore.
I then went to work to make a small tent in which
I could stay and sleep, as well as store my goods. I
put up one with the sail and some poles I cut, and
brought in all my things that I thought the sun or
rain would spoil. I then stood all the chests and
casks round it, and made a door of some boards and
a chest. When this was done, I spread out my bed,
put my arms close by, and, for the first time since I
had left the ship, I laid down and slept well.
Every day after this as long as the ship stood, I
went on board and brought away what I could.
Among other things I brought off were some knives
and forks, razors, a pair of scissors, and some books.
One day I found some gold, and I made up my mind
to throw it in the sea as worthless, but then I thought,
I may need this some time, so I put it in a piece of
sail, and laid it by in the tent.
The last trip I made, the wind blew hard and drove
me out from the shore. I was in fear that I would
not reach it, but by hard work and with the aid of
the tide, I got on land all safely, and I put up all my
goods, for I knew there would be a storm.
It blew hard all night, and the next morning I saw
that the ship was gone. I felt sad, as though I had
lost a friend.
THE place where I now had my tent was too low
and wet, so I set out to find a better place. On the
side of a hill I found a grassy level with a steep rock
rising behind it. In the rock there was a hollow
place like the door to a cave. I resolved to pitch my
tent just in front of this hollow.
But before I set up my tent, I drove stout stakes in
a semicircle about the place ten yards from the rock,
and thus made a strong fence that would keep out
.^Wi

both man and beast. I made my tent double, for I
knew the rain in these parts was heavy. I first put
up a small tent, then over that a larger one. After
I had brought all my goods in, I closed the fence en-
tirely, and used a ladder to go over the top, drawing
it in after me. Later I enlarged the hollow to serve
as my kitchen and store-room. However, all this
took months of time and much hard work, being a
full year and a half before all was done. And mean-
while I did many other things.
I went out at least once a day with my gun to see
what I could kill that would be fit for food, as I did
not want to eat up all my bread from the ship. I
found flocks of wild pigeons, as well as wild goats
and turtles.
I did not tell you of the two cats that I brought in
my arms from the ship, nor of the dog who swam to
the shore at the same time. My dog always went
hunting with me and was my friend and companion
for years.
As the days went by, I found I must make a note
of time, or I should lose sight of the days and years.
So I made a cross out of some posts and set it up at
the place where I came ashore. On it I cut with my
knife, "I came on shore here on the 30th of Septem-
ber, 1659." Upon the sides of this post I cut every
day a notch, and every seventh notch was as long
again as the rest, and every first day of the month
as long again as that long one. Thus I kept my
calendar.
The next thing for me to do was to make a chair to
sit on, and a table to eat from. These I made out
of the short boards I had brought on the raft from
the ship.
When I was in need of a board for other things, I
had to cut down a tree and hew it flat on both sides
with my ax, then dub it smooth with my adz. I
wrought out some boards in this way and made some
large shelves in my cave, and laid all my tools and
nails and such things in order on them.
Among the books I brought from the ship was a
lot of blank books, pens, and some ink. I knew I
could not make more ink when this was gone, but
I made up my mind that while I had it, I would write
down each night all that I saw, and what took place
through the day, as well as the good and bad
thoughts of the day. This gave me great peace of
mind. My book grew to be like a friend I could talk
to, and I soon saw that we all have more cause for joy
and grief, if we will but look in the right light on
what is sent us.
Looking for a bag to hold some of my powder, I
found one that had had grain in it, but now I saw
nothing left but some dust and husks. These I shook
out just outside my fortification. About a month
later, I saw a few stalks of green shooting out of the
ground, but did not know what they were. I was
astonished when a little later I saw that they were
stalks of barley and rice. You may be sure that I
saved the grain when it was ripe, determined to try
to grow some for my use.
The day after my wall was finished, I felt a great
I was astonished when a little later, I saw
they were stalks of barley and rice.
A
shock. The earth shook so hard that I thought my
tent would fall in. One of the posts gave way, and
I was in great fear. I ran out to see what was the
cause of this. I found the ground loose, and the dirt
and stones thrown up all round. Then I knew it was
an earthquake.
The rain came on for a few days and I felt cold,
which I thought strange, for as near as I could make
out, the island was not far from the equator. The
next day I had a hard chill, and then a great heat
with faint sweats, and for two weeks I was quite ill.
I was too weak to go out to get a drink, and was
almost dead with thirst.
One night I had a strange dream. I saw a great
black cloud, and back of it a bright flame, which
shone on the ground, and a man came out of the
cloud. His face shone like fire, and he held a spear
in his hand. The earth shook and the air was full of
fire. The man said to me: "Thou wilt not pray, nor
turn and love me; now thou shalt die," and he took
up his spear as if he meant to kill me. I gave a cry
and a start, which woke me up.
This led me to think of my sins, of my friends at
home, and that it was all my own self-will that had
brought me here lone and sick. And yet God had
been so good to me to save my life. I thought, "He
sees all things; He can cure me; I will pray to Him
and learn to love Him."
The next day I was quite weak and ill at ease, but
my fit did not come on. I was able to get some water.
But my dream was in my mind, and I made a search
for the Bibles I had brought from the ship, and found
them in one of the chests. The first words that
I read were, "Call on me; I will help thee." And I
knelt down and sent up the cry, "Son of God, be with
me; help me to love Thee and teach me to pray."
This was the first time since a child that I knelt
down to pray to God with a sense that He was near,
and that He would hear and help me. My mind was
now at ease, and that night I lay down and slept well,
and when I woke the next morning, I felt better.
After that I read my book night and morning, and I
soon found that I had a dear Friend, to whom I could
go and get peace.
When the rain was gone, and I grew strong, I de-
cided to make a tour of the island to see if I could
find a good place to go in case of another earthquake,
as well as to see what I could find to eat. I had long
wanted to do it, but the need to finish my fortification
and care for my goods had prevented it until now.
It was the fifteenth of July that I began my survey
of the island. I went up the creek first, where, as I
have said, I brought my raft ashore. I found that
the tide did not flow more than two miles up it, and
above that it was no more than a little brook of run-
ning water, very fresh and good.
On the bank of the brook, I found many pleasant
meadows covered with grass, and on the higher part
of them, where I supposed the water never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco. There were
various other plants which I had no notion of. ^ I
searched for cassava root from which the Indians in
this climate made bread, but found none. However,
I saw several sugar canes, but wild and imperfect
from want of cultivation.
The next day, I went up the same way again, and
going farther, I found the country became more
woody. In this part I found different fruits. There
was an abundance of melons upon the ground, and
grapes hanging among the trees, and these were just
now in their prime, very ripe and rich.
I spent all that evening there, and that night for
the first time I slept away from my fortification. I
did as on that first night on the island; I climbed into
a tree and slept very well.
The next morning I proceeded upon my discovery,
going near four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge
of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west,
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out
of the side of the hill, ran the other way, that is, due
east. The country appeared so fresh, so green, so
flourishing, that it looked like a planted garden.
I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange, and
lemon, and citron trees; but all wild and very few
bearing fruit, at least not then. However, the green
limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat,
but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water, which made it very cool and
refreshing. I resolved to lay up a store of grapes as
well as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was then approaching.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this place,
I traveled home carrying with me what I could, and
resolving to bring some bags and carry more home.
But before I got there the grapes were spoiled, for
they were crushed by their own weight. So when I
went back the next day, I gathered a large quantity
of the grapes and hung them upon the out-branches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun.

But of the limes and lemons, I carried baek as many
as I could stand under.
I was so enamored of this place that I spent much
of my time there for the remaining part of the
month of July. I built me a kind of bower there, sur-
rounded with a strong fence, being a double hedge
as high as I could reach, well staked and filled be-
tween with brushwood. In the middle I made a tent
of sail cloth. And here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three nights together, always going over the
fence with a ladder. So now I fancied I had my
country house and my seacoast house.
About the beginning of August, I had finished
my bower and began to enjoy myself. I found the
grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun. I had
above two hundred large bunches. So I began to
take them down from the trees. And it was very
happy that I did so, for no sooner had I taken them
all down, and carried most of them home to my cave,
but it began to rain. And it rained more or less,
every day till the middle of October, and sometimes
I could not stir out of my cave for several days.
During this time I busied myself enlarging my
cave, and so passed the anniversary of my landing
on the island. This day, September thirtieth, I kept
as a solemn fast, confessing my sins, and praying
God for mercy.
A LITTLE after this my ink began to fail me, and
so I used it more sparingly, and wrote down only
the most remarkable events.
Now I thought it proper to sow the barley and rice
I had saved. I had made a wooden spade and so dug
up a piece of ground as well as I could. I sowed only
half the seed at first and was glad I did. For the
season was too dry. The rest I sowed in February
and had a very good crop.
While the grain was growing, I made a trip to my
bower and discovered that the stakes I had used for
my fence had all shot out green branches, much as
willows would do. This made me resolve to make a
hedge of this sort around my first home for it would
make a fine concealment, and this I did.
I found the seasons of the year might be divided
into the rainy and dry seasons. After I found the ill
effects of being out in the rain, I spent as much of
that time indoors as possible. I busied myself mak-
ing baskets from the twigs of the trees of which I
made my hedge. In time I grew to have some skill.
I made another trip over the island and this time
came in view of the sea on the west. It was a very
clear day, and I could see land at a very great dis-
tance. I concluded it must be some part of the
mainland of America.
On this trip I caught a parrot and brought it home
with me and after great pains I taught it to speak.
When the second anniversary of my arrival on the
island came, I kept it in the same solemn manner as
the first. I spent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful
mercies which attended my solitary condition.
Upon my second harvest, I began to think I would
have to have some way to grind my grain and make
my bread.
First, I had to have some pots or jars to keep my
meal in. I thought of the clay dish I had already
made for my lamp, and went to work to make some-
thing of the same sort. You would laugh at the odd
things I made; how some of them fell in and some
fell out, and some would crack with the heat of the
sun, but I kept on, and at last I had two large pots to
keep my meal in.
Though these were quite dry and hard, I saw that
they were not strong, and that I could not bake or
cook in them. One day a piece fell in the fire, and
when I took it out, I found it was burnt as hard as
stone, and as red as a tile. I now made up my mind
to. burn all my pots, and to make a flat dish. How
glad I was, for now I could bake, and boil meat and
make broth as well.
J now sought means to grind my grain. I thought
I would stamp or beat it out. I spent a great deal of
time to find a stone, but as I could not get one, I took
a great block of hard wood, and with my ax and knife
cut a deep hole in it. I put my grain in this hole, and
with a short, thick piece of wood beat it out fine.

The next thing was a sieve to part my meal from
the husk. This put a stop to my work for some
weeks; but one day I found a piece of thin cloth which
I had brought from the ship. With this I made three
small sieves, and these I made last for some years.
The baking was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern my-
self much about it, but for an oven I was in much
need. At length I found a way for that.
I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep, that is to say about two feet in diameter, and
not above nine inches deep. These I burned in the
fire, and laid them by. When I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved
with some tiles. When the firewood was burned
into live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth,
so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till
the hearth was very hot. Then sweeping away all
the embers, I set down my loaves and put an earthen
pot over them. Then I drew the embers all round
the outside of the pot. And thus I baked my barley-
loaves.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took
me the most part of the third year, for I had all my
other work to keep up too.
All this while you may be sure my thoughts ran
upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island, and I thought I would go
and look at our ship's boat, which had been blown
up on the shore a great way off. But I could no more
move it than I could move the island. However, this
made me think that I might make myself a boat or
canoe by hollowing out a tree.
Accordingly I set to work and cut down a tree,
hollowed it and shaped it with my ax and adz. Many
a weary stroke it cost me too, but I was full of hope
and didn't mind. But when I tried to get it to the
water, I found it so large that do what I would, I
could not move it. And now I saw the folly of begin-
ning a work before we count the cost.
In the middle of the work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with
the same devotion and with as much comfort as ever
before.
I HAD now been here so long that many things
which I brought on shore were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent. My ink had
been gone for some time, all but a very little, which
I eked out with water till it was so pale it scarce left
any appearance of black upon the paper. My clothes
began to wear out too, and the weather was so hot
that I could not go quite naked, for the sun blistered
my skin.
I had saved the skins of all the goats I killed, and
now I found them very useful. The first thing I
made of these was a great cap for my head, with the
hair on the outside to shoot off the rain. And after
this I made me a suit of clothes, that is to say, a
waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, both loose,
for they were rather to keep me cool than to keep
me warm.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains
to make an umbrella. The main difficulty I found
was to make it let down. However, at last I made
one to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair
upward to keep off the rains as well as the heat. Had
anyone been there to see me when I went out, I must
either have frightened them or caused them to
laugh.
After this, I cannot say that anything unusual
happened for the next five years, except that I made
another boat. This time I chose a smaller tree,
growing closer to the water. When the boat was
finished, I dug a canal to bring the water to it and so
launched it.
I fitted up a mast and made a sail. Then I made
a place to store my provisions and ammunition, fixed
my umbrella in the stern to keep off the heat of the
sun, and I was ready to go for a trip around the
island.

Though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks to lie out about two leagues into the
sea, so I had to go a long way out to double the point.
Here I was caught by a strong current and swept far
out from the island. I was in the greatest danger of
being carried out to sea, but after much hard work
I succeeded in getting to the shore again, and found
myself on the north end of the island, that is, the
other end from where I had my home. There was
too much danger for me to think of attempting to go
back by boat, so I found a snug cove for my craft,
and, taking my umbrella, went back home on foot.
I would have been glad to have my boat on my side
of the island, but I knew I could not, so I contented
myself without it. But I used to visit it frequently,
and I kept all things about her in very good order.
Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but
scarce ever above a stone's throw from the shore.
But now I come to a new scene in my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to be seen in the sand. I went back to my tent
as fast as I could, and for three days kept close in-
doors. But the want of food drove me out, and I
took a look all round and saw no one, or other signs
of them. So I gradually resumed my old ways of
living, though never with the old sense of security.
Two or three years more went by and I saw no
signs of men, and thought that the print of a man's
foot was not so great a thing to fear. But one day
I went to the top of a hill to look at the sea, and I
thought I saw a boat, but it was so far off that it did
not look like more than a speck. I went down the
hill on the other side to a part of the island where I
had not been, and saw close to the edge of the shore
a pit where a fire had been made, and all round were
strewn skulls, hands and feet, and burnt bones of
men. At the sight of these I grew sick, and went up
the hill with all the speed I could, and when I came
to my tent burst into a flood of tears.
Now I had the care of my safety upon my hands
more than that of my food. I did not make any fire
at my home, but did all that in the woods, and while I
was cutting down some wood, I discovered a natural
cave. Here I brought some ammunition and a gun
and stored some provisions, and felt that I had found
a place where I could hide in time of danger.
And now I came to my twenty-third year on the
island, and was so used to the place and to the way
of living, that could I have enjoyed the certainty that
no savages would come to the place, I could have
been content to have stayed there to the end of my
days. I had my goats, my Polls, and my cats. These
were not the original two. They had multiplied till
I had so many that I had chased away all but these
two. My dog had died, having lived with me sixteen
years. It was now the month of December, and my
harvest time. Going out early one morning, before
daylight, I was surprised to see the light of a fire
upon the shore towards the end where the savages
had been before, but on my side. I ran back to the
top of the hill, and laid down flat, and took a good
look at the place where it came from.
I saw that there was quite a large fire, with nine
men round it. There were two small boats on the
shore, in which they had come. I watched and as
soon as the tide went out, they all got in the boats
and went off.
I went back to my farm and took up all that grew
round my place that would lead them to think I was
there, and made it look as wild as possible. And now
I was glad of my hedge, for it completely hid my
fortification and tent. For a long time I did not do
much on my farm, and kept a close watch for near a
year for the men.
One night in the spring the wind blew hard, and I
knew we should have a storm. I put up all my things
for the night, and sat down in my tent to read God's
word, when I heard a gun, and in a short time I heard
it once more. Then I knew that it came from some
ship at sea in need of aid. I ran to the top of the hill
and built a large fire as a signal. But the wind blew
so hard I could hardly keep it up, and it was so dark
I could not see a thing. In the morning, I saw that
a ship was stuck on the same sand where our ship
had been lost.
Now for the first time in years I got my boat out
and set sail for the ship. I did not think of the wild
men, for I wanted to save the lives of those who
might be on board. In less than two hours I came
up to it. But a dog was all that was left alive on
board. I fed him and put him in my boat and brought
him off with me when I went.
I searched the ship and brought off what I could
get in my boat. There were two chests, a good spy-
glass, three large flasks, a pair of tongs, a small pot,
and some good shirts.
When I came to look in the chests, I found in one
of them three large bags of gold. I laid it by with
the rest in hopes that at some time I might be able
to use it.
AFTER this I reposed myself and continued in my
- old way of living for nearly two years more.
Then one morning- going out early, I saw five small
boats on the shore, quite close by, and near them full
three score black men.
I took my gun and my glass, and went to the top
of the hill above my home to watch. I saw they had
a fire and some kind of meat, but I could not tell what
it was. They all sat down as I supposed to eat.
When they were through, some of them got up and
danced.
While I was watching them, I saw two miserable
wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems,
they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I saw one of them knocked down, and
the other victim was left standing while the savages
attended to the first. In that very moment this poor
wretch, seeing himself left free for a moment,
started away and ran along the sands directly to-
wards my habitation.
I was dreadfully frightened, until I saw that only
three of the savages pursued him, and that he was
gaining ground on them rapidly. The creek was be-
tween them and my castle. When the escaping
savage came thither, he plunged in, swam through
in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and
ran on swiftly. When the pursuers came to it, one
turned back. The other two swam through, but took
nearly twice as long-.
Now it came to me that I should save the poor
savage, and perhaps get a servant and companion
for myself. Accordingly I took a short cut down the
hill and came in between the pursued and the pur-
suers.
I hallooed to him that fled and motioned for him
to come back to me. In the meantime, I slowly ad-
vanced towards the two that followed. Then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my gun. I was loth to fire, because
I would not have the rest hear, though at that dis-
tance, and being out of sight, they would not have
known what it was. But as I advanced toward the
other, I saw he had a bow and arrow, and was pre-
paring to shoot me. So I was compelled to fire at
him, and killed him at once.
The fire and noise of my gun gave the poor run-
away such a fright that he could not move. I
beckoned him again and again to come to me, and
gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could
think of; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowl-
edgment for my saving his life. I smiled to him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned him to come still
nearer. At length he came close to me, and then he
kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his
head upon the ground, and taking me by the foot,
set my foot upon his head. This, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave forever.
Taking me by the foot, he set my foot upon his head.
This was a token of swearing to be my slave forever.
I took him up and made much of him, and beckoned
him to follow me. Upon this he signed to me that he
should bury the dead savages in the sand so that
they might not be seen by the rest if they should
follow. I made signs for him to do so. He fell to
work and with his hands scraped holes big enough
to bury them in. And I believe he had buried them
both in a quarter of an hour.
Then calling him away, I took him, not to my
castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part
of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch
of raisins to eat, and a draught of water. Having
refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie down
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice-straw and a blanket, which I used to
sleep upon sometimes. So the poor creature lay
down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead very high and large. The
color of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny,
a kind of a dun olive color, that had in it something
very agreeable, though not very easy to describe.
His face was round and plump; his nose small, not
flat like the negroes; he had a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth were well set, and white as
ivory.
I stayed there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some clothes; at which
he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we
went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, making signs to me
that we should dig them up again, and eat them. At
this I appeared very angry, and beckoned to him to
come away; which he did immediately, with great
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill,
to see if his enemies were gone. Pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, with-
out any search after them.
As I could not tell what his name was, I decided
to call my savage Friday, from the day on which I
had saved his life. I made him understand that was
his name, and taught him to say master and that he
was to call me so.
As soon as we came back to our castle, I fell to
work to make clothes for my man Friday. I gave
him a pair of linen drawers out of the chest I had
found on the wreck, and made him a coat and cap
out of goat's skin. It is true he went awkwardly in
these things at first, but at length he took to them
very well.
I was greatly delighted with Friday, and made it
my business to teach him everything that was proper
to make him useful, handy, and helpful. I began
now to consider that, having two mouths to feed in-
stead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn. So I
marked out a larger piece of land, in which Friday
not only worked very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully. He let me know that he
thought I had much more labor put upon me on
his account than I had for myself, and that he
would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and
understand the names of almost everything I had
occasion to call for, and to talk a great deal to me.
His simple honesty appeared more and more every
day, and I began to really love him. And on his side,
I believe he loved me more than he had ever loved
anything before.
I described to him the country of Europe, and how
we lived, and how we worshipped God, how we be-
haved to one another, and how we traded in ships to
all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him
the ruins of the boat which we had lost when we
escaped. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood mus-
ing a great while. At last he said, "Me see such a
boat like come to place at my nation. We save white
mans from drown." On his fingers he told me there
were seventeen men, and added, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."
It occurred to me that these men might belong to
the ship that was cast away in sight of my island. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them
and eat them. He said, "No, they make brother with
them. They no eat mans but when make the war
fight." Then he said they had learned much from
the bearded men.
This gave me the idea that Friday and I might go
to the mainland and bring these men back with us.
I asked him, and he said we could if we had a big
enough boat. I showed him the boat I had made, but
he shook his head and said no; that we would need
"two canoe," by which I finally understood that we
would need one twice as large.
We found a tree that Friday thought would do,
and set to work to make one. We both took a great
deal of pains to make the boat. When it was through
I felt proud of it, and had no doubt that it would sail
well, and began to prepare all things for our voyage.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my captivity in this place, and Friday had
been with me near three years.
ONE day I sent Friday to the shore to see if he
could find one of the large crabs there. He had
not been gone long when I saw him on the run, and
heard him cry: ''Oh sir! Oh sir! Oh sad! Oh bad!''
"What is it, Friday?" I asked when he came up.
"Oh! there one, two, three boats! One, two,
three!"
I took my glass and went up on the side of the hill.
From there I saw that there were three boats, and
more than a score of men, who had just come on land,
and brought with them three men bound hand and
foot. They had come to hold one of their feasts. I
made up my mind I would put a stop to this. I told
Friday to come and to keep close to me.
When I came to the skirt of the wood next to them,
I told Friday to go to a large tree and look, and bring
me word if he could see what they were at. He came
back and said that they had made a fire, and had
three bound men close by, and that one of them was
a white man. He thought one of the three was
already dead.
I went to a place near by where I could see all they
did. I found that they had sent two of their men to
kill the white man, and would soon cook and eat him
up like the rest. I knew I had no time to lose. I said
to Friday, "Do as I bid you, and just as you see me
do. Do not fail."

He said, "Yes," and when I gave the word "Fire!"
he shot at them the same time as I did.
The men ran all sorts of ways, with loud yells and
cries of fright, and went for their boats. Then Fri-
day and I shot at them once more. I went up to the
poor white man, and cut the bands and told him to
get up. But he was too weak to speak or stand.
While I was with him, Friday went to look at the
poor wretch who lay bound in a boat the men had
left in their fright. He cut him loose, and with a
groan he sat up. When Friday saw his face, he took
him in his arms and gave him a hug and a kiss. Then
he wrung his hands and beat his own face and head
like a madman. For a long while he did not speak,
and then he told me that he was this man's son.
Now that these poor men were free, I thought we
must get them to our tent, as it was quite late in the
day. I gave them some cakes of bread I had with
me. I saw Friday run off as swift as a deer, but in a
short time he came back with a jug. He had gone
way back to our farm for it, that he might give them
a fresh drink from our spring.
The men by this time were quite at ease, but as
they could not walk, Friday and I made a sort of
hand barrow, and took them to my place.
I sent Friday back for our arms, and all the things
that we had left on the shore. In the meantime I cut
up a young kid and went to work to boil or stew some
of it, and I made them both a good dish of broth,
with some rice in it.
Friday soon came back with the things I had sent
him for, and we had our meal. And then I told him
to put the men to bed, and stay with them for the
night, for they might want him.
The next morning I had a long talk with the men.
Friday's father had such a queer name that I called
him Jack. The white man, whom I shall call Frank,
told me that he had come from Spain and that he
with some others had been in the ship wrecked off
my island. They went in the small boat to the main-
land, where they were living with the natives.
Frank said that he thought if we went to these
people, the white men would be glad to come back
with me and serve me. This I decided to do.
However, we thought it best to prepare tents for
them and to increase our supplies first. And for a
year and a half we did nothing but work on the farm.
Then when I felt that I had what would keep us all,
I sent Frank and Jack out in a boat to see if they
could find the men and bring them back to me.
THEY had been gone eight days, when one morn-
ing Friday came running in to me and cried, "Oh,
sir! they are come, they are come!"
I thought our men had come, and ran out with all
speed. But I was surprised when presently I saw a
boat with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, about a league
and a half from shore. I knew at once that it was
not our friends.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
and I fetched my glass and went up on the hill to see
what I could. I had scarce set my foot on the hill
when I saw a ship lying at anchor not above a league
and a half from the shore and to the south, southeast.
It appeared plainly to be an English ship". However,
I thought I had best watch them awhile.
Soon I saw them run their boat on shore and get
out. There were in all eleven men, three of whom
were unarmed and, as I thought, bound. The first
four or five of them who jumped ashore took these
men out as prisoners. I was confounded at the sight,
especially as I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, to strike one of the poor men.
I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the sav-
age that was with him.
After a time I saw the men scatter along the shore
as if they wanted to see the country, and I then saw
that the three other men were at liberty to go too.
However, they but sat down upon the ground and
looked very pensive.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came ashore and they carelessly stayed till
their boat was aground. When they found they
could not launch it, they straggled off and lay down

in the woods to wait for high tide again, and soon
lay down and went to sleep.
I now went to my tent, took all the arms I thought
Friday and I could carry and went back to the men
who had been prisoners. They were awake, being
too worried to sleep. "Sirs," I said, "why are you
here, and who are you?"
One man spoke, and said: "My name is John
Smith. We have come from Hull, and that is my
ship out there. We were bound to the South Sea
isles, and on the way out, some of my crew mutinied
and put me in chains. And now they have thrust me,
with my mate and this man, out here to die. They
mean to go back to the ship, and make the rest go
with them where they please."
"Have they fire-arms?" I asked.
"They have two guns which they have left in the
boat."
"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
that they are all asleep now. It will not be a hard
task to kill them all."
I gave each of the three men a gun, and we went
up near a grove where five of the villains were sleep-
ing. One of our men made a slight noise, which
woke two of them, and they spoke to the rest, at
which they made a spring for us. I told our men to
fire. They did so, and we shot two of them, who were
the worst of the lot. The other three begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their
lives if they would swear to be faithful to him and
help him recover the ship. This they promised, but
I made him keep them bound while they were on the
island. While this was going on, I sent Friday to
bring away the oars and sails from the boat. Then
the three other men came straggling up and seeing
what had happened, they also submitted and were
bound also.
I sent the prisoners to my cave and left Friday to
guard them, while I took the captain and the two
men to my tent, where we had a good meal, and then
sat down to talk and rest. There were twenty-six
men yet on board and we knew they would soon come
to find the first lot, and that we must in some way
get the best of them.
We all went down and broke a large hole in the
boat, and drew it up quite high on the sand, and what
few things were in it I gave to Friday to take to our
tent. While we were at work we heard a gun fired. It
came from the ship. But when the men on the ship
found the boat did not move, they let down a small
boat, and ten men got in it and came to the shore.
When the men came up to where the boat lay, and
saw that there was no one in it, three of them went
up and down the shore, and sent up loud yells to
make their friends hear. But as this did not seem
to do, all but one came on shore, and went off to the
south side of the island and had a long talk. They
came back in a short time, and we thought they
would all go off to the ship, and we would lose them
and the ship. I sent Friday and the mate down a
short way and told them to call, which they did, and
the men ran up and down, to hear where the noise
came from.
In a short time three of the men came close up to
us, and at a sign from me, Friday and the mate shot
at them. One fell dead, the next was hurt, and the
third cried out, "Who are you?"
The mate said: "I am the mate, and you must
yield, or you are all dead men."
He said: "To whom must we yield?"
"To John S. He is here with the king and five
score men, and if you do not yield, you are all lost."
They laid down their arms, and in a short time
they were bound hand and foot. Friday took them
to the cave, where he kept watch all night. We
thought it best to keep them there for a few days,
and gave Friday charge of them, and he took them
food and drink three times a day.
John S. and the mate with those of our prisoners
whom the captain could trust went to the ship in the
small boat. And when they got to the ship, there
were but three men on the deck. One of them was
the man who had been the head of the mutiny, and
John S. and the mate soon put him out of the way.
The rest of the men were glad to be rid of him and
gladly promised to be faithful to the captain. They
put the ship to rights and brought her up to the island
just outside the mouth of the little creek.
When they came up on the shore I was on the top
of the hill, and John S. came up to me and said: "My

friend, there is your ship, for she is yours, we are
yours, and all that is in her is yours."
This was too much for me. I was like one that was
dumb, and I sank faint to the ground. I shed tears
of joy. There was the ship, her sails set, and her
flags thrown out to the wind, and I could now go
home. I gave my friend a hug and told him I would
go with him, for I felt that he had been sent to me
from God.
The captain also made me a present of a whole
outfit of clothes, which I put on. I felt strange and
could scarce get around in them. I thought of poor
Friday the first time he had put on clothes.
Then we began to consult what was to be done
with the five prisoners we had (for all the rest were
freed) and whether we might venture to take them
away with us or no, especially as two of them were in-
corrigible rogues. The captain said that if we did
carry them away, it must be in irons, to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at. And I found him very loth to do that.
Upon this I told him that I would undertake to get
the men to stay. Accordingly, I talked with the men.
I told them that I was quitting the island and that
if the captain took them, he must carry them as
prisoners to be tried for mutiny. They begged to be
spared and to be allowed to remain and take their
chances on the island rather than be taken to Eng-
land to be hanged.
Then I gave them the whole history of the place
and of my coming to it, showed them my fortifica-
tions, the way I made my bread, planted my corn and
cured my grapes. I told them the story also of the
sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected, for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, namely five muskets,
three fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had above
a barrel and a half of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board ship with Friday. I carried on board
for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and my parrot. Also I took the money
which had lain by me so long useless. We prepared
immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night.
The next morning early two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side. They complained of the
other three, and begged to be taken into the ship,
though the captain hanged them immediately for if
they stayed, they would surely be murdered.
Upon this the captain took them on board, after
they made the most solemn promises of amendment.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore
with some things I had begged the captain to give
the men, their chests and clothes being among them.
I also encouraged them by telling them that if it lay
in my way to send any vessel to take them in, I would
not forget them.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December
in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days.
WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world as if I had never been
known there.
I went down into Yorkshire, but my father was
dead, and my mother and all the family except two
of my sisters and two of my brother's children. I re-
solved to go to Lisbon and seek news of my partner

and of my plantation in Brazil. Accordingly I did
so, my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
in all these ramblings and proving a most faithful
servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found the captain of the
ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of
Africa, and who had so befriended me. Through
him I got an account of my plantation and learned
that my partner Mr. Wells was dead. I was able to
prove my claims to the plantation and sold it for
quite a sum of money, and after some wandering
about, I returned to England. There my true friend,
the captain's widow, with whom I had left part of my
funds so long ago, prevailed on me to keep me from
wandering abroad. For a time I settled there and so
I married and had three children, two sons and one
daughter.
But when my wife died, my inclination to go
abroad was so strong that I engaged to go as a
private trader to the East Indies.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the
island. I saw my successors, the Spaniards, and had
the whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left
there. How at first they insulted the poor Spaniards,
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, sepa-
rated, and how at last the Spaniards were obliged
to use violence with them. How they were subjected
to the Spaniards; how honestly the Spaniards used
them; a history as full of variety and wonderful
accidents as my own past. I heard also of their
battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself; and how five of
them made an attempt upon the mainland, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners,
by which at my coming, I found about twenty young
children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days. I left them sup-
plies of all things necessary, particularly arms,
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen I
brought from England with me, namely, a carpenter
and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with
them, reserving to myself the ownership of the
whole. Having settled all things with them and en-
gaged them not to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people,
to the island. And in it, besides other supplies, I
sent seven women, being such as I found proper for
service, or for wives to such as would take them. As
to the Englishmen, I promised to send them some
women from England with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
which I afterwards performed. And the fellows
proved very honest and diligent after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for
them. I sent them also from the Brazils five cows,
some sheep and hogs, which, when I came again,
were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account of how three
hundred Caribbeans came and invaded them, and
ruined their plantations, and how they fought with
the whole number twice, and recovered possession
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island—
all these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own for ten years
more, I may perhaps give a further account of here-
after.

>ecXe\I.L,
\h.
,W/2'}'
Jiunfi lJ
,h. y"'i
i3c<rki
lun t-
i^y
)
By DANIEL DEFOE
An Easy-to-Read Book
Edited by ALTHEA CLINTON
Illustrated by
GEORGE LAWSON
THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
AKRON, OHIO NEW YORK
Publishers for the Children
Copyright MCMXXXIV
by The Saalfield Publishing Company
Made in United States of America
of Robinson Crusoe
CHAPTER I
T WAS born in the town of York in the year of 1632.
J- I was the third son of a man of some wealth, and
was not bred to a trade, for my family and friends
wished that I should learn the law. But as I grew
up, I made up my mind to go to sea. My friends did
all they could to keep me at home, but it was of no
use, and on the first of September, 1651, without a
word of it to my father or mother, I embarked on
a ship bound from Hull to London.
We had scarce left the land when the wind blew
up strong. It kept up for several days, and then a
great storm came on. One night I heard one of the
men cry out that the ship had sprung a leak, and we
could hear it creak and crack from end to end.
We saw a ship a short way off, and gave them a
sign that we were in need of aid. They sent out two
small boats which we got into and made our way to
shore, where the people treated us kindly and gave
us clothes and money.
I ought to have gone home, but I was too proud.
So I made my way to London and from there set put
on a ship bound for trade on the coast of Africa.
This was in truth the only successful voyage I ever
made. The captain was a good honest man and with
his help I made quite a lot of money by trading with
the natives.
On our return to England the captain died, but
I left part of my money in the care of his widow, and
set out for a second trip to the same coast. Our ship
was making its way between the Canary Islands and
the African coast, when we were surprised and taken
captive by a Turkish rover of Sallee.
As I was young and quick, the captain kept me for
his property. He took me to his house to wait on
him and I did not have as hard a time as I expected.
But all the while my mind was bent on how I could
get away. I thought the captain might take me with
him when he went to sea, and thus I would find a
way. But this he did not do.
When I had been with him two years he was not
so strict, but would take me with him when he went
out to fish. One day some guests were to dine with
him, and he sent me out with one of the Moors and a
boy named Xury to catch the fish for dinner. "Now,"
I thought, "this is my chance to get off," for I knew
he kept this boat stocked with provisions.
When we were settled to fish, I stepped up and
took the Moor by surprise and threw him over into
the sea. He was a good swimmer and I knew he
could make it to shore. But when the boy Xury
swore to be true to me, I let him go along.
I set my course southward so as to follow along
the coast. As we had a fair wind we made good
speed, so that by the next day we were quite beyond
the boundary of the Emperor of Morocco. Yet such

was my fear of the Moors that I did not come to
anchor until I had been out five days.
I knew that European ships going to trade on the
Guinea coast always stopped at the Canary Islands
or the Cape de Verde Islands, and that these islands
were not far off the coast. It was my plan to follow
the coast until I came to the cape in the hope that we
would be seen and picked up by one of these ships.
We followed along the coast for days, going on
shore only for water. We saw nothing but unin-
habited country by day and heard nothing but
howlings and roarings of beasts by night. At last, I
thought we must be rounding Cape de Verde, for
some leagues out to sea I could see land, and I judged
that it was the islands. But as yet we had not seen
a ship, and I did not know what course to take from
here. All at once Xury cried, "A ship with a sail!"
How my heart rose with joy!
I saw that it was a large ship, but could not tell
where it was from. They did not see us at first, so
I took a small flag that I had, and made a waft of it,
and shot off my gun for a signal. They did not hear
the gun, but they saw the smoke, and lay by for us to
come up. In less than two hours I brought my boat
alongside.
The ship was from Spain, and bound for South
America. I told them how I had escaped from the
Turk, and the captain took both Xury and me, as
well as all my goods in his ship and offered to carry
us with him to Brazil. Seeing my boat was a good
one, he offered to buy it as well as the boy Xury. I
told him he could have the boat, but that I did not
like to sell Xury as he had helped me to gain my free-
dom. But when the captain promised he would free
him in ten years, I let him have the boy, since Xury
was willing to go.
We had a good voyage to the Brazils and arrived
in the Bay of All Saints twenty-two days after. I can
never forget the generous treatment the captain
gave me. He would take nothing for my passage
and for the boy Xury and the boat and the things in
it he gave me in all two hundred twenty pieces of
eight. And with this stock I went on shore.
For some time I stayed with a good honest man
who was a planter and from him I learned how plant-
ers lived, and how to raise sugar cane and make
sugar. It seemed a pleasant life, and I decided to
use my money to buy land and go into that business.
Accordingly I took out a letter of naturalization
and secured as much new ground as I could buy and
set about laying it out. I had a neighbor, a Mr.
Wells, who was also just starting, and we worked
together.
All went well for four years, our stock increased,
and we were prospering. But more and more I knew
how wrong I had been to sell my boy Xury, for we
wanted nothing so much as some servants to help us
with our work. The other planters round us were
in much the same condition, and one day it was pro-
posed that we make up an expedition to the Guinea
coast to get negroes for our needs. As I had been
there before, the other planters offered to fit out the
ship if I would go to manage the trading.
Accordingly I went on board ship and set sail on
the first of September, 1659, just eight years after
I had left Hull.
WE HAD on board six guns, and a crew of ten
men and five boys. Our stock of goods was toys,
beads, bits of glass, shells, and such odd things, that
we knew we could trade for slaves. We sailed north-
ward and soon lost sight of land.
For two weeks the sea was calm, and the air clear
and hot, and then there came a great change. A gale
sprang up and a fierce storm set in. For three days
we could not steer the ship, and high seas that came
on us took off a man and a boy. In the midst of this,
one of the men cried out, "Land!" and we had no
sooner run out to see than we struck upon sand. The
sea broke over us in such a way that we thought we
would all perish.
There was a long boat on the ship, which the mate
let down, and we all got in, but did not have much
hope, as the sea was so wild and rough. We had gone
but a short way when a great wave rolled up astern
and overset the boat. I was full of dread and fear,
and thought there was no hope, but I kept my head
up and swam as well as I could. Wave after wave
picked me up and carried me towards the shore, and
at last I found myself safe. The first thing I did was
to thank God for my life, and then to look for the
rest of the men. But they must have all gone down,
for I saw them no more.
I knew it would not do for me to sit still and grieve,
but that I must get up and see what kind of a place
I was in, and,, as night was near, how and where I
should sleep. It was too late to see much of the place,
but I found fresh water to drink and then not far off
I found a thick tree like a fir, but full of thorns. I
thought I would make this do to sleep in, for I was
full of fear of wild men and beasts. So, when it was
dark I got up in my tree, where I slept as well as I
think few people could have done in my state.
When I woke up the next morning, it was quite
late, and the sun shone bright and clear. I could see
the ship as it lay, one end out of the sea, not quite a
mile off, and the boat in which we took off was high
on the shore near a mile away. At noon the sea was
calm, and the tide so low that I was able to swim to
the ship. Here I found fresh cause for grief, for I
saw that if we had kept on board we would all have
got safe to land, and I would not have been all that
was left.
You may be sure that my first work was to search
for food, and I found the provisions safe and dry.
Then I went to see what else there was in the ship
that I could take on shore.
There were on the ship some spare yards, a mast or
two, some spars of wood, and some rope and planks.
Lowering some of the spars over the side, I tied them
together and then laid planks across to form a raft
that would carry quite a load. My next care was
what to load it with, and how to protect my goods.
I found three seamen's chests and these I lowered
on the raft. One of them I filled with provisions,
putting in it some bread, rice, cheese, and dry meat.
I also found a large case of rum, but there was no
need to put that in the chest, so I put it by the side
of it.
I also took all the clothes that I thought I would
need for a time, and while rummaging for these, I
found what was a great prize to me, a chest with
some tools in it. I took it down to my raft as it was,
for I did not have time to look through it. I then
brought off some arms and ammunition—three good
guns, a bag of shot, two old swords, a powder horn,
and three kegs of powder.
I put all these things on my raft, and taking some
extra oars, I put to sea. Fortunately it was calm and
all went very well. As I neared the shore I felt a
strong indraft of the water, which took me some dis-
tance below my starting point. From this I hoped
to find some creek there that would serve me as a
harbor. And as I imagined, so it was. I guided my
craft into the little stream and so got it safe to shore.
My next work was to view the country, for I yet
knew not whether I was on a continent or on an
island, or whether or not it was inhabited. Taking
one of the guns, I climbed to the top of a steep hill,
and looked about. Then I knew my fate. I was in
an island, and there was no land to be seen, except
some rocks which lay a great way off, and two islands
smaller than this. I saw good reason to believe that
the island was uninhabited unless by wild beasts,
and as yet I saw none of these. Contented with this,
I came back and began to unload my cargo. I made
I put all these things on my raft, and taking
some extra oars, I put to sea.
^
a kind of hut with the chests and boards, and lay in
it for that night, but I did not sleep well.
The next morning, when the tide went out, I swam
to the ship again, for there were yet many things on
it that I could use, and I felt that I must get them on
shore as quickly as I could, for the sea was so strong
at times that I knew the ship could not stand long.
My raft was so large that I left that on shore, and
thought I would make a small one when I got on
the ship. I did so, and then went to look over the ship
again. I found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, some saws and knives, and, to my great joy,
a stone to grind my tools with. I took all the men's
clothes I could find, a spare topsail, and a bed. These
I put on my raft, and brought them all safely to the
shore.
I then went to work to make a small tent in which
I could stay and sleep, as well as store my goods. I
put up one with the sail and some poles I cut, and
brought in all my things that I thought the sun or
rain would spoil. I then stood all the chests and
casks round it, and made a door of some boards and
a chest. When this was done, I spread out my bed,
put my arms close by, and, for the first time since I
had left the ship, I laid down and slept well.
Every day after this as long as the ship stood, I
went on board and brought away what I could.
Among other things I brought off were some knives
and forks, razors, a pair of scissors, and some books.
One day I found some gold, and I made up my mind
to throw it in the sea as worthless, but then I thought,
I may need this some time, so I put it in a piece of
sail, and laid it by in the tent.
The last trip I made, the wind blew hard and drove
me out from the shore. I was in fear that I would
not reach it, but by hard work and with the aid of
the tide, I got on land all safely, and I put up all my
goods, for I knew there would be a storm.
It blew hard all night, and the next morning I saw
that the ship was gone. I felt sad, as though I had
lost a friend.
THE place where I now had my tent was too low
and wet, so I set out to find a better place. On the
side of a hill I found a grassy level with a steep rock
rising behind it. In the rock there was a hollow
place like the door to a cave. I resolved to pitch my
tent just in front of this hollow.
But before I set up my tent, I drove stout stakes in
a semicircle about the place ten yards from the rock,
and thus made a strong fence that would keep out
.^Wi

both man and beast. I made my tent double, for I
knew the rain in these parts was heavy. I first put
up a small tent, then over that a larger one. After
I had brought all my goods in, I closed the fence en-
tirely, and used a ladder to go over the top, drawing
it in after me. Later I enlarged the hollow to serve
as my kitchen and store-room. However, all this
took months of time and much hard work, being a
full year and a half before all was done. And mean-
while I did many other things.
I went out at least once a day with my gun to see
what I could kill that would be fit for food, as I did
not want to eat up all my bread from the ship. I
found flocks of wild pigeons, as well as wild goats
and turtles.
I did not tell you of the two cats that I brought in
my arms from the ship, nor of the dog who swam to
the shore at the same time. My dog always went
hunting with me and was my friend and companion
for years.
As the days went by, I found I must make a note
of time, or I should lose sight of the days and years.
So I made a cross out of some posts and set it up at
the place where I came ashore. On it I cut with my
knife, "I came on shore here on the 30th of Septem-
ber, 1659." Upon the sides of this post I cut every
day a notch, and every seventh notch was as long
again as the rest, and every first day of the month
as long again as that long one. Thus I kept my
calendar.
The next thing for me to do was to make a chair to
sit on, and a table to eat from. These I made out
of the short boards I had brought on the raft from
the ship.
When I was in need of a board for other things, I
had to cut down a tree and hew it flat on both sides
with my ax, then dub it smooth with my adz. I
wrought out some boards in this way and made some
large shelves in my cave, and laid all my tools and
nails and such things in order on them.
Among the books I brought from the ship was a
lot of blank books, pens, and some ink. I knew I
could not make more ink when this was gone, but
I made up my mind that while I had it, I would write
down each night all that I saw, and what took place
through the day, as well as the good and bad
thoughts of the day. This gave me great peace of
mind. My book grew to be like a friend I could talk
to, and I soon saw that we all have more cause for joy
and grief, if we will but look in the right light on
what is sent us.
Looking for a bag to hold some of my powder, I
found one that had had grain in it, but now I saw
nothing left but some dust and husks. These I shook
out just outside my fortification. About a month
later, I saw a few stalks of green shooting out of the
ground, but did not know what they were. I was
astonished when a little later I saw that they were
stalks of barley and rice. You may be sure that I
saved the grain when it was ripe, determined to try
to grow some for my use.
The day after my wall was finished, I felt a great
I was astonished when a little later, I saw
they were stalks of barley and rice.
A
shock. The earth shook so hard that I thought my
tent would fall in. One of the posts gave way, and
I was in great fear. I ran out to see what was the
cause of this. I found the ground loose, and the dirt
and stones thrown up all round. Then I knew it was
an earthquake.
The rain came on for a few days and I felt cold,
which I thought strange, for as near as I could make
out, the island was not far from the equator. The
next day I had a hard chill, and then a great heat
with faint sweats, and for two weeks I was quite ill.
I was too weak to go out to get a drink, and was
almost dead with thirst.
One night I had a strange dream. I saw a great
black cloud, and back of it a bright flame, which
shone on the ground, and a man came out of the
cloud. His face shone like fire, and he held a spear
in his hand. The earth shook and the air was full of
fire. The man said to me: "Thou wilt not pray, nor
turn and love me; now thou shalt die," and he took
up his spear as if he meant to kill me. I gave a cry
and a start, which woke me up.
This led me to think of my sins, of my friends at
home, and that it was all my own self-will that had
brought me here lone and sick. And yet God had
been so good to me to save my life. I thought, "He
sees all things; He can cure me; I will pray to Him
and learn to love Him."
The next day I was quite weak and ill at ease, but
my fit did not come on. I was able to get some water.
But my dream was in my mind, and I made a search
for the Bibles I had brought from the ship, and found
them in one of the chests. The first words that
I read were, "Call on me; I will help thee." And I
knelt down and sent up the cry, "Son of God, be with
me; help me to love Thee and teach me to pray."
This was the first time since a child that I knelt
down to pray to God with a sense that He was near,
and that He would hear and help me. My mind was
now at ease, and that night I lay down and slept well,
and when I woke the next morning, I felt better.
After that I read my book night and morning, and I
soon found that I had a dear Friend, to whom I could
go and get peace.
When the rain was gone, and I grew strong, I de-
cided to make a tour of the island to see if I could
find a good place to go in case of another earthquake,
as well as to see what I could find to eat. I had long
wanted to do it, but the need to finish my fortification
and care for my goods had prevented it until now.
It was the fifteenth of July that I began my survey
of the island. I went up the creek first, where, as I
have said, I brought my raft ashore. I found that
the tide did not flow more than two miles up it, and
above that it was no more than a little brook of run-
ning water, very fresh and good.
On the bank of the brook, I found many pleasant
meadows covered with grass, and on the higher part
of them, where I supposed the water never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco. There were
various other plants which I had no notion of. ^ I
searched for cassava root from which the Indians in
this climate made bread, but found none. However,
I saw several sugar canes, but wild and imperfect
from want of cultivation.
The next day, I went up the same way again, and
going farther, I found the country became more
woody. In this part I found different fruits. There
was an abundance of melons upon the ground, and
grapes hanging among the trees, and these were just
now in their prime, very ripe and rich.
I spent all that evening there, and that night for
the first time I slept away from my fortification. I
did as on that first night on the island; I climbed into
a tree and slept very well.
The next morning I proceeded upon my discovery,
going near four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge
of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west,
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out
of the side of the hill, ran the other way, that is, due
east. The country appeared so fresh, so green, so
flourishing, that it looked like a planted garden.
I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange, and
lemon, and citron trees; but all wild and very few
bearing fruit, at least not then. However, the green
limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat,
but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water, which made it very cool and
refreshing. I resolved to lay up a store of grapes as
well as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was then approaching.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this place,
I traveled home carrying with me what I could, and
resolving to bring some bags and carry more home.
But before I got there the grapes were spoiled, for
they were crushed by their own weight. So when I
went back the next day, I gathered a large quantity
of the grapes and hung them upon the out-branches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun.

But of the limes and lemons, I carried baek as many
as I could stand under.
I was so enamored of this place that I spent much
of my time there for the remaining part of the
month of July. I built me a kind of bower there, sur-
rounded with a strong fence, being a double hedge
as high as I could reach, well staked and filled be-
tween with brushwood. In the middle I made a tent
of sail cloth. And here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three nights together, always going over the
fence with a ladder. So now I fancied I had my
country house and my seacoast house.
About the beginning of August, I had finished
my bower and began to enjoy myself. I found the
grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun. I had
above two hundred large bunches. So I began to
take them down from the trees. And it was very
happy that I did so, for no sooner had I taken them
all down, and carried most of them home to my cave,
but it began to rain. And it rained more or less,
every day till the middle of October, and sometimes
I could not stir out of my cave for several days.
During this time I busied myself enlarging my
cave, and so passed the anniversary of my landing
on the island. This day, September thirtieth, I kept
as a solemn fast, confessing my sins, and praying
God for mercy.
A LITTLE after this my ink began to fail me, and
so I used it more sparingly, and wrote down only
the most remarkable events.
Now I thought it proper to sow the barley and rice
I had saved. I had made a wooden spade and so dug
up a piece of ground as well as I could. I sowed only
half the seed at first and was glad I did. For the
season was too dry. The rest I sowed in February
and had a very good crop.
While the grain was growing, I made a trip to my
bower and discovered that the stakes I had used for
my fence had all shot out green branches, much as
willows would do. This made me resolve to make a
hedge of this sort around my first home for it would
make a fine concealment, and this I did.
I found the seasons of the year might be divided
into the rainy and dry seasons. After I found the ill
effects of being out in the rain, I spent as much of
that time indoors as possible. I busied myself mak-
ing baskets from the twigs of the trees of which I
made my hedge. In time I grew to have some skill.
I made another trip over the island and this time
came in view of the sea on the west. It was a very
clear day, and I could see land at a very great dis-
tance. I concluded it must be some part of the
mainland of America.
On this trip I caught a parrot and brought it home
with me and after great pains I taught it to speak.
When the second anniversary of my arrival on the
island came, I kept it in the same solemn manner as
the first. I spent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful
mercies which attended my solitary condition.
Upon my second harvest, I began to think I would
have to have some way to grind my grain and make
my bread.
First, I had to have some pots or jars to keep my
meal in. I thought of the clay dish I had already
made for my lamp, and went to work to make some-
thing of the same sort. You would laugh at the odd
things I made; how some of them fell in and some
fell out, and some would crack with the heat of the
sun, but I kept on, and at last I had two large pots to
keep my meal in.
Though these were quite dry and hard, I saw that
they were not strong, and that I could not bake or
cook in them. One day a piece fell in the fire, and
when I took it out, I found it was burnt as hard as
stone, and as red as a tile. I now made up my mind
to. burn all my pots, and to make a flat dish. How
glad I was, for now I could bake, and boil meat and
make broth as well.
J now sought means to grind my grain. I thought
I would stamp or beat it out. I spent a great deal of
time to find a stone, but as I could not get one, I took
a great block of hard wood, and with my ax and knife
cut a deep hole in it. I put my grain in this hole, and
with a short, thick piece of wood beat it out fine.

The next thing was a sieve to part my meal from
the husk. This put a stop to my work for some
weeks; but one day I found a piece of thin cloth which
I had brought from the ship. With this I made three
small sieves, and these I made last for some years.
The baking was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern my-
self much about it, but for an oven I was in much
need. At length I found a way for that.
I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep, that is to say about two feet in diameter, and
not above nine inches deep. These I burned in the
fire, and laid them by. When I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved
with some tiles. When the firewood was burned
into live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth,
so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till
the hearth was very hot. Then sweeping away all
the embers, I set down my loaves and put an earthen
pot over them. Then I drew the embers all round
the outside of the pot. And thus I baked my barley-
loaves.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took
me the most part of the third year, for I had all my
other work to keep up too.
All this while you may be sure my thoughts ran
upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island, and I thought I would go
and look at our ship's boat, which had been blown
up on the shore a great way off. But I could no more
move it than I could move the island. However, this
made me think that I might make myself a boat or
canoe by hollowing out a tree.
Accordingly I set to work and cut down a tree,
hollowed it and shaped it with my ax and adz. Many
a weary stroke it cost me too, but I was full of hope
and didn't mind. But when I tried to get it to the
water, I found it so large that do what I would, I
could not move it. And now I saw the folly of begin-
ning a work before we count the cost.
In the middle of the work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with
the same devotion and with as much comfort as ever
before.
I HAD now been here so long that many things
which I brought on shore were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent. My ink had
been gone for some time, all but a very little, which
I eked out with water till it was so pale it scarce left
any appearance of black upon the paper. My clothes
began to wear out too, and the weather was so hot
that I could not go quite naked, for the sun blistered
my skin.
I had saved the skins of all the goats I killed, and
now I found them very useful. The first thing I
made of these was a great cap for my head, with the
hair on the outside to shoot off the rain. And after
this I made me a suit of clothes, that is to say, a
waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, both loose,
for they were rather to keep me cool than to keep
me warm.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains
to make an umbrella. The main difficulty I found
was to make it let down. However, at last I made
one to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair
upward to keep off the rains as well as the heat. Had
anyone been there to see me when I went out, I must
either have frightened them or caused them to
laugh.
After this, I cannot say that anything unusual
happened for the next five years, except that I made
another boat. This time I chose a smaller tree,
growing closer to the water. When the boat was
finished, I dug a canal to bring the water to it and so
launched it.
I fitted up a mast and made a sail. Then I made
a place to store my provisions and ammunition, fixed
my umbrella in the stern to keep off the heat of the
sun, and I was ready to go for a trip around the
island.

Though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks to lie out about two leagues into the
sea, so I had to go a long way out to double the point.
Here I was caught by a strong current and swept far
out from the island. I was in the greatest danger of
being carried out to sea, but after much hard work
I succeeded in getting to the shore again, and found
myself on the north end of the island, that is, the
other end from where I had my home. There was
too much danger for me to think of attempting to go
back by boat, so I found a snug cove for my craft,
and, taking my umbrella, went back home on foot.
I would have been glad to have my boat on my side
of the island, but I knew I could not, so I contented
myself without it. But I used to visit it frequently,
and I kept all things about her in very good order.
Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but
scarce ever above a stone's throw from the shore.
But now I come to a new scene in my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to be seen in the sand. I went back to my tent
as fast as I could, and for three days kept close in-
doors. But the want of food drove me out, and I
took a look all round and saw no one, or other signs
of them. So I gradually resumed my old ways of
living, though never with the old sense of security.
Two or three years more went by and I saw no
signs of men, and thought that the print of a man's
foot was not so great a thing to fear. But one day
I went to the top of a hill to look at the sea, and I
thought I saw a boat, but it was so far off that it did
not look like more than a speck. I went down the
hill on the other side to a part of the island where I
had not been, and saw close to the edge of the shore
a pit where a fire had been made, and all round were
strewn skulls, hands and feet, and burnt bones of
men. At the sight of these I grew sick, and went up
the hill with all the speed I could, and when I came
to my tent burst into a flood of tears.
Now I had the care of my safety upon my hands
more than that of my food. I did not make any fire
at my home, but did all that in the woods, and while I
was cutting down some wood, I discovered a natural
cave. Here I brought some ammunition and a gun
and stored some provisions, and felt that I had found
a place where I could hide in time of danger.
And now I came to my twenty-third year on the
island, and was so used to the place and to the way
of living, that could I have enjoyed the certainty that
no savages would come to the place, I could have
been content to have stayed there to the end of my
days. I had my goats, my Polls, and my cats. These
were not the original two. They had multiplied till
I had so many that I had chased away all but these
two. My dog had died, having lived with me sixteen
years. It was now the month of December, and my
harvest time. Going out early one morning, before
daylight, I was surprised to see the light of a fire
upon the shore towards the end where the savages
had been before, but on my side. I ran back to the
top of the hill, and laid down flat, and took a good
look at the place where it came from.
I saw that there was quite a large fire, with nine
men round it. There were two small boats on the
shore, in which they had come. I watched and as
soon as the tide went out, they all got in the boats
and went off.
I went back to my farm and took up all that grew
round my place that would lead them to think I was
there, and made it look as wild as possible. And now
I was glad of my hedge, for it completely hid my
fortification and tent. For a long time I did not do
much on my farm, and kept a close watch for near a
year for the men.
One night in the spring the wind blew hard, and I
knew we should have a storm. I put up all my things
for the night, and sat down in my tent to read God's
word, when I heard a gun, and in a short time I heard
it once more. Then I knew that it came from some
ship at sea in need of aid. I ran to the top of the hill
and built a large fire as a signal. But the wind blew
so hard I could hardly keep it up, and it was so dark
I could not see a thing. In the morning, I saw that
a ship was stuck on the same sand where our ship
had been lost.
Now for the first time in years I got my boat out
and set sail for the ship. I did not think of the wild
men, for I wanted to save the lives of those who
might be on board. In less than two hours I came
up to it. But a dog was all that was left alive on
board. I fed him and put him in my boat and brought
him off with me when I went.
I searched the ship and brought off what I could
get in my boat. There were two chests, a good spy-
glass, three large flasks, a pair of tongs, a small pot,
and some good shirts.
When I came to look in the chests, I found in one
of them three large bags of gold. I laid it by with
the rest in hopes that at some time I might be able
to use it.
AFTER this I reposed myself and continued in my
- old way of living for nearly two years more.
Then one morning- going out early, I saw five small
boats on the shore, quite close by, and near them full
three score black men.
I took my gun and my glass, and went to the top
of the hill above my home to watch. I saw they had
a fire and some kind of meat, but I could not tell what
it was. They all sat down as I supposed to eat.
When they were through, some of them got up and
danced.
While I was watching them, I saw two miserable
wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems,
they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I saw one of them knocked down, and
the other victim was left standing while the savages
attended to the first. In that very moment this poor
wretch, seeing himself left free for a moment,
started away and ran along the sands directly to-
wards my habitation.
I was dreadfully frightened, until I saw that only
three of the savages pursued him, and that he was
gaining ground on them rapidly. The creek was be-
tween them and my castle. When the escaping
savage came thither, he plunged in, swam through
in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and
ran on swiftly. When the pursuers came to it, one
turned back. The other two swam through, but took
nearly twice as long-.
Now it came to me that I should save the poor
savage, and perhaps get a servant and companion
for myself. Accordingly I took a short cut down the
hill and came in between the pursued and the pur-
suers.
I hallooed to him that fled and motioned for him
to come back to me. In the meantime, I slowly ad-
vanced towards the two that followed. Then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my gun. I was loth to fire, because
I would not have the rest hear, though at that dis-
tance, and being out of sight, they would not have
known what it was. But as I advanced toward the
other, I saw he had a bow and arrow, and was pre-
paring to shoot me. So I was compelled to fire at
him, and killed him at once.
The fire and noise of my gun gave the poor run-
away such a fright that he could not move. I
beckoned him again and again to come to me, and
gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could
think of; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowl-
edgment for my saving his life. I smiled to him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned him to come still
nearer. At length he came close to me, and then he
kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his
head upon the ground, and taking me by the foot,
set my foot upon his head. This, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave forever.
Taking me by the foot, he set my foot upon his head.
This was a token of swearing to be my slave forever.
I took him up and made much of him, and beckoned
him to follow me. Upon this he signed to me that he
should bury the dead savages in the sand so that
they might not be seen by the rest if they should
follow. I made signs for him to do so. He fell to
work and with his hands scraped holes big enough
to bury them in. And I believe he had buried them
both in a quarter of an hour.
Then calling him away, I took him, not to my
castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part
of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch
of raisins to eat, and a draught of water. Having
refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie down
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice-straw and a blanket, which I used to
sleep upon sometimes. So the poor creature lay
down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead very high and large. The
color of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny,
a kind of a dun olive color, that had in it something
very agreeable, though not very easy to describe.
His face was round and plump; his nose small, not
flat like the negroes; he had a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth were well set, and white as
ivory.
I stayed there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some clothes; at which
he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we
went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, making signs to me
that we should dig them up again, and eat them. At
this I appeared very angry, and beckoned to him to
come away; which he did immediately, with great
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill,
to see if his enemies were gone. Pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, with-
out any search after them.
As I could not tell what his name was, I decided
to call my savage Friday, from the day on which I
had saved his life. I made him understand that was
his name, and taught him to say master and that he
was to call me so.
As soon as we came back to our castle, I fell to
work to make clothes for my man Friday. I gave
him a pair of linen drawers out of the chest I had
found on the wreck, and made him a coat and cap
out of goat's skin. It is true he went awkwardly in
these things at first, but at length he took to them
very well.
I was greatly delighted with Friday, and made it
my business to teach him everything that was proper
to make him useful, handy, and helpful. I began
now to consider that, having two mouths to feed in-
stead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn. So I
marked out a larger piece of land, in which Friday
not only worked very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully. He let me know that he
thought I had much more labor put upon me on
his account than I had for myself, and that he
would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and
understand the names of almost everything I had
occasion to call for, and to talk a great deal to me.
His simple honesty appeared more and more every
day, and I began to really love him. And on his side,
I believe he loved me more than he had ever loved
anything before.
I described to him the country of Europe, and how
we lived, and how we worshipped God, how we be-
haved to one another, and how we traded in ships to
all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him
the ruins of the boat which we had lost when we
escaped. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood mus-
ing a great while. At last he said, "Me see such a
boat like come to place at my nation. We save white
mans from drown." On his fingers he told me there
were seventeen men, and added, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."
It occurred to me that these men might belong to
the ship that was cast away in sight of my island. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them
and eat them. He said, "No, they make brother with
them. They no eat mans but when make the war
fight." Then he said they had learned much from
the bearded men.
This gave me the idea that Friday and I might go
to the mainland and bring these men back with us.
I asked him, and he said we could if we had a big
enough boat. I showed him the boat I had made, but
he shook his head and said no; that we would need
"two canoe," by which I finally understood that we
would need one twice as large.
We found a tree that Friday thought would do,
and set to work to make one. We both took a great
deal of pains to make the boat. When it was through
I felt proud of it, and had no doubt that it would sail
well, and began to prepare all things for our voyage.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my captivity in this place, and Friday had
been with me near three years.
ONE day I sent Friday to the shore to see if he
could find one of the large crabs there. He had
not been gone long when I saw him on the run, and
heard him cry: ''Oh sir! Oh sir! Oh sad! Oh bad!''
"What is it, Friday?" I asked when he came up.
"Oh! there one, two, three boats! One, two,
three!"
I took my glass and went up on the side of the hill.
From there I saw that there were three boats, and
more than a score of men, who had just come on land,
and brought with them three men bound hand and
foot. They had come to hold one of their feasts. I
made up my mind I would put a stop to this. I told
Friday to come and to keep close to me.
When I came to the skirt of the wood next to them,
I told Friday to go to a large tree and look, and bring
me word if he could see what they were at. He came
back and said that they had made a fire, and had
three bound men close by, and that one of them was
a white man. He thought one of the three was
already dead.
I went to a place near by where I could see all they
did. I found that they had sent two of their men to
kill the white man, and would soon cook and eat him
up like the rest. I knew I had no time to lose. I said
to Friday, "Do as I bid you, and just as you see me
do. Do not fail."

He said, "Yes," and when I gave the word "Fire!"
he shot at them the same time as I did.
The men ran all sorts of ways, with loud yells and
cries of fright, and went for their boats. Then Fri-
day and I shot at them once more. I went up to the
poor white man, and cut the bands and told him to
get up. But he was too weak to speak or stand.
While I was with him, Friday went to look at the
poor wretch who lay bound in a boat the men had
left in their fright. He cut him loose, and with a
groan he sat up. When Friday saw his face, he took
him in his arms and gave him a hug and a kiss. Then
he wrung his hands and beat his own face and head
like a madman. For a long while he did not speak,
and then he told me that he was this man's son.
Now that these poor men were free, I thought we
must get them to our tent, as it was quite late in the
day. I gave them some cakes of bread I had with
me. I saw Friday run off as swift as a deer, but in a
short time he came back with a jug. He had gone
way back to our farm for it, that he might give them
a fresh drink from our spring.
The men by this time were quite at ease, but as
they could not walk, Friday and I made a sort of
hand barrow, and took them to my place.
I sent Friday back for our arms, and all the things
that we had left on the shore. In the meantime I cut
up a young kid and went to work to boil or stew some
of it, and I made them both a good dish of broth,
with some rice in it.
Friday soon came back with the things I had sent
him for, and we had our meal. And then I told him
to put the men to bed, and stay with them for the
night, for they might want him.
The next morning I had a long talk with the men.
Friday's father had such a queer name that I called
him Jack. The white man, whom I shall call Frank,
told me that he had come from Spain and that he
with some others had been in the ship wrecked off
my island. They went in the small boat to the main-
land, where they were living with the natives.
Frank said that he thought if we went to these
people, the white men would be glad to come back
with me and serve me. This I decided to do.
However, we thought it best to prepare tents for
them and to increase our supplies first. And for a
year and a half we did nothing but work on the farm.
Then when I felt that I had what would keep us all,
I sent Frank and Jack out in a boat to see if they
could find the men and bring them back to me.
THEY had been gone eight days, when one morn-
ing Friday came running in to me and cried, "Oh,
sir! they are come, they are come!"
I thought our men had come, and ran out with all
speed. But I was surprised when presently I saw a
boat with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, about a league
and a half from shore. I knew at once that it was
not our friends.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
and I fetched my glass and went up on the hill to see
what I could. I had scarce set my foot on the hill
when I saw a ship lying at anchor not above a league
and a half from the shore and to the south, southeast.
It appeared plainly to be an English ship". However,
I thought I had best watch them awhile.
Soon I saw them run their boat on shore and get
out. There were in all eleven men, three of whom
were unarmed and, as I thought, bound. The first
four or five of them who jumped ashore took these
men out as prisoners. I was confounded at the sight,
especially as I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, to strike one of the poor men.
I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the sav-
age that was with him.
After a time I saw the men scatter along the shore
as if they wanted to see the country, and I then saw
that the three other men were at liberty to go too.
However, they but sat down upon the ground and
looked very pensive.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came ashore and they carelessly stayed till
their boat was aground. When they found they
could not launch it, they straggled off and lay down

in the woods to wait for high tide again, and soon
lay down and went to sleep.
I now went to my tent, took all the arms I thought
Friday and I could carry and went back to the men
who had been prisoners. They were awake, being
too worried to sleep. "Sirs," I said, "why are you
here, and who are you?"
One man spoke, and said: "My name is John
Smith. We have come from Hull, and that is my
ship out there. We were bound to the South Sea
isles, and on the way out, some of my crew mutinied
and put me in chains. And now they have thrust me,
with my mate and this man, out here to die. They
mean to go back to the ship, and make the rest go
with them where they please."
"Have they fire-arms?" I asked.
"They have two guns which they have left in the
boat."
"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
that they are all asleep now. It will not be a hard
task to kill them all."
I gave each of the three men a gun, and we went
up near a grove where five of the villains were sleep-
ing. One of our men made a slight noise, which
woke two of them, and they spoke to the rest, at
which they made a spring for us. I told our men to
fire. They did so, and we shot two of them, who were
the worst of the lot. The other three begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their
lives if they would swear to be faithful to him and
help him recover the ship. This they promised, but
I made him keep them bound while they were on the
island. While this was going on, I sent Friday to
bring away the oars and sails from the boat. Then
the three other men came straggling up and seeing
what had happened, they also submitted and were
bound also.
I sent the prisoners to my cave and left Friday to
guard them, while I took the captain and the two
men to my tent, where we had a good meal, and then
sat down to talk and rest. There were twenty-six
men yet on board and we knew they would soon come
to find the first lot, and that we must in some way
get the best of them.
We all went down and broke a large hole in the
boat, and drew it up quite high on the sand, and what
few things were in it I gave to Friday to take to our
tent. While we were at work we heard a gun fired. It
came from the ship. But when the men on the ship
found the boat did not move, they let down a small
boat, and ten men got in it and came to the shore.
When the men came up to where the boat lay, and
saw that there was no one in it, three of them went
up and down the shore, and sent up loud yells to
make their friends hear. But as this did not seem
to do, all but one came on shore, and went off to the
south side of the island and had a long talk. They
came back in a short time, and we thought they
would all go off to the ship, and we would lose them
and the ship. I sent Friday and the mate down a
short way and told them to call, which they did, and
the men ran up and down, to hear where the noise
came from.
In a short time three of the men came close up to
us, and at a sign from me, Friday and the mate shot
at them. One fell dead, the next was hurt, and the
third cried out, "Who are you?"
The mate said: "I am the mate, and you must
yield, or you are all dead men."
He said: "To whom must we yield?"
"To John S. He is here with the king and five
score men, and if you do not yield, you are all lost."
They laid down their arms, and in a short time
they were bound hand and foot. Friday took them
to the cave, where he kept watch all night. We
thought it best to keep them there for a few days,
and gave Friday charge of them, and he took them
food and drink three times a day.
John S. and the mate with those of our prisoners
whom the captain could trust went to the ship in the
small boat. And when they got to the ship, there
were but three men on the deck. One of them was
the man who had been the head of the mutiny, and
John S. and the mate soon put him out of the way.
The rest of the men were glad to be rid of him and
gladly promised to be faithful to the captain. They
put the ship to rights and brought her up to the island
just outside the mouth of the little creek.
When they came up on the shore I was on the top
of the hill, and John S. came up to me and said: "My

friend, there is your ship, for she is yours, we are
yours, and all that is in her is yours."
This was too much for me. I was like one that was
dumb, and I sank faint to the ground. I shed tears
of joy. There was the ship, her sails set, and her
flags thrown out to the wind, and I could now go
home. I gave my friend a hug and told him I would
go with him, for I felt that he had been sent to me
from God.
The captain also made me a present of a whole
outfit of clothes, which I put on. I felt strange and
could scarce get around in them. I thought of poor
Friday the first time he had put on clothes.
Then we began to consult what was to be done
with the five prisoners we had (for all the rest were
freed) and whether we might venture to take them
away with us or no, especially as two of them were in-
corrigible rogues. The captain said that if we did
carry them away, it must be in irons, to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at. And I found him very loth to do that.
Upon this I told him that I would undertake to get
the men to stay. Accordingly, I talked with the men.
I told them that I was quitting the island and that
if the captain took them, he must carry them as
prisoners to be tried for mutiny. They begged to be
spared and to be allowed to remain and take their
chances on the island rather than be taken to Eng-
land to be hanged.
Then I gave them the whole history of the place
and of my coming to it, showed them my fortifica-
tions, the way I made my bread, planted my corn and
cured my grapes. I told them the story also of the
sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected, for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, namely five muskets,
three fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had above
a barrel and a half of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board ship with Friday. I carried on board
for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and my parrot. Also I took the money
which had lain by me so long useless. We prepared
immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night.
The next morning early two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side. They complained of the
other three, and begged to be taken into the ship,
though the captain hanged them immediately for if
they stayed, they would surely be murdered.
Upon this the captain took them on board, after
they made the most solemn promises of amendment.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore
with some things I had begged the captain to give
the men, their chests and clothes being among them.
I also encouraged them by telling them that if it lay
in my way to send any vessel to take them in, I would
not forget them.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December
in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days.
WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world as if I had never been
known there.
I went down into Yorkshire, but my father was
dead, and my mother and all the family except two
of my sisters and two of my brother's children. I re-
solved to go to Lisbon and seek news of my partner

and of my plantation in Brazil. Accordingly I did
so, my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
in all these ramblings and proving a most faithful
servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found the captain of the
ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of
Africa, and who had so befriended me. Through
him I got an account of my plantation and learned
that my partner Mr. Wells was dead. I was able to
prove my claims to the plantation and sold it for
quite a sum of money, and after some wandering
about, I returned to England. There my true friend,
the captain's widow, with whom I had left part of my
funds so long ago, prevailed on me to keep me from
wandering abroad. For a time I settled there and so
I married and had three children, two sons and one
daughter.
But when my wife died, my inclination to go
abroad was so strong that I engaged to go as a
private trader to the East Indies.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the
island. I saw my successors, the Spaniards, and had
the whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left
there. How at first they insulted the poor Spaniards,
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, sepa-
rated, and how at last the Spaniards were obliged
to use violence with them. How they were subjected
to the Spaniards; how honestly the Spaniards used
them; a history as full of variety and wonderful
accidents as my own past. I heard also of their
battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself; and how five of
them made an attempt upon the mainland, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners,
by which at my coming, I found about twenty young
children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days. I left them sup-
plies of all things necessary, particularly arms,
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen I
brought from England with me, namely, a carpenter
and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with
them, reserving to myself the ownership of the
whole. Having settled all things with them and en-
gaged them not to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people,
to the island. And in it, besides other supplies, I
sent seven women, being such as I found proper for
service, or for wives to such as would take them. As
to the Englishmen, I promised to send them some
women from England with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
which I afterwards performed. And the fellows
proved very honest and diligent after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for
them. I sent them also from the Brazils five cows,
some sheep and hogs, which, when I came again,
were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account of how three
hundred Caribbeans came and invaded them, and
ruined their plantations, and how they fought with
the whole number twice, and recovered possession
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island—
all these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own for ten years
more, I may perhaps give a further account of here-
after.

\h.
,W/2'}'
Jiunfi lJ
,h. y"'i
i3c<rki
lun t-
i^y
)
