THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER:,
WHO LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALL ALONE IN
AN UNINHABITED ISLAND, ON THE COAST OF AMERICA,
NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE GREAT RIVER OROONOQUE.
WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS
ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED AT THE ftojjoijrsplfiic
ANDSOLD B Y
J. WAUTIB, No. 169, PICCADILLY, OPPOSITE OLD BOKO STMKT.
M.DCC.XC.
ADVERTISEMENT
BY THE PUBLISHER.
FEW Writers have sufferedmore
Jeverely by Abridgers, than Mr. Daniel De Foe.
Thefe lawlefs banditti, tubeare constantlyemployed
in making predatory incur/ions into the territories of
genius, have ravaged his mojl celebrated Work, THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, with a
barbarous and undijcriminating ferocity. Not
content with conjlantly ujhering it into the world
in a garb more worthy of a Grub-Jlreet production,
than a work on which the great Roujfeau has be-
Jlowed the highejl encomiums; they have moder-
nifed it; that is, divestedit of its Jimplicity,—
Jlruck out every thing moral, useful,and imprej-
Jtvef—presentingnothing but a bare exterior; to~
tally rejecting thofe excellent philosophical and reli-
gious applications, every-where interwoven with
thejlory.
To restoreto our Author what has been thus un-
jujtly ravi/ked from him, and to give his principal
5 - produc-
( 2 )
productions that refpeclable appearance fo juftfy
their due, has been the chief object in publishingthis
Selection. The favourable reception of a former
edition, withall its imperfections, fully jujlif.es the
Publisherin prefenting, for public patronage, an-
other, lefs exceptionable, and more enlarged and cor-
rect • highly embellishedby extrinjic decorations,—-
executed in a manner not unworthy of the Work it- '("
Alf,nor of the age in which we live.
The PubliJIier has chosento adopt the term SE-' »«
LECTIOK, as giving a dijlinguifhing character, and '• [
exprejfmg, at the fame time, the nature of this edi~ ^
lion; the third volumebeing, in fact, a collection a|[piij)
of moral and religious Jays,on various subjects; jy
which, however, are fo judicioujly joined to the main
fuperjlrutture, that they may befaid to be onlyparts
of a COMPLETE WHOLE,—the wings, porticos, and
columns of a noblt edif.ce. ,
As to the infertion of that excellent poetical composition,THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN, (which
fertainly has no suchconnexion or dependence) the
merit of the thing mujljlandfor its apology. The
Publiflier frankly owns he has no other to offer:—
The candid may accept it:—an admirer of keen and
genuine satire,will, perhaps, think it hardly ne-
tcflary.
THE
PREFACE.
T F ever the flory of any private man's ad-
ventures in the world, were worth mak-
ing public, and were acceptable when pub-
limed, the Editor of this account thinks
this will be fb.
The wonders of this man's life, exceed
all that, he thinks, are to be found extant;
the life of one man being fcarce capable of
greater variety.
The flory is told with modesty, with fe-
rioufnefs, and with a religious application
of events to the ufes to which wife men
always
PREFACE.
always apply them, viz. to the intrusion of others by example, and to juftify and
honour the wifdom of Providence in all
the variety of our circumftances, let them
happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just hiftory of faft; neither is there any appear-
ance of fiction in it. However this may be,
for all fuch things are disputed, he is of
opinion that the improvement of it, as well
to the diversion, as to the inflrudKon of the
Reader, will be the fame; and as fuch, he
thinks, without farther compliment to the
world, he does them a great fervice in the
publication.
THE
THE LIFE
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who fettled first at
Hull. He got a good estate by merchandize, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whofe relations
were named Robinfon, a very good family in that
country, and from whom I was called Robinfon
Kreutznaer; but by the ufual corruption of words in
England, we are now called, nay we call ourfelves,
and write our name Crufoe; and fo my companions
always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieute-
nant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
formerly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk, againft the
Spaniards. What became of my fecond brother, I
never knew, any more than my father and mother did
know what was become of me.
VOL. I. B Being
2 ADVENTURES OF
Being the third fon of the family, and not bred t»
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My father, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent fhare of learning, as far as
houfe education and a country free-fchool generally go,
and defigned me for the law: but I would be fatisfied
with nothing but going to fea; and my inclination to
this led me fo ftrongly againft the will, nay the com-
mands of my father, and againft all the entreaties and
perfuafions of my mother and other friends, that there
feemed to be something fatal in that propenfion of na-
ture, tending directly to the life of mifery which was
to befal me.
My father, a wife and grave man, gave me ferious
and excellent counfel againft what he forefaw was my
defign. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expoftulated
very warmly with me upon this fubjeft: he afked me
what reafons, more than a mere wandering inclina-
tion, I had for leaving his houfe, and my native coun-
try, where I might be well introduced, and had a pro-
fpeft of railing my fortune by application and industry, with a life of eafe and pleafure. He told me it was for
men of defperate fortunes, on one hand, or of afpiring,
fuperior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad upon
adventures, to rife by enterprife, and make themfelves
famous in .undertakings of a nature out of the common
road; that thefe things'*were all either too far above
me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle
flate, or what might be called the upper Ration of low
life, which he had found, by long experience, was the
beft state in the world, the moft fuited to human 'h happinefs, not expofed to the miferies and hardships, ' !*id,;
the
ROBINSON CRUSOfi. 3
the labour and fufferings of the mechanic part of man-
kind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury,
ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind: he
told me, I might judge of the happinefs of this ftateby
one thing, viz. That this was the Rate of life which all
other people envied ; that kings have frequently lament-
ed the miferable confequences of being born to great
things, and wished they had been placed in the middle
of two extremes, between the mean and the great; that
the wife man gave his teftimony to this., as thejuft ftan-
dard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither
poverty nor riches.
He bid me obferve it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle ftation
had the feweft difaflers, and was not expofed to fo
many viciffitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not fubjefted to fo many diftem-
pers and uneafinefles, either of body or mind, as thofe
were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and extra-
vagancies, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean and infufficient diet, on the other
hand, bring diftempers upon themfelves by the natu-
ral confequences of their way of living; that the mid die station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues,
and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty
were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that tempe-
rance, moderation, quietnefs, health, society, all agree-
able diverfions, and all defirable pleasures, were the
blessings attending the middle ftation of life; that this
way men went filently and fmoothly through the
world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed •with the labours of the hands, or of the head, not •
B 2 fold
fold to the life of flavery for daily bread, or harafled
with perplexed circumftances, which rob the foul of
peace, and th» body of reft; not enraged with the
paffion of envy, or fecret burning lust of ambition for
great things; but in eafy circumftances, fliding gently
through the world, and fenfibly tailing the fweets of
living, without the bitter, feeling that they are happy,
and learning, by every day's experience, to know it
more fenfibly.
After this, he prefled me earneftly, and in the moft
affeftionate manner, not to play the young man, nor
to precipitate myfelf into miferies which nature, and
the station of life I was born in, feemed to have pro-
vided againft; that I was under no necessity of feeking
my bread; that he would do well for me, and endea-
vour to enter me fairly into the station of life which he
had been juft recommending to me; and that if I
was not very eafy and happy in the world, it muft be
my mere fate or fault that muft hinder it, and that he
should have nothing to anfwer for, having thus dif-
charged his duty, in warning me againft meafures which
he knew would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he
would do very kind things for me, if I would ftay and
fettle at home, as he direfted, fo he would not have
fo much hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any
encouragement to go away: and, to clofe all, he told
me I had my elder brother for an example, to whom
he had ufed the fame earnet t perfuafions to keep him
from going into the Low* Country wars, but could not
prevail, his young defires prompting him to run into
the army, where he was killed; and though, he faid, he
would not ceafe to pray for me, yet he would venture
to fay to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God
would
Would not blefs me; and I would have leifure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counfel, when
there might be none to affift in my recovery.
I obferved, in this. laft part of his difcourfe, which
was truly prophetic, though, I fuppofe, my father did
not know it to be fo himfelf; I fay, I obferved the
tears run down his face very plentifully, efpecially
when he fpoke of my brother who was killed; and
that when he fpoke of my having leifure to repent,
and none to affift me, he was fo moved, that he broke
off the difcourfe, and told me his heart was fo full, he
could fay no more to me. . ,
I was fincerely affected with this difcciurfe, as indeed
who could be otherwife ? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to fettle at home, according
to my father's defire. But, alas ! a few days wore it
all off: and, in short, to prevent any of my father's
further importunities, in a few weeks after, I refolved to
run quite away from him. However, I did not aft fo
haftily neither, as my firft heat of refolution prompted,
but I took my mother, at a time when I thought her a
little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my
thoughts were fo entirely bent upon feeing the world,
that I should never fettle to any thing with refolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better
give me his confent, than force me to go without it:
that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late
to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was fure if I did, I fhould never ferve out my
time, and I should certainly run away from my master before my time was out, and go to fea; and if she would fpeak to my father to let me make but one voy-
age abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it,
B 3 I would
. . •
6 ADVENTURES OF
I would go no more; and I would promife, by a dou- j
ble diligence, to recover the time I had loft. j
This put my mother into a great paffion: she told
me, me knew it would be to no purpofe to fpeak to
my father upon any fuch fubjeft; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his confent to any
thing fo much for my hurt; and that she wondered
how I could think of any fuch thing, after fuch a dif-
courfe as I had from my father, and fuch. kind and ten-
der expreffions as the knew my father had ufed to me;
and that, in short, if I would ruin myfelf, there was
no help for me; but I might depend I fhould never
have their confent to it: that, for her part, the would
not have fo much hand in my destruction ; and I should never have it to fay, " that my mother was willing
*' when my father was not."
Though my mother refufed to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
difcourfe to him; and that my father, after mowing a great concern at it, faid to her with a figh, " That
•' boy might be happy, if he would flay at home; but,
"if he goes abroad, he will be the most miferable
"wretch that ever was born: I can give no confent to
"it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose; though, in the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to all propofals of fettling to bufinefs; and fre-
quently expoftulating with my father and mother about
their being fo pofitively determined againft what they
knew my inclinations prompted me to. But, being
one day at Hull, where I went cafually, and without ''"
t any purpofe of making an elopement at that time, and
one of my companions being going to London by fea,
fea, in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them by the common allurement of seafaring men, viz.
"that it would cost me nothing for my passage", I confulted neither father nor mother any more, nor
fo much as fent them word of it; but leaving them to
hear of it as they might,' without afking God's blef-
fing, or my father's, without any confideration of
circumftances or confequences, and in. an ill .hour,
God knows. ,
On the ift of September, 1651, I went on board
a fhip bound for London: never any young adventu-
rer's misfortunes, I believe, began earlier, or conti-
nued longer than mine. The fhip was no fooner got-
ten out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow,
and the waves to rife in a moft frightful manner; and
as I had never been at fea before, I was moft inexpref-
fibly fickin body, and terrified in mind : I began now
ferioufly to reflect upon what I had done, and howjuft-
ly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven, for
my wicked leaving my father's houfe, and abandoning
my duty. All the good counfel of my parents, my
father's tears, and my mother's intreaties, came now
fresh into my mind ; and my confcience, which was not
yet come to the pitch of hardinefs to which it has been
since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, and
the breach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the ftorm increafed, and the fea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have fcen many times
fince; no, nor what I faw a few days after. But, like it,
•was enough to affect me then, who was but a young
failor, and had never known any thing of the matter.
I expected every wave would have fwallowed us up,
B 4 and
and that every time the flap fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the fea, we should never
rife more; and in this agony of mind I made many
vows and refolutions, that if it would pleafe God to
fpare my life this voyage, if ever I got my foot once
upon dry land, I would go directly home to my father,
and never fet it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run myfelf into fuch
miferies as thefe any more. Now I faw plainly the
goodnefs of his obfervations about the middle ftation of
life; how eafy, how comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been expofed to tempests at fea,
or troubles on shore : and I refolved that I would,
like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
Thefe wife and fober thoughts continued during the
storm, and indeed fome time after; but the next day,
as the wind was abated, and the fea calmer, I began to
be a little inured to it. However, I was very grave
that day, being alfo a little fea-fick ftill; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,
and a charming fine evening followed: the fun went
down perfectly clear, and rofe fo the next morning;
and having little or no wind, and a fmooth fea, the fun
shining upon it, the fight was, as I thought, the moft
delightful that I ever faw.
I had flept well in the night, and was now no more
fea-fick, but very chearful, looking with wonder up-
on the fea that was fo rough and terrible the day before,
and could be fo calm and pleafant in a little time after.
And now, left my good refolutions should continue,
my companion, who had indeed enticed me away,
came to me, and faid, "Well, Bob," clapping me on
the moulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant you
were
1
•* were frightened, wa'n't you, laft night, when it blew *'. but a cap-full of wind?" •* A cap-full, do you call
«' it?" faid I; "'twas a terrible storm." "A storm, "you fool!" replies he, "do you call that a storm ?
"Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good
"fhip and fea room, and we think nothing of such a
*' fquall of wind as that: you are but a fresh -water
"failor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch,
"and we'll forget all that. D'ye fee what charming
'* weather 'tis now?" To make short this fad part of
mystory, we went the way of all failors; the punch
was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that
one night's wickednefs I drowned all my repentance,
all my reflexions upon my paft conduft,, and all my
refoluticns for the future. In a word, as the fea was
returned to its fmoothnefs of furface and fettled calm-
nefs, by the abatement of that storm, fo the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehenfions
of being fwallowed up by the fea forgotten, and the
current of my former defires returned, I entirely for-
got the vows and promifes I had made in my diftrefs.
I found, indeed, fome intervals of reflection, and fe-
rious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return
again sometimes, but I shook them off, and roufed
myfelf from them, as it were from a diftemper, and
applying myfelf to drink and company, foon maftered
the return of thofe fits, forfo I called them, and I had
in five or fix days got as complete a viftory over con-
fcience as any young fellow, that refolved not to be
troubled with it, could defire. But I was to have ano-
ther trial for it ftill; and Providence, as in such cafes
generally it does, refolved to leave me entirely without
pxcufe: for if I would not take this for a deliverance,
th?
1
the next was to be fuch a one as the worst and moft
hardened wretch among us would confefs both the dan-
ger and the mercy. The fixth day of our being at fea
we came into Yarmouth roads; the wind having been
contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little
way fince the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con-
trary, viz. at southwest, for feven or eight days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcaftle came
into the fame roads, as the common harbour where
the fhips might wait for a wind for the river. We had
not, however, rid here f6 long, and should have tided
•up the river, hat that the wind blew too'frem; and af-
ter we had lain four or five days, blew very hard.
However, the roads being reckoned as good as a har-
bour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very
ftrong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the
leaft apprehenfive of danger, but fpent the time in
reft and mirth, after the^ manner of the fea. But the
eighth day, in the morning, the wind increafed, and
we had all hands at work to ftrike our topmafls, and
make every thing fnug and clofe, that the ship might
ride as eafy as poffible. By noon the fea went very
high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several feas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor
had come home; upon which our mailer ordered out
the fheet-anchor; fo that we rode with two anchors
a-head, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now
I began to fee terror and, amazement in the faces of
even the feamen themfelves. The mafter, though vi-
gilant to the bufinefs of prefervingthe fhip, yet, as he
went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him
foftly
foftly fay to himfelf feveral times, "Lord, be merciful
"to us! we fhall be all loft; we fhall be all undone!"
and the like. During thcfe firft hurries I was ftupid,
lying ftill in my cabin, which was in the fteerage, and
cannot defcribe my temper. I could ill re-afiume the first penitence, which I had fo apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myfelf againft; I thought that the bitternefs
of death had been paft, and that this would be nothing
too, like the first: but when the mafter himfelf came
by me, as I faid juft now, and faid we should be all
loft, I was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of my
cabin, and looked out, but fuch a difmal fight I never
faw; the fea went mountains high, and broke upon
us every three or four minutes. .When I could look
about, I could fee nothing but diftrefs round us; two
ships, that rid near us, we found had cut their mails by the board, being deeply laden, and our men cried
out, that a fhip, which rid about a mile a-head of us,
was foundered. Two more fhips, being driven from
their anchors, were run out of the roads to fea, at all
adventures, and that with not a mast ftanding. The
light fhips fared the beft, as not fo much labouring in
the fea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close. by us, running away, with-only their fprit-fails out, be-
fore the wind. Toward evening, the mate and boat-
fwain begged the master of our fhip to let them cut
away the foremaft, which he was very loth to do; but
the boatfwain protefting to him, that if he did not, the
fhip would founder, heconfented; and when they had
cut away the foremaft, the mainmaft flood fo loofe, and
shook the ship fo much, they were obliged to cut it
away alfo, and make a clear deck.
i-
Any
Any one may judge what a condition I muft be in
at all this, who was but a young failor, and who had
been in fuch a flight before, at but a little. But if I
can exprefs, at this defiance, the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind
upon account of my former convictions, and the hav-
ing returned from them to the refolutions I had wick-
edly taken at first, than I was at death itfelf; and thefe,
added to the terror of the ftorm, put me into fuch a
condition, that I can by no words defcribe it. But
the worft was not come yet; the storm continued with
fuch fury, that the feamen themfelves acknowledged
they had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but fhe was deep loaden, and wallowed in the fea, that
the feamen every now and then cried out, me would
founder. It was my advantage, in one respect, that I
did not know what they meant by "founder," till I
enquired. However, the storm was fo violent, that I
faw, what is not often feen, the mafter, the boatfwain,
and fome others, more fenfible than the reft, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment the flap would
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and
under all the reft of our diftreffes, one of the men, that
had been down on purpofe to fee, cried out, " we
"had fprung a leak ;" another faid, " there was four
"feet water in the hold." Then all hands were
called to the pump. At that very word, my heart, as
I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon
the fide of my bed, where I fat in the cabin. How-
ever, the men roufed me, and told me, " that I," who
was able to do nothing before, " was as well able to
"pump as another," at which I ftirred up, and went
to the pump, -and worked very heartily; While this
5 was
•was doing, the mafter feeing fome light colliers, who
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to flip and
run away to fea, and would not come near us, ordered
us to fire a gun, as a fignal of diftrefs. I, who knew no-
thing what that meant, was fo furprifed, that I thought
the ship had broke, or fome dreadful thing had hap-
pened. In a word, I was fo furprifed, that I fell down
in a fwoon. As this was a time when every body had
his own life to think of, no body minded me, or what
was become of me; but another man ftept up to the
pump, and thrufting me afide with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while be-
fore I came to myfelf.
We worked on; but the water increafing in the hold,
it was apparent that the fhip would founder; and
though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was
not poflible me could swim till we might run into a
port, fo the mailer continued firing guns for help;
and a light fhip, who had rid it out just a-head of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for
us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the
ship's fide; till at 1 aft the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to fave ours, our men caft
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then
veered it out a great length, which they, after great
labour and hazard, took hold of, and we haled them
clofe under our stern, and got all into their boat. It
was to no purpofe for them or us, after we were in
the boat, to think of reaching their own mip; fo all
agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards
shore as much as we could; and our mailer promifed
them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he
would
would make it good to their mafter; fo partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away to the north-
ward, Hoping towards the fhore almoft as far as Win-
terton-Nefs.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, but we faw her fink; and then lun-
derftood, for the. rirft time, what was meant by a ship foundering in the fea: I muft acknowledge, I had
hardly eyes to look up when the feamen told me,
"she was finking;" for, from that moment, they ra-
ther put me into the boat, than that I might be faid to
go in. My heart was, as it were, dead within me,
partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labour-
ing at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could
fee (when our boat mounting the waves, we were able
to fee the more) a great many people running along
the ftrand, to affift us when we would come near; but
we made flow way towards the more, nor were we able .
to reach it, till being paft the light-houfe at Win-
terton, the more falls off to the weftward, towards
Cromer, and fo the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind: here we got in, and, though not with-
out much difficulty, got all fafe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortu-
nate men, we were ufed with great humanity, as well
by the magiftrates of the town, who affigned us good
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of
mips; and had money given us fufficient to carry us
either to London, or back to Hull, as we thought fit. .jti'u,
Had I now had the fenfe to have gone back to Hull, ,
and have gone home, I had been happy; and my fa-
ther,
.
ther,. an emblem of our blefled Saviour's parable, had
even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship ,
I went in, was caft-away in Yarmouth roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not
drowned.
But my ill fate pufhed me on with an obftinacy that
nothing could refift; and though, I had feveral times
loud calls from my reafon, and my more compofed judg-
ment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it.—
I know not what to call this, nor will I urge, that it is
a fecret, over-ruling decree that hurries us on to be the
inftruments of our own destruction, even though it be
before us, and that we rum upon it with our eyes open.
Certainly nothing but fome fuch decreed, unavoid-
able mifery attending, and which it was impossible for
me to efcape, could have pushed me forward againft the
calm reafonings and perfuafions of my moft retired
thoughts, and against two fuch vifible inftruftions as
I had met with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the mafter's fon, was now let's forward
than I; the rirft time he fpoke to me after we were at
Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for
we were feparated in the town to feveral quarters;
I fay, the first time he faw me, it appeared his tone
was altered, and looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I did; telling his father who
I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go farther abroad: his father turning to
me, with a grave and concerned tone, " Young man,"
'fays he, " you ought never to go to fea any more; you
"ought to take this for a plain and vifible token,
"that you are not to bea feafaring man." "Why, fir,"
aid faid I, "will you go to fea no more?" "That is
"another cafe," faid he, "it is my calling, and there- ''
"fore my duty; but as you made this voyage fora
"trial, you fee what a tafte heaven has given you of
"what you are to expect, if you perfift. Perhaps this
"is all befallen us on your account ; like Jonah, in the
"ship of Tarfhim." "Pray," continues he, "what
"are you, and on what account did you go to fea?''
Upon that, I told him fome of my ftory, at the end . • ;l
of which he burst out with aftrange kind of passion, "What had I done," faid he, "that fuch an unhap;
"py wretch would come into my ship ? I would not
"fet my foot in the fame ship with thee again, for
"a thoufand pounds." This indeed was, as I faid, ""ttrt
an excurfion of his fpirits, which were yet agitated by ^
the fenfe of his loss, and was farther than he could have I'loomc
authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very "elite gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my father, *"> the
and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me, 'J"%C
"I might fee a vifible hand of Heaven againft me; "wfj
"and, young man", faid he, " depend upon it, if ''W
"you do not go back, wherever you go, you will .We,
"meet with nothing but difafters and difappointments, ^"otion
"till your father's words are fulfilled upon you." '*c°llccit
We parted foon after, for I made him little anfwer, !"t°a"gO
and I faw him no more; which way he went I know ^""San
not: As for me, having fome money in my pocket, ^itw
I travelled to London by land; and there, as well as ^K$ i0
on the road, had many ftruggles with myfelf, what ^othe
courfe of life I -mould taker and whether I would go tyc^
home, or go to fea. As to going home, fhame op- !smVn
pofed the bell motions that offered to my thoughts; '' did
and it immediately occured to me, how I should be ^tlUj
laughed V
laughed at among the neighbours; and would be
afhamed to fee, not my father and mother only, but
even every body elfe; from whence I have often fince
observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that
reason which ought to guide them in fuch cafes, viz.
that .they are not afhamed to fin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not afhamed of the action, for which they
ought juftly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wife men.
In this ftate of life, however, I remained fome
time, uncertain what meafures to take, and what courfe
of life to lead. An irrefiftible reluctance continued to
going home; and as I flayed awhile, the remembrance
of the diftrefs I had been in, wore off; and as that
abated, the little motion I had in my defires to a re-
turn, wore off with it, till at laft I quite laid afide the
thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage. That
evil influence which carried me firfl away from my fa-
ther's houfe, that hurried me into the wild and indi-
gefted notion of raifing my fortune; and that imprefled
thofe conceits fo forcibly upon me, as to make me
deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even
the command of my father; I fay, the fame influence,
whatever it was, prefented the moft unfortunate of all
enterprizes to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our failors vul-
garly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all thefe adven-
tures, I did not fhip myfelf as a failor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked a little harder than
ordinary, yet, at the fame time, I had learned the duty
VOL. I. C and
and office of a foremaft-man, and in time might have
qualified myfelf for a mate, or lieutenant, if not a
mafter: But as it was always my fate to choofe for the
work, fo I did here; for having money in my pocket,
and good cloaths upon my back, I would always go on
board in the habit of a gentleman; and fo I neither
had any bufinefs in the fhip, or learned to do any. It
was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to
fuch loofe and unguided young fellows as I then was;
the devil, generally, not omitting to lay fome fnare for
them very early. But it was not fo with me; I firft
fell acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good
fuccefs there, was refolved to go again ; and who ta-
king a fancy to my converfation, which was not at all
difagreeable at that time, hearing me fay " I had a mind
"to fee the world," told me, " If I would go the voy-
"age with him, I fhould be at no expence: I fhould
"be his mefs-mate and his companion; and if I could
"carry any thing with me, I fhould have all the ad-
"vantage of it that the trade would admit; and perhaps
"I might meet with fome encouragement." I em-
braced the offer, and entering into a ftrift friendfhip
with this captain, who was an honeft and plain-dealing
man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a fmall
adventure with me; which, by the difintere'fted honefty
of my friend the captain, I increased very confiderably;
for I carried about 40!. in fuch toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This pol. I had mustered together by the affiftance of fome of my relations whom
I correfponded with, and who, I believe got my father,
or at leaft my mother, to contribute fo much as that to
my
my firft adventure. This was the only voyage which
I may fay was fuccefsful in all my adventures, and
which I owe to the integrity and honefty of my friend
the captain; under whom alfo, I got a competent know-
ledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's courfe,
take an observation, and, in short, to underftand fome
things that were needful to be underftood by a failor;
for as he took delight to inftruft me, I took delight
to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
failor and a merchant; for I brought home 5 lb. 9 oz. of
gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in Lon-
don, at my return, almoft 300!. and this filled me with
thofe afpiring thoughts which have fince fo compleated
my ruin. Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes
too; particularly, that I was continually fick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of
the climate ; our principal trading being upon the coaft,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north, even to the Line
itfelf. , ,
I was now fet up for a Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying foon after his arrival,
I refolved to go the fame voyage again; and I embarked
in the fame vessel with one who was his mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappieft voyage that ever man
made; for. though I did not carry quite lool. of my
new-gained wealth, fo that I had aool. left, and which
I lodged with my friend's widow, who was veryjufl
to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voy-
age ; and the first was this, viz. Our (hip, making her
courfe towards the Canary Iflands, or rather between
thofe iflands and the African shore, was furprized,
; C 2 in
in the gray of the morning, by a Turkifh rover, of
Sallee, who gave chafe to us, with all the fail fhe
could make. We crouded alfo as much canvas as our
yards would fpread, or our masts carry, to have got
clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight, our fhip having 12 guns, and the
rogue 18. About three in the afternoon he came up
with us; and bringing to, by miftake, just athwart our
quarter, inftead of athwart our item, as he intended,
we brought eight of our guns to bear on that fide, and j
poured in a broadfide upon him, which made him fheer
off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in alfo
his fmall mot from near 200 men which he had on
board. However, we had not a man touched, all our
men keeping clofe. He prepared to attack •us again,
and we to defend ourselves ; but laying us on board the
next time upon our other quarter, he entered 60 men
upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and
hacking the fails and rigging, We plyed them with
fmall shot, half-pikes, powder-chefts, and fuch like,
and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
fhort this melancholy part of our fury, our fhip being
disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried
all prifoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not fo dreadful as at first I apprehended ; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, as the reft of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his flave, being young and nimble, and fit for his
bufinefs. At this furprizing change of my circum-
ftances, from a merchant to a miferable flave, I was
perfeaiy
perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic difcourfe to me, " that I should "be miferable, and have none to relieve me;" which
I thought was now fo effectually brought to pafs, that
it could not be worse ; that now the hand of Heaven
had overtaken me, and I was undone, without redemp-
tion. But, alas ! this was but a taste of the mifery I was
to go through, as will appear in the fequel of this story. As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his houfe, fo I was in hopes he would take me with
him when he went to fea again, believing that it would,
fome time or other, be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguefe man of war, and that then I should be fet
at liberty. But this hope of mine was foon taken away;
for when he went to tea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of
flaves about his houfe; and when he came home again
from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to
look after the flap. Here I meditated nothing but my efcape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way
that had the leaft probability in it. Nothing prefented
to make the fuppofition of it rational; for I had no-
body to communicate it to that would embark with
me; no fellow-flave, no Englifhman, Irimman, or
Scotchman there but myfelf; fo that for two years,
though I often pleafed myself with the imagination, yet
I never had the leaft encouraging profpeft of putting it
in practice. After about two years, an odd circumftance prefented
itfelf, which put the old thought of making fome at, tempt for my liberty again in my head: My patron
lying at home longer than ufual, without fitting ou;
• . 'C 3 bis
his fhip, which, as I heard, was for want of money;
he ufed constantly, once or twice a week, fometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pin-
nace, and go out into the road a fifhing; and as he
always took me and a young Morefco with him to row
the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very
dextrous in catching fifh, infomuch that fometimes he
would fend me with a Moor,, one of his kinfmen, and
the youth, the Morefco, as they called him, to catch a
dish of fish for him.
, r
It happened one time, that going a fifhing in a ftark
calm morning, a fog rofe fo thick, that though we
were not half a league from the fhore, we loft fight of it;
and rowing, we knew not whither, or which way, we
laboured all day and all the next night, and when the
morning came, we found we had pulled off to fea, in-
ftead of pulling in for the more, and that we were at
leaft two leagues from the more: However, we got well
in again, though with a great deal of labour, and fome
danger, for the wind began to blow pretty frefh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this difafter, refolved to
to take more care of himfelf for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English fhip he had
taken, he refolved he would not go a fifhing any more
without a compafs and fome provifion; fo he ordered 'Nd
the carpenter of the ship, who was an Englifh flave, to Nio
build a little ftate-room or cabin in the middle of the 'Q * 11
long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it, to fleer and haul home the main-fheet, and
room before for a hand or two, to ftand and work the \
fails. She failed with what we call a shoulder of mut-
ton fail, and the boom gibb'd over the top of the cabin,
which
which lay very snug and low, and had in it room for
him to lie, with a flave or two, and a table to eat on,
with fome fmall lockers, to put in fome bottles of fuch
liquor as he thought fit to drink, particularly his bread,
rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat afifhing, and as
I was moft dextrous to catch fifh for him, he never went
without me. It happened, that he had appointed to go
out in this boat, either for pleafure or for fifh, with two or three Moors of fome diuindion in that place, and
for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had
therefore fent on board the boat, over-night, a larger
fore of provifion than ordinary, and had ordered me
to get ready three fufees, with powder and shot, which
which were on board his ship, for that they -designed fome fport of fowling as well as fishing. I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the
next morning with the boat warned clean, her antient and
pendants out, and every thing to accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my patron came on board alone, and
told me his guefts had put off going, upon fome bufl-
nefs that fell out, and ordered me, with the man and
boy, as ufual, to go out with the boat, and catch them
fome fish, for that his friends were to fup at his houfe;
and commanded, that as foon as I had got fome fish, I should bring it home to his houfe: all which I pre-
pared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my mafter
being gone, I prepared to furnifh myself, not for a fishing bufinefs, but for a voyage; though I knew not,
neither did I fo much as confider, whither I should C 4 fteer;
fleer; for any where, to get out of that place, was
my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to get fomething for our fubfiftence on
board; for I told him we muft not prefume to eat of
our patron's bread; he faid that was true : fo he
brought a large bafket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron's cafe of bottles flood, which it was
evident, by the make, were taken out of fome English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on fhore, as if they had been there before for
our mafter. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a faw, and a hammer, all which were of great ufe to us
afterwards, efpecially the wax, to make candles. Ano-
ther trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into alfo; his name was Ifmael, whom they call
Muley or Moley; fo I called to him, '* Moley," faid
I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat, can you
"not get a little powder and shot ? it may be we may
"kill fome alcamies (fowls like our curlieus) for our-
"felves, for I know he keeps the gunner's flores in "the (hip." "Yes," fays he, " I'll bring fome;"
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch,
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or ra-
ther more, and another with most, that had five or fix
pounds, with fome bullets, and put all into the boat:
at the fame time I found some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large
bottles in the cafe, which was almost empty, pouring
what was in it into another; and thus furnished with
every
every thing needful, we failed out of the port to fim.
The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew
who we were, and took no notice of us; and we were
not above a mile out of the port, before we hauled in
our fail, and fet us down to fifh; the wind blew from
N. N. E. which was contrary to my defire; for, had
it blown foutherly, I had been fure to have made the
coaft of Spain, and at laft reached to the bay of Cadiz:
but my refolutions were, blow which way it would, I
would be gone from the horrid place where I was, and
leave the reft to fate,
After we had fished fome time, and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them
up, that he might not fee them; I faid to the Moor,
"this will not do; our master will not be thus ferved;
"we muft ftand farther off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, fet the fails;
and as I had the helm, I run the boat near a league far-
ther, and then brought to, as if I would fifh. Then
giving the boy the helm, I flepped forward to where the
Moor was, and I took him by furprize, with my arm
under his waist, and tofled him clear overboard into the
fea. He rose immediately, for he fwam like a cork,
and called to me, begged to be taken in, told me he
would go all the world over with me. He fwam fo
strong after the boat, that he would have reached me
very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I ftepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowl-
ing pieces, I prefented it at him, and told him, "I had
f done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would
." do him none; but," faid I, " you fwirn well enough
"to reach the more, and the, fea is calm ; make the bed
"of your way to more, and I will do you no harm : but
?' if you come near the boat, I will shoot you through
"the
26 ADVENTURES OF "the head; for I am refolved to have my liberty." So
he turned himfelf about, and fwam for the shore ; and
I make no doubt but he reached it with eafe, for he was
an excellent fwimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to.truft him. When he was gone, I
turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and faid to
him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I will
"make you a great man; but if you will not croak •' your face to be true to me, (that is, swear by Maho-
"met and his father's beard) I muft throw you into the
"fea too." The boy fmiled in my face, and fpoke fo
innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and fwore
to be faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
While IJKHS in view of the Moor that was swim- ming, I flood out directly to fea with the boat, rather
ftretching to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Strait's mouth, (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits muft have been fuppofed to do) for
who would have fuppofed we were failed on to the
fouthward, to the truly Barbarian coaft, where whole
nations of Negroes were fure to furround us with their
canoes, and deftroy us l where we could never once go
on shore, but we should be devoured by favage beaft%
or more mercilefs favages of human kind.
But as foon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my courfe, and fteeied direftly fouth and by east, bend-
ing my courfe a little toward the east, that I might
keep in with the shore ; and having a fair, fresh gale of
wind, and a fmooth, quiet fea, I made fuchfail, that I
believe, by the next day, at three o'clock in the after-
noon, when I made the land, I could not be lefs than
150 miles fouth of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor
of
of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other King
thereabouts; for we faw no people.
Yet fuch was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehenfions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had
failed in that manner five days; and then the wind
fhifting to the fouthward, I concluded alfo, that if
any of our veffels were in chafe of me, they alfo would
now give over; fo I ventured to make to the coaft, and
came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river: I
knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what
country, what nation, or what river. I neither faw, or
defired to fee, any people; the principal thing I want-
ed was fresh water. We came into this creek in the
evening, refolving to fwim on fhore as foon^s it was
dark, and difcover the country; but as foon as it was
quite dark, we heard fuch dreadful noifes of the bark-
ing, roaring and howling of wild creatures, of we
knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to
die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till
day.. "Well, Xury," faid I," then I will get ; but,
"it may be, we may fee men by day, who will be as
"bad to us as thofe lions." "Then we may give
"them the shoot gun," fays Xury, laughing; " make
them run way."—Such English Xury fpoke by con-
versing among us flaves. However, I was glad to fee
the boy fo cheerful, and I gave him a dram out of our
patron's cafe of bottles, to cheer him up. After all,
Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped
our little anchor, and lay full all night; I fay, still, for
we flept none; for, in two or three hours, we faw val creatures, (we knew not what to call them) of many
forts, come down to the seashore, andrun into the
water,
water, wallowing and washing themfelves, for the -i Im&h,
pleafure of cooling themfelves; and they made fuch . fcian, h
hideous bowlings and yellings, that I never indeed bin lirae
heard the like. <rtjlft)
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed fo was toufirerf
I too; but we were both more frightened when we heard
o MI UIUJ C VI
one of thefe mighty creatures fwimming towards our i^ .
boat: we could not fee him, but we might hear him, raI'ttwU
by his blowing, to be a monftrous, huge, and furious r a ^ ,
aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the r /'
anchor, and row away. "No," fays I, "Xury; we
'
"can flip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off to j ,
"fea: they cannot follow us far." I had no fooner
faid fo, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) I II within two oars length, which something furprized , otci
me; however, I immediately ftept to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at him: upon which he
immediately turned about, and fwam to the fhore again.
But it is impoffible to defcribe the horrible noifes,
and hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as Staled
well upon the edge of the more as higher within the '/"* him,
country, upon the noife or report of the gun; a thing, '' >W
I believe, thofe creatures had never heard before. This lctl*JSa
convinced me there was no going on more for us in the "^tin c
night upon that coaft, and how to venture on more in I ^Wof j
the day, was another question too; for to have fallen j^|pooi
into the hands of any of the favages, had been as bad j ^good ^
as to have fallen into the paws of lions and tygers; at Dt*efot
lead, we were equally apprehenfive of the danger of it. N for w.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on fhore 'tie, iye
fomewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint . ."^hichfl
left in the boat ; when and where to get it was the point. :to>vd, j^.
Xury
Xury faid, if I would let him go on fhore with one of
the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring fome to me. I afked him "why he would go?
<c why I fhould not go, and he flay in the boat?" The
boy anfwered withfo much affection, that he made me
love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans come,
"they eat me, you go way." "Well, Xury," faid I,
"we will both go; and if the wild mans come, we will
"kill them; they fhall eat neither of us." So I gave
Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out
of our patron's cafe of bottles, which I mentioned
before ; and we haled the boat in as near the shore as we
thought was proper, and fo waded to shore, carrying
nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of fight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with favages down the river; but the
boy feeing a low place about a mile up the country, ram-
bled to it; and, by and by, I fawhim come running to-
ward me. I thought he was pursued by fome favage,
or frightened with fome wild beaft, and I ran forwards
towards him, to help him; but, when I came nearer to
him, I saw fomething hanging over his fhoulders,
which was a creature that he had fhot, like a hare, but
different in colour, and longer legs; however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great
joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had
found good water, and feen no wild mans.
But we found, afterwards, that we need not take fuch
pains for water; for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the water frefh when the tide was
out, which flowed but a little way up 4 fo we filled our
jars, and, having a fire, failed on the hare we had killed;
and
and prepared to go on our way, having feen no footfteps ,
of any human creature in that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew
very well that the iflands of the Canaries, and the Cape
de Verd islands alfo, lay not far from the coast. But
as I had no inftruments to take an obfervation, to know
what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or
at leafl remember what latitude they were in, I knew ''P011
JL Lj
not where to look for them, or when to Hand off to fea
towards them, otherwife I might now have eafily found "JiWflo
fome of thefe iflands. But my hope was, that if I flood , r«were,
along this coaft, till I came to the part where the Eng- "™
lifh traded, I fhould find fome of their vessels upon their '>
ufual defign of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the belt of my calculation, the place where I now
was, muft be that country, which lying between the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies r a ^theft
wafte and uninhabited, except by wild beafts, the Ne- . I1*'overt
groes having abandoned it, and gone farther fouth, for """t mi fear of the Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth \ '"v'Mefc
inhabiting, by reason of its barrennefs; and, indeed, l"rocJiu
both forfaking it because of the prodigious numbers of ^baa \%
tygers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which ^ ilisoft
harbour there; fo that the Moors ufe it for their hunt- • !Vofp0,
ing only, where they go like an army, two or three ^"lloaded
thoufand men at a time; and, indeed, for near an hurt- ^that t[
dred miles together upon this coast, we faw nothing but ] *: I^
a waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing *:fliot ^
but bowlings and roaring of wild beafts by night. f^t ^
Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I faw the uoK ^ .
Pico of Teneriffe, being the top of the mountain Te- ^'tlnpat
neriffe in the Canaries, and had a great mind to venture 'i\ Jtl<j
out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having tried Ta twice, fed1
twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
fea alfo going too high for my little veflel; fo I refolved
to purfue my firft defign, and keep along the more.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once, in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under
a little point of land which was pretty high, and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay ftill, to go farther in:
Xnry, whofe eyes Were more about him than, it feems,
mine were, calls foftly to me, and tells me, " that we
"had bell go farther off the more; for," fays he,
*' look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the fide of
"that hillock, faft afleep:" I looked where he point-
ed, and faw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a
terrible great lion, that lay on the fide of the fhore,
under the fhade of a piece of the hill, that hung, as it
were, over him. "Xury," fays I, " you shall go on
*' fhore and kill him:" Xury looked frightened, and
faid, " Me kill! he eat me at one mouth ;" one mouth-
ful he meant: however, I faid no more to the boy, but
bad him be ftill; and I took our biggest gun, which
was almoft mufquet bore, and loaded it with a good
charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down;
then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and a third,
for we had three pieces, I loaded with five fmaller bul-
lets: I took the beft aim I could with the firft piece, to
have shot him into the head, but he lay fo with his leg
raifed a little above his nofe, that the Hugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone; he started up,
growling at firft, but finding his leg broke, fell down
again, and then got up upon three legs, and gave the
moft hideous roar that ever I heard: I was a little fur-
prized that I had not hit him on the head; however, I
took
took up the fecond piece immediately, and though he
began to move off, fired again, and fhot him into the tot the C
head, and had the pleafure to fee him drop, and make ttlfomel
but little noife, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury DUiut a
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore: ii, orp
"Well go," faid I; fo the boy jumped into the water, 'Wpsfroi
and taking a little gun in one hand, fwam to shore with ^Guinea
the other hand, and coming clofe to the creature, put EiiCa^ 0|
the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into '^tofmy
the head again, which difpatched him quite. aim, This was game indeed to us, but it was no food, and I'l^j ^
I was very forry to lofe three charges of powder and ^ jj r,
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. ^
However, Xury faid he would have fome of him; fo he (&.,*.
people
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet: (iii,"For what Xury?" faid I; " Me cut off his head,"
faid he. However, Xury could not cut off his head; \botv"
but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it
was a monstrous great one. I bethought myfelf, how-
ever, that perhaps the fkin of. him might, one way or
other, be of fome value to us ; ,and I refolved to take ^10
off his fkin, if I could. So Xury and I went to work >« ,"
**Mer f]
with him; but Xury was much the better workman at i^i
it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us -J;!^
both up the whole day; but at laft we got off the hide ra .
of him, and fpreading it on the top of our cabin, the ;,..("
fun effectually dried it in two days time, and it after- '%* 't
wards ferved me to lie upon. ;'W\
After this flop, we made on to the fourth ward conti- ^. °P
nually, for ten or twelve days, living very fparingly on :^,''
our provifions, which began to abate very much, and l^w/ ^
going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to i^. "^ <
for fresh water; my defign in this, was to make the ^ ' * v
river t S; hoy
I M
river Gambia, or Senegal, that is to fay, any where
about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet
with fome European fhip, and if I did not, I knew
not what courfe I had to take, but to leek for the
islands, or perish among the negroes. I knew that all
the fhips from Europe, which failed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brafil, or to the Raft Indies, made
this Cape, or thofe Iflands; and, in a word, I put the
whole of my fortune upon this (single point, either that
I muft meet with fome fhip, or muft perifh.
When I had pursued this refolution about ten days
longer, as I have faid, I began to fee that the land was
inhabited, and in two or three places, as we failed by,
we faw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
could alfo perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them, but Xury was my better counfellor, and faid to
me, " no go, no go:" however, I haled'in nearer the
shore, that I might talk to them; and I found they run
along the shore by me a good way; I observed, they
had no weapons in their hands, except one,- who had a
long, flender Rick, which Xury faid was a lance, and
that they would throw them a great way with good aim;
fo I kept at a diftance, but talked to them by figns, as
well as I could, and particularly made signs for forms thing to eats they beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me fome meat; upon this', I
lowered the top of my fail, and lay by, and two of them
run up into the country, and in lefs than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry
flefh and fome corn, fuch as is the produce of their
country; but we neither knew what the one or the
other was; however, we were willing to accept it; but
VOL. I. D how
how to come at it was our next difpute, for I was not
for venturing on fhore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a fafe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and
went and flood a great way off till we fetched it on
board, and then came clofe to us again.
We made figns of thanks to them, for we had no-
thing to make them amends; but an opportunity offer-
ed that very inftant to oblige them wonderfully; for
while we were lying by the fhore, came two mighty
creatures, one purfuing the other (as we took it) with
great fury, from the mountains towards the fea; whe-
ther it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in fport, or in rage, we could not tell, any
more than we could tell whether it was ufual or ftrange;
but I believe it was the latter, becaufe, in the firft place,
thofe ravenous creatures feldom appear but in the night;
and, in the fecond place, we found the people terribly
frightened, efpecially the women. The man that had
the lance, or dart, did not fly from them, but the reft
did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into
the water, they did not feem to offer to fall upon any
of the negroes, but plunged themfelves into the fea, and
swam about, as if they had come for their diverfion:
at laft, one of them began to come nearer our boat than
at firft 1 expefted; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all poffible expedition, and bad
Xury load both the others; as foon as he came fairly
within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly into the
head; immediately he funk down into the water, but
rofe inftantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
flruggling for life, and fo indeed he was: he immediate-
ly made to shore ; but between the wound, which was
his
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he
died just before he reached the shore. It it impossible to express the aftonifhment of thefe
poor creatures, at the noife and fire of my gun; fome
of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror; but when they faw the
creature dead, and funk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart,
and came to the fhore, and began to fearch for the
creature. I found him by his blood flaming the water,
and by the help of a rope, which I flung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on
shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard,
fpotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and the ne-
groes held up their hands with admiration, to think
what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire,
and the noife of the gun, fwam on shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they came; nor
could I, at that distance, know what it was. I found
quickly the negroes were for eating the flesh of this
creature, fo I was willing to have them take it as a
favour from me; which, when I made figns to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful for:
immediately they fell to work with him, and though
they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took off his fkin as readily, and much more rea-
dily, than we could have done with a knife; they of-
fered me fome of the flesh, which I declined, making
as if I would give it them, but made figns for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their provifions, which, though I
did not understand, yet I accepted; then I made figns to
D 2 them
them for fome water, and held out one of my jars to I
them, turning it bottom upward, to fhew that it was
empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They called
immediately to fome of their friends, and there came
two women, and brought a great veflel made of earth,
and burnt, as I fuppofe, in the fun; this they fet down
for me, as before, and I fent Xury on fhore with my
jars, and filled them all three. The women were as
ftark naked as the men.
I was now furnifhed with roots and corn, fuch as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without of-
fering to go near the shore, till I faw the land run out
a great length into the fea, at about the diftance of four
or five leagues before me, and the fea being very calm,
I kept a large offing to make this point; at length,
doubling the point, at about two leagues from the land,
I faw plainly land on the other fide, to feaward; then I
concluded, as it was moft certain indeed, that this was
the Cape de Verd, and thofe the islands, called from
thence Cape de Verd Iflands. However, they were at
a great diftance, and I could not well tell what I had
beft to do, for if I fhould be taken with a gale of wind,
I might neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very penfive, I flept int»
the cabin, and fat me down, Xury having the helm;
when, on a fudden, the boy cried out, " mafter, master, "a fhip with a fail;" and the foolifh boy was frighten-
ed out of his wits, thinking it muft needs be fome of
his master's fhips fent to purfue us, when I knew we
were gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped
out of the cabin, and immediately faw, not only the
ship,' but what the was, viz, that it was a Portuguefe
Ship, fliip, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of
Guinea for negroes. But when I obferved the course fhe fleered, I was foon convinced they were bound
fome other way, and did not defign to come any nearer
to the shore; upon which, I 'ftretched out to fea as
much as I could, refolding to fpeak with them, if
possible. With all the fail I could make, I found I fhould not
be able to come in their way, but that they would be
gone by before I could make any fignal to them; but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to de-
fpair, they, it feems, faw me, by the help of their per-
fpeftive glafles, and that it was fome European boat,
which, they fuppofed, muft belong to fome fhip that
was loft; fo they fhortened fail, to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's
antient on board, I made a waft of it to them, for a
fignal of diftrefs, and fired a gun, both which they faw,
for they told me they faw the fmoke, though they did
not hear the gun; upon thefe fignals, they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in about three hours
time I came up with them.
They afked me what I was, in Portuguefe, and in
Spanifh, and in French, but I understood none of
them; but, at 'laft, a Scots failor, who was on board,
called to me, and I anfwered him, and told him I was
an Englishman, that I had made my efcape out of
slavery from the Moors at Sallee; then they bade me
come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods.
It was an inexpreffible joy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I efteemed it,
from fuch a miserable and almost hopeless condition as
D 3 I was
38
ADVENTURES OF
I was in, and I immediately offered all I had to the
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but
he generously told me, he would take nothing from me,
but that all I had should be delivered fafe to me, when
I came to the Brafils. "For," fays he, " I have faved
"your life on no other terms than I would be glad to
"be faved myfelf; and it may, one time or other, be
"my lot to be taken up in the fame condition: be-
"fides," faid he, " when I carry you to the Brafils,
"fo great a way from your own country, if I would "take from you what you have, you will be flawed "there, and then I only take away that life I have
"given. No, no, Seignior Inglefe," fays he, (Mr.
Englifhman) " I will carry you thither in charity, and
"thefe things will help to buy your fubfiftence there,
"and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in this propofal, fo he was just in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the fea-
men, that none should offer to touch any thing I had;
then he took every thing into his own pofleffion, and
gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them, even fo much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's ufe, and asked me what I would have for it? I told him,
he had been fo generous to me in every thing, that I
could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left
it entirely to him; upon which, he told me he would
give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brafil, and when it came there, if any one of-
fered to give more, he would make it up. He offered
me also fixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
which I was loth to take; not that I was not willing
tq
to let the Captain have him, but I was very loth to fell
the poor boy's liberty, who had affifted me fo faithfully
in procuring my 6wn. However, when I let him know
my reafon, he owned it to be juft, and offered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to
fet him free in ten years, if he turned Chriftian; upon
this, and Xury faying he was willing to go to him, I
let the Captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brafils, and am •
ved in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was once
more delivered from the moft miferable of all condi-
tions of life; and what to do next with myfelf, I was
now to confider.
The generous treatment the Captain gave me, I can
never enough remember; he would take nothing of me
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for the lion's fkin, which I had in my
boat, and caufed every thing I had in the ship to be
punftually delivered me, and what I was willing to. fell
he bought of me, fuch as the cafe of bottles, two of my
guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, for I had
made candles of the reft: in a word, I made about two
hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and
with this flock I went on fhore in the Brafils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the houfe of a good, honeft man, like himfelf, who
had an ingenio, as they call it, (that is, a plantation
and a fugar-houfe) I lived with him fome time, and
acquainted myfelf, by that means, with the manner of
their planting and making of fugar; and feeing how
well the planters lived, and how they got rich fuddenly,
I refolved, if I could get a licence to fettle there, I
D 4 would
would turn planter among them; refolving, in iht}
mean time, to find out fame way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement, fuel) a one as might be fuitable to the Rock which 1 propoled to myfelf to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguefe of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whofe name was Wells, and in
much fuch circumftances as I was. I call him my
neighbour, becaufe his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very fociably together. My stock was
but low, as well as his, and we rather planted for food
than any thing elfe, for about two years. However,
we began to increafe, and our land began to come into
order; fo that the third year we planted fome tobacco,
and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes in the year to come : but we both wanted
help, and now I found more than before, I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
Was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on;
I Was gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in,'
and for which I forfook my father's houfe, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I Was coming into
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life,
which my father advifed me to before; and which, if
I refolvcd to go on with, I might as well have Raid at
home, and never have fatigued mvfelf in the world as
I had done; and I ufed ofu n to fay to myfelf, " I could
"have done this as well in England, among my friends.
"as have gone five thoufand miles off to do it among
"ftrangers and favages, in a wildernefs, and at fuch a
"distance as never to hear from any part of the world
"that had the least knowledge of me."
In this manner I ufed to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had no body to converse with, but now and then this neighbour; no work to
be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I used to fay, I lived juft like a man caft away upon fome de-
folate ifland, that had nobody there but himfelf. But
how juft has it been, and how mould all men reflect,
that when they compare their prefent conditions with
others that are worfe, Heaven may oblige them to make
the exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity
by their experience: I fay, how just has it been, that
the truly folitary life I reflected on, in an ifland of mere
defolation, would be my lot, who had fo often tm-
juftly compared it with the life which I then led, in
which, had I continued, I had, in all probability,
been exceeding profperous and rich;
I was, in fome degree, fettled in my meafures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at fea, went back;
for the fhip remained there in providing his loading,
and preparing for his voyage, near three months; when,
telling him what little ftock I had left behind me in
London, he gave me this friendly and fincere advice:
"Seignior Inglefe," fays he, (for fo he always called
me) " if you will give me letters, and a procuration
"here in form, to me, with orders to the perfon who
*' has your money in London, to fend your effefts to
f to Lifbon, to fuch perfons as I mall direft, and in
ff fuch goods as gre proper for this country, I will
"bring
"bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
"return; but fince human affairs are all fubjeft to
"changes and difafters, I would have you give orders
"for but one hundred pounds sterling, which, you fay,
"is half your flock, and let the hazard be run for the
"firft; fo that if it come fafe, you may order the reft
"the fame way; and if it mifcarry, you may have the
"other half to have recourfe to for your supply." This was fo wholefome advice, and looked fo
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
beft courfe I could take; fo I accordingly prepared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguefe Captain,
as he desired me.
I wrote the English Captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my flavery, efcape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese Captain at fea, the huma-
nity of his behaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other neceflary direftions for my fupply;
and when this honeft Captain came to Lifbon, he-found
means, by fome of the Englifh merchants there, to
fend over, not the order only, but a full account of my
story to a merchant at London, who reprefented it
effeftually to her: whereupon fhe not only delivered
the money, but out of her own pocket fent the Por-
tuguefe Captain a very handfome prefent for his huma-
nity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vefting this hundred
pounds in Englifh goods, fuch as the Captain had writ
for, fent them directly to him at Lifbon, and he brought
them all fafe to me at the Brafils; among which, with^
out my direction (for I was too young in my bufinefs
to think of them) he had taken care to have all forts of
tools,
tools, iron-work, and utenfils necessary for my plan-
tation, and which were of great ufe to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was furprized with the joy of it; and my
good Reward, the Captain, had laid out the five pounds
which my friend had fent him for a prefent for himfelf,
to purchafe, and bring me over a fervant under bond
for fix years fervice, and would not accept of any con-
fideration except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all: but my goods being all English manufaftures, fuch as cloths, fluffs, baize, and things
particularly valuable and definable in the country, I
found means to fell them to a very great advantage; fo
that I might fay, I had more than four times the value
of my firft cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbour, I mean in the advancement of my
plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought me a
negro flave, and an European fervant alfo; I mean
another besides that which the Captain brought me
from Lifbon.
But as abufed profperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greateft adverfity, fo was it with me. I went on the next year with great fuccefs in my planta-
tion; I raifed fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground, more than I had difpofed of for neceflaries
among my neighbours; and thefe fifty rolls being each
of above 100 lb, were well cured, and laid by againft
the return of the fleet from Lifbon; and now increafing
in bufinefs and in wealth, my head began to be full of
projects and undertakings beyond my reach; fuch as
sre indeed often the ruin of the beft heads in bufinefs.
Had
Had I continued in the Ration I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me,
for which my father fo earneftly recommended a quiet,
retired life, and which he had fo fenfibly defcribed the
middle Ration of life to be full of; but other things at-
tended me, and I was ftill to be the wilful agent of all
my own miferies; and particularly to increafe my
fault, and double the reflections upon myfelf, which
in my future forrows I mould have leifure to make, all
thefe mifcarriages were procured by my apparent ob ftinate adhering to my foolifh inclination of wander-
ing abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contra-
diction to the clearest views of doing myfelf good in a
fair and plain purfuit of thofe profpeCts, and thofe mea-
fures of life, which Nature and Providence concurred
to prefent me with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from
my parents, fo I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to purfue a,
rash and immoderate defire of rifing fafter than the na-
ture of the thing admitted; and thus I caft myfelf down
again into the deepeftgulph of human mifery that ever
man fell into, or perhaps could be confiftent with life,
and a ftate of health in the world.
To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
this part of my ftory: You may fuppofe, that having
now lived almoft four years in the Brafils, and begin-
ning to thrive and profper-very well upon my planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow planters, as well as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that in my dif-
5 courfes
courfes among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast: of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the negroes there, and how
eafy it was to purchafe on the coaft for trifles, such as
beads, toys, knives, fciflars, hatchets, bits of glafs,
and the like, not only gold duft,, Guinea grains, ele-
phants teeth, &c. but negroes for the fervice of the
Brafils, in great numbers.
They liftened always very attentively to my dif-
courfes on thefe heads, but efpecially to that part which
related to the buying negroes, which was a trade, at
that time, not only not far entered into, but, as far as
it was, had been carried on by the Affientos, or per-
miffion of the King of Spain and Portugal, and en-
grofled from the public, fo that few negroes were
bought, and thofe exceffive dear.
It happened, being in company with fome merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them came to me the
next morning, and told me they had been muting very much upon what I had difcourfed with them of the Jaft
night, and they came to make a fecret propofal to me;
and after enjoining me to fecrecy, they told me that
they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea ; that
they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing fo much as fervants; that as it was a trade
that could not be carried on, becaufe they could not
publicly fell the negroes when they came home, fo
they defired to make but one voyage, to bring the ne-
groes on shore privately, and divide them among their
own plantations; and, in a word, the queftion was,
whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to-
manage the trading part upon the coaft of Guinea r and
. they
they offered me that I would have an equal mare of the
negroes, without providing any part of the Rock. ^L .
i
This was a fair propofal, it muft be confessed, had it hat A
been made to any one that had not a fettlement and „ f plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair •
iMprohjnn
way of coming to be very confiderable, and with a good
flock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and
eftablifhed, and had nothing to do but go on as I had
begun for three or four years more, and to have fent • t,
for the other hundred pounds from England, and whor , Was
in that time, and with that little addition, could fcarce'""
o
I w<
have failed of being worth three or four thoufand
pounds fterling, and that increafing too; for me to
think of fuch a voyage, was the moft prepofterous
thing that ever man, in fuch circumftances, could be
guilty of. ',
But I, that was born to be my own deftroyer, could
no more refift the offer, than I could restrain my firft ".'own j|
rambling defigns, when my father's good counfel was q *»iHe
left upon me. In a word, I told them, " I would go "I'toihe,
«' with all my heart, if they would undertake to look
"after my plantation in my abfence, and would dif-
"pofe of it to fuch as I should direct, if I mifcarried." f|i;c
This they all engaged to do, and entered into writings • T<I
or covenants to do fo; and I made a formal will, dif- c"Jy
pofing of my plantation and effects, in cafe of my "fyfc St.
death, making the captain of the fhip that had faved *fca, w
my life, as before, my univerfal heir ; but obliging him Abound f
to difpofe of my effects as I had direfted in my will; • ""'tourfe V
one half of the produce being to himfelf, and the other '""; in tji-
to be shipped to England. 'fy tiliie
In short, I took all poffible caution to preferve my Tts jz
effects, and to keep up my plantation; had I ufed half as t°tnado
much
much prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from fo profperous an undertaking, leaving all
the probable views of a thriving circumftance, and gone
upon a voyage to fea, attended with all its common
hazards; to fay nothing of the reafons I had to expect particular misfortunes to myfelf.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy rather than my reafon; and accordingly,
the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnifhed, and
all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour again,' the
firft of September, .1659, being the fame day eight
years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
in order to aft the rebel to their authority, and the fool
to my own intereft.
The fame day I went on board we fet fail, ftanding
away to the northward upon our own coast, with de-
fign to ftretch over for the African coaft. When they
came about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude,
which it feems was the manner of their courfe in thofe
days, we had very good weather, only excessive hot all
the way upon our own coaft, till we came to the height
of Cape St. Auguftino; from whence, keeping farther
off at fea, we loft fight of land, and fleered as if we
were bound for the ifle Fernando de Noronha, holding
our courfe N. E. by N. and leaving thofe ifles on the
eaft; in this courfe we paft the Line in about twelve
days time, and were, by our laft obfervation, in 7
degrees 22 minutes northern latitude, when a violent
tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our know-
ledge; it began from the fouth-eaft, came about to the
north-
north-weft, and then fettled in the north-eaft, from
whence it blew in fuch a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive,
and fcudding away before it, let it carry us whither
ever fate and the fury of the. winds directed ; and during
thefe twelve days, I need not fay that I expected every
day to be fwallowed up; nor indeed did any in the fhip""
expect to fave their lives.
In this diftrefs, we had befides the terror of the
ftorm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one
man and the boy washed overboard. About the iath
day, the weather abating a little, the mailer made an
obfervation as well as he could, and found that he wag
in about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22
degrees of longitude difference weft from cape St.
Auguftino; fo that he found that he was gotten upon
the coaft of Guiana, or the north part of Brafil, be-
yond the river Amazons, toward that of the river
Oroonoque, commonly called the Great River, and
began to confult with me what courfe he mould take, ^ianm
for the map was leaky and very much difabled, and he *°irelolc
was going directly back to the coast of Brafil.
I was pofitively against that, and looking over the
charts of the seacoast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourfe to, till we came within the circle of the Ca-
ribbee Iflands, and therefore refolved to Rand away for
Barbadoes; which, by keeping off to fear, to avoid the
in-draft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days fail;
whereas we could not poffibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa without foine affiftance, both to our
ship and ourfelves.
With
\Vith this defign we changed our courfe, and fleered
ilway N. W. by W. in order to reach fome of our
'Englifh islands, where I hoped for relief, but our
voyage was otherwife determined; for being in the la-
titude of 12 degrees 18 minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the fame impe>
tuofity westward, and drove us fo out of the very way
of all human commerce, that had all our lives been faved, as to the fea, we were rather in danger of being
devoured by favages than ever returning to our own
country.
In this diflrefs, the wind full blowing very hard,
one of our men, early in the morning, cried out land;
and we had no fooner run out of the cabin to look out,
in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the world we were,
but the ship struck upon a fand, and in a moment her
motion being fo flopped, the fea broke over her in
fuch a manner, that we expected we should all have
perifhed immediately, and we were immediately driven
into ourclofe quarters, to melter us from the very foam
and fpray of the fea.
It is not eafy for any one who has not been in the
like condition, to defcribe or conceive the confterna-
tion of men in fuch circumflances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were driven, whether an ifland or the main, whether inha-
bited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was
ftill great, though rather lefs than at firft, we could
not fo much as hope to have the ship hold many mi-
nutes, without breaking in pieces, unlefs the wind, by
a kind of miracle, would immediately turn about. In
a word, we fat looking upon one another, and expect- ing death every moment; and every managing ac-
VOL. L E cordingly,
cordingly, as preparing for another world, for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that
which was our prefent comfort, and all the comfort we
had was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the mafter faid the wind
began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the fhip having thus ftruck upon the fand,
and fticking too faft for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do, but to think of faving our lives as well as
we could; we had a boat at our stern just before the
ftorm, but me was first staved by dashing againft the
ship's rudder, and in the next place the broke away,
and either funk, or was driven off to fea, fo there was
no hope from her; we had another boat on board, but
how to get her off into the fea was a doubtful thing;
however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied
the ship would break in pieces every minute, andfome
told us fhe was actually broken already.
In this diftrefs, the mate of our veflel lays hold of
the boafc, and with the help of the reft of the men, they
got her flung over the fhip's fide, and getting all into her,
let her go, and committed ourfelves, being eleven in
number," to God's mercy, and the wild fea; for though
the ftorm was abated confiderably, yet the fea went
dreadful high upon the shore, and might be well
called, " den wild zee," as the Dutch call the fea in a
ftorm.
And now our cafe was very difmal indeed; for we
all faw plainly, that the fea went fo high, that the boat
could not live, and that we should be inevitably drown-
ed. As to making fail, we had none, nor, if we had,
could
Could we have done any thing with it; fo we worked
at the oar towards the land, though, with heavy hearts,
like men going to execution; for we all knew, that
when the boat came nearer to the shore, fhe would be
dashed in a thoufand pieces by the breach of the fea.
•However we committed our fouls to God in the moft
earnest manner, and the wind driving us towards the
fhore, we hastened our deftruftion with our own hands,
pulling as well as we could towards land.
What the fhore was, whether rock or fand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the leaft shadow of expectation, was,
if we might happen into fome bay or gulph, or the
mouth of fome river, where by great chance we might
have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land,
and perhaps made fmooth water. But there was no-
thing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the fea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, moun-
tain-like, came rolling a ftern of us, and plainly bade
us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us
with fuch a fury, that it overfet the boat at once; and
feparating us as well from the boat, as from one ano-
ther, gave us not time hardly to fay, " O God!" for
we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can defcribe theconfufion of thought which
I felt, when I funk, into the water; for though I
fwam very well, yet I could not deliver myfelf from
the waves fo as to draw my breath, till that wave
having driven me, or rather carried me a vaft vyay on
towards the shore, and having fpent itself, went back,
£ 2 and
and left me upon the land almoft dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had fo much prefence of
mind, as well as breath left, that feeing myfelf nearer
the main land than I expefted, I got upon my feet,
and endeavoured to make on towards the land as fart as I could, before another wave would return and take
me up again "P but I foon found it was impoffible to-
avoid it; for I saw the fea come after me as high as a
great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no
means or ftrength to contend with; my bufinefs was
to hold my breath, arid raife myfelf upon the water, if
I could; and fo by swimming to preserve my breath-
ing, and pilot myfelf towards the more, if poffible;
my greateft concern now being, that the wave, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back again with it, when
it gave back towards the fea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
?.o or 30 feet deep in its own body; and I could feel
myfelf carried with a mighty force and fwiftnefs to-
wards the more, a very great way ; but I held my breath,
and affifted myfelf to fwim ftill forward with all my
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as I felt myfelf rifmg up, fo, to my immediate
relief, I found my head and hands moot out above the
furface of the water; and though it was not two feconds of time that I could keep myfelf fo, yet it re-
lieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I
was covered again with water a good while, but not fo
long but I held it out; and finding the water had fpent
itfelf, and began to return, I ftruck forward againft the
return of the waves, and felt ground again with my
feet. I ftood ftill a few moments, to recover breath,
and
ad till the H

C.Mete. Jet.v
J Us, and n
• nidi the ft
anc
', if carried f<
V
ai for the (
or
^ and that
ng m;
, I
Covered
*S breath
am
• that
drat*.
and till the water went from me, and then took to my
heels, and ran with what strength I had, farther to-
wards the shore. But neither would this deliver me
from the fury of the fea, which came pouring in after
me again, and twice more I was lifted up by the waves,
and carried forwards as before, the shore being very
flat.
The laft time of thefe two had well near been fatal to
me; for the fea having hurried me along, as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me against a piece of a
rock, and that with fuch force, as it left me fenfelefs,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow taking my fide and breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite out of my body; and had it returned again
immediately, I muft have been strangled in the water;
but I recovered a little before the return of the Waves,
and feeing I should again be covered with the water, 1
refolved to hold faft by a piece of the rock, and fo to
hold my breath, if poffible, till the wave went back;
now as the waves were not fo high as the firft, being
nearer land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and
then fetched another run, which brought me fo near
the fhore, that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not fo fwallow me up as to carry me away,
and the next run I took, I got to the main land ; where,
to my great comfort, I clambered up the clifts of the
shore, and fat me down upon the grafs, free from dan-
ger, and quite out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and fafe on shore, and began to
look up and thank God, that my life was saved, in a cafe, wherein there were, fome minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impoffible to exprefs,
to the life, what the ecftafies and transports of the foul
- £3'
are, when it is fo saved, as I may fay, out of the grave;
and I did not wonder now at the cuftom, viz. that
when a malefaftor, who has the halter about his neck,
is tied up, and juft going to be turned off, and has a
reprieve brought to him; I fay, I do not wonder that
they bring a furgeon with it, to let him blood that
very moment they tell him of it, that the furprife may
not drive the animal fpirits from the heart, and over-
whelm him.
"For fudden joys, like griefs, confound at first." I walked about on the fhore, lifting up my hands;
and my whole being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thoufand
gestures and motions, which I cannot defcribe, reflect- ing upon all my comrades that were drowned, and,
that there would not be one foul faved but myself ; for,
as for them, I never faw them afterwards, or any fign
of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two
shoes, that were not fellows.
I craft my eyes to the flranded veflel, when the beach
and froth of the fea being fo big, I could hardly fee it,
(it lay fo far off) and confidered, Lord! how was it
possible I could get on fhore?
After I had folaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to
fee what kind of a place I was in, and what was next
to be done; and I foon found my comforts abate, and
that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was
wet, had no clothes to miff me, nor any thing either to
eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I fee any pro-
fpeft before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or
being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which was
particularly
particularly afflifting to me was, that I had no weapon,
either to hunt and kill any creature for mv fufte-
nance, or to defend myfelf against any other creature
that might defire to kill me for theirs In a wok, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and
a little tobacco in a box. This was all my provifion,
and this threw me into fuch terrible agonies of mind,
that, for a while, I run about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to con fider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous
beafts in that country, feeing at night they always come
abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that
time, was, to get up into a thick, bushy tree, like a
fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and where I re-
folved to fit all night, and confider the next day what
death I fhould die, for as yet I faw no profpeft of .ife.
I walked about a furlong from the shore, to fee if I
could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my
great joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco
in my mouth, to prevent hunger, I went to the tree,
and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myfelf fo,
as that if I fhould fleep I might not fall; and having
cut me a fhort Hick, like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging, and having been excessively fatigued, I fell fail afleep, and flept as comfortably as, I
believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myfelf the moft refreshed with it that I think I
ever was on fuch an occafion.
When I waked, it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the ftorm abated, fo that the fea did not rage and
fwell as before; but that which furprized me move, was,
that the ship was lifted off in the night from the fand
^ 4 where
where she lay, by the fwelling of the tide, and was
driven up almoft as far as the rock which I first men-
tioned, where I had been fo bruifed by the darning me
againft it. This being within about a mile from the
shore where I was, and the fhip feeming to stand up-
right ftill, I wished myself on board, that at leaft I
might fave fome neceflary things for my ufe.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the firft thing I found
was the boat, which lay, as the wind and the.fea had
tofled her up, upon the land, about two miles on my
right-hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water
between me and the boat, which was about half a mile
broad; fo I came back for the prefent, being more in-
tent upon getting at the fhip, where I hoped to find
fomething for my prefent fubfiftence.
A little after noon, I found the fea -very calm, andthe tide ebbed fo far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship ; and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I faw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all fafe, that is-to fay,
we had all got fafe on fhore, and I had not been fo
miferable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that, I
resolved, if poffible, to get to the flap ; fo I pulled off
my cloaths, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water: but when I came to the ship, my dif-
ficulty was ftill greater to know how to get on board;
for as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of; I fwam
round her twice, and the fecond time I fpied a fmall
piece ;'
piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not fee at
firft, hang down by the fore-chains fo low, as that,
with great difficulty, I got hold of it, and by the help
of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I
found that the flap was bulged, and had a great deal of
water in her hold, but that fhe lay fo on the fide of a
bank of hard fand, or rather earth, that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank, and her head low, almoft to
the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry; for you may be fure
my firft work was to fearch and to fee what was fpoiled
and what was free: and first I found that all the ship's provifions were dry and untouched by the water; and,
being very well difpofed to eat, I went to the bread-
room, and filled my pockets with bifcuit, and eat it as
I went about other things, for I had no time to lofe. I
alfo found fome rum in the great cabin, of which I
took a large dram, and of which I had indeed need
enough of, to fpirit me for what was before me. Now
I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnifh myfelf with
many things which I forefaw would be very neceflary
to me.
It was in vain to fit ttill, and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity roufed my application:
we had feveral spare yards, and two or three large fpars
pf wood, and a spare top-maft or two in the ship ; I re-
folved to fall to work with thefe, and flung as many
overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying
every one with a rope, that they might not drive away.
When this was done, I went down the ship's fide, and
pulling them to me, I tied four of them faft together at
both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and
laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them,
crofs
crofs ways, I found I could walk upon it very well,
but that it -was not able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too light: fo I went to work, and
-with the carpenter's faw, I cut a fpare top-maft into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. But the hope of furnifhing
myself with neceflaries, encouraged me to go beyond
what I mould have been able to have done upon ano-
ther occafion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason- able'weight. My next care was what to load it with,
and how to preferve what I laid upon it from the furf
of the Tea; but I was not long confidering this: I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having confidered well what I moft wanted, I first got three of the feamens chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft; the first of thefe I filled with provisions, viz.
bread, rice, three Dutch cheefes, five pieces of dried
goats flefh, which we lived much upon, and a little re-
mainder of European corn, which had been laid by for
fome fowls which we had brought to fea with us, but
the fowls were killed. There had been fome barley
and wheat together, but, to my great difappointmerit,
I found afterwards, that the rats had eaten or fpoiled
it all. As for liquors, I found several cafes of bottles
belonging to our fkipper, in which were fome cordial
waters; and, in all, about five or fix gallons of rack.
Thefe I flowed by themselves, there being no need to
put them into the cheft, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow,
though very calm; and I had the mortification to fee
my coat, fhirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on
fhoro
Gore, upon the fand, fwim away;' as for my breeches,
which were only linen, and open-kneed, I fwam on
board in them, and my ftockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for cloaths, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for prefent
ufe, for I had other things which my eye was more
upon ; as, first, tools to work with on more ; and it was
after long fearching that I found the carpenter's cheft,
which was indeed a very ufeful prize to me, and much
more valuable than a fhip-loading of gold would have
been at that time. I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without lofirig time to look into if,
for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for fome ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two piftols; thefe I fecured fire, with fome
powder-horns and a fmall bag of mot, and two old
rufty fwords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner
had flowed them, but with much fearch I found them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Thofe two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myfelf pretty well freighted, and began to
think how I should get to shore with them, having
neither fail, oar, nor rudder; and the leaft cap-full of
wind would have overfet all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: i. A fmooth, calm
fea. 2. The tide rifing, and fetting in to the more.
3. What little wind there was, blew me towards the
land. And thus, having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and befides the tools which
were in the chest, I found two faws, an axe, and a
hammer ; and with this cargo I put to fea. For a mile,
or
or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I
found it drive a little diftant from the place where I had
landed before, by which I perceived that there was
fome in-draft of the water, and confequently I hoped
to find fome creek or river there, which I might make
ufe of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, fo it was: there appeared before me
a little opening of the land, and I found a ftrong cur-
rent of the tide fet into it; fo I guided my raft, as well
as I could, to get into the middle of the ftream. But
here I had like to have suffered a fecond shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have broke my
my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft
run aground at one end of it upon a fhoal, and not
being aground at the other end, it wanted but a little
that all my cargo had flipped off to wards that end that
was afloat, and fo fallen into the water. I did my ut-
rnoft, by fetting my back againft the chefts, to keep
them in their places, but could not thruft off the raft
with all my ftrength, neither durst I stir from the po-
fture I was in, but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in
which time the rifing of the water brought me a little
more upon a level; and a little after, the water ftill
rifing, my raft floated again, and I thruft her off with
the oar I had into the channel, and then driving up
higher, I at length found myfelf in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both fides, and a ftrong current or
tide running up: I looked on both fides for a proper
place to get to fhore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping, in time, to fee fome fhip
at fea, and therefore refolved to place myself as near
the coaft as I could.
At
At length I fpied a little cove on the right fhore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I
guided my raft, and at laft got fo near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into
the fea again; for that more lying pretty fteep, that is
to fay, Hoping, there was no place to land, but where
one end of my float, if it run on shore, would lie fo
high, and the other fink lower, as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to
wait till the tide was at the higheft, keeping the raft
with my oar like an anchor, to hold the fide of it faft to
the more, near a flat piece of ground, which I expefted
the water would flow over, and fo it did. As foon as
I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of
water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and
there fastened or moored her, by flicking my two
broken oars into the ground, one on one fide, near one
end, and one on the other fide, near the other end;
and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my
raft and all my cargo fafe on fhore.
My next work was to view the country, and feek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to Row my
goods, to fecure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the conti-
nent, or on an ifland; whether inhabited, or not
inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not.
There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which
rofe up very fteep and high, and which feemed to
over-top fome other hills, which lay as in a ridge
from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling-
pieces, and one of the piftols, and an horn of powder;
and thus armed, I travelled for difcovery up to the top
of that hill, where, after I had, with great labour and
5 difficulty,
difficulty, got up to the top, I faw my fate, to my great
affliction, viz. that I was in an island, environed every
way with the fea, no land to be feen, except fome rocks,
which lay a great way off, and two fmall iflands, lefs
than this, which lay about three leagues to the weft.
I found alfo, that the ifland I was in was barren, and,
as I saw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, except by
wild beafts, of whom, however, I faw none; yet I
law abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds;
neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I met at a great bird, which I faw fitting upon a tree, on the
fide of a great wood. I believe it was the first gun that
had been fired there fince the creation of the world: I
had no fooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood
there arofe an innumerable number of fowls, of many
forts, making a confufed fcreaming, and crying every
one'according to his ufual note; but not one of them
of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed,
I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak,
refembling it, but had no talons or claws more than
common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this difcovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which
took me up the reft of that day: what to do with my-
felf at night I knew not, nor indeed where to reft; for
I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing
but fome wild beaft might devour me; though, as I
afterwards found, there was really no need for thofe
fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myfelf
round with the chests and boards that I had brought on
shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's lodg-
ing.
ingt As for food, I yet faw not which way to supply myfelf, except that I had feen two or three creatures,
like hares, run out of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to confider, that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to
me, and particularly fome of the rigging and fails, and
fuch other things as might come to land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board the veflel, if poffible.
And as I knew, that the firft storm that blew muft ne-
ceffarily break her all in pieces, I refolved to fet all
other things apart, till I got every thing out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council, that is to
fay, in my thoughts, whether I would take back the
raft; but this appeared imprafticable: fo I refolved to
go as before, when the tide was down; and I did fo,
only that I ftripped before I went from my hut, having
nothing on but a chequered shirt, and a pur of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the fhip as before, and prepared a fe*
cond raft; and having had experience of the firft, I nei-
ther made this fo unweildy, nor loaded it fo hard, but
yet I brought away feveral things very ufeful to me: as,
first, in the carpenter's ftores, I found two or three
bags full of nails and fpikes, a great fcrcw-jack, a dozen
or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most ufeful
thing called a grindstone. All thefe I fecured toge-
ther, with feveral things belonging to the gunner, par-
ticularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of
mufquet bullets, feven mufquets, and another fowling
piece, with fome fmall quantity of powder more; a
large bag-full of fmallmot, and a great roll of fheet-
lead; but this laft was fo heavy, I could not hoist it up
to get it over the ship's fide,
Befides
Befides thefe things, I took all the men's cloaths that
I could find, and a fpare fore-top fail, a hammock, and
fome bedding; and with this I loaded my fecond raft,
and brought them all fafe on shore, to my very great
comfort.
I was under fome apprehenfioris, during my abfence
from the land, that at leaft my provifions might be de-
voured on shore; but when I came back, I found no
fign of any vifitor, only there fat a Creature, like a wild
cat, upon one ofthechefts, which, when I came to-
wards it, ran away a little diftance, and then flood ttill.
She fat very composed and unconcerned, and looked
full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted
with me. I prefented. my gun at her, but, as fhe did
not underftand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it,
nor did fhe offer to ftir away; upon which I toffed her
a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very
free of it, for my flore was not great: however, I fpared
her a bit, I fay, and fhe went to it, smelled of it, and
eat it, and looked (as pleafed) for more ; but I thanked
her, and could fpare no more: fo fhe marched off.
Having got my fecond cargo on shore, though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large cafks, I went to work to make me a little tent with the fail, and
fome poles which I cut for that purpose, and into this
tent I brought every thing that I knew would fpoil,
either with rain or fun, and I piled all the empty chefts
and cafks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it
from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast. When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with fome boards within, and an empty cheft fee
up on end without, and fpreadingone of the beds upon
the
the ground, laying my two piftols juft at my head, and
my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the firft
time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very
weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept little,
and had labored very hard all day, as well to fetch all
thofe things from the ship as to get them on shore. I had the biggeft magazine, of all kinds now, that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not fatisfied flill: for while the fhip fat upright in that
pofture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of her
that I could: fo every day, at low water, I went on board, and brought away fomething or other; but par-
ticularly the third time I went, I brought away as much
of the rigging as I could, as alfo all the small ropes and
rope-twine I could get, with a piece of fpare canvas,
which was to mend the fails upon occafion, and the
barrel of wet gun-powder. In a word, I brought away
all the fails firft and laft, only that I was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could;
for they were no more ufeful to be fails, but as mere
canvas only.
But that which comforted me more ftill was, that,
laft of all, after I had made five or fix fuch voyages as
thefe, and thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with; I fay, after
all this, Ifound a great hogfhead of bread, and three
large runlets of rum or fpirits, and a box of fugar, and
a barrel of fine flour; this was furprizing to me, be-
caufe I had given over expecting any more provifions,
except what was fpoiled by the water; I foon emptied
the hogfhead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel
by parcel, in pieces of the fails, which I cutout; and,
in a word, I got all this fafe on fhoie alfo.
VOL. I. F The
The next day I made another voyage, and now hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to
hand out, I began with the cables, and cutting the
great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I got
two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-
work I could get; and having cut down the fpritfail-
yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could, to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all thofe heavy goods;
and came away; but my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was fo unweildy, and fo over-loaden,
that after I was entered the little cove, where I had
landed the reft of my goods, not being able to guide it
fo handily as I did the other, it overfet, and threw me
and all my cargo into the water; as for myfelf, it was
no great harm, for I was near the shore ; but as to my
cargo, it was great part of it loft, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great ufe to me;
however, when the tide was out, I got moft of the
pieces of cable afhore, and fome of the iron, though
with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me very much; after
this I went every day on board, and brought away what
I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on more, and had been
eleven times on board the fhip; in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
fuppofed capable to bring, though I believe verily, had
the calm weather held, I would have brought away the
whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rife;
however, at low water, I went on board; and though
I thought I had rummaged the cabin fo effeaually, as
that nothing more could be found, yet I difcovered a
locker
locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two
or three razors, and one pair of large fciflars, with fome
ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I
found about thirty-fix pounds value in money, fome
European coin, fome Brafil, fome pieces of eight, fome
gold, and fome filver.
I fmiled to myfelf at the fight of this money: O drug!
faid I aloud, what art thou good for? Thou art not
Worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground; one
of thofe knives is worth all this heap: I have no man-
ner of ufe for thee; even remain where thou art, and
go to the bottom,' as a creature whofe life is not worth
saving. However, upon second thoughts, I took it
away; and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I
began to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing this, I found the fky over-caft, and the
wind began to rife, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore ; it prefently occurred to
me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with
the wind off more; and that it was my bufinefs to be
gone before the tide of flood began, or ptherwife I
might not be able to reach the shore at all; according-
ly I let myfelf down into the water, and swam acrofs
the channel which lay between the fhip and the lands,
and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the
weight of the things I had about me, and partly the
roughnefs of the water; for the wind rofe very haftily,
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm. But I was gotten home to my little tent, where Hay,
with all my wealth about me, very fecure. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked
out, behold, no more ship was to be feen: I was a little
furprized, but recovered myfelf with this fatisfaftory
F a refleftion,
reflection, viz. That I had loft no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get every thing out of her that could be
ufeful to me, and that indeed there was little left in
her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more
time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the fhip, or
of any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore, from her wreck; as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but thofe things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly'employed about fe-
curing myfelf againft either favages, if any should ap-
pear, or wild beafts, if any were in the ifland; and I
had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and
what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should make
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and,
in fhort, I resolved upon both; the manner and de-
fcription of which, it may not be improper to give an
account of.
I foon found the place I was in was not for my feet- tlement, particularly becaufe it was upon a low, moor-
ilh ground, near the fea, and I believed it would not
be wholefome, and more particularly becaufe there was
no frem water hear it; fo I refolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient fpot of ground.
I confulted feveral things in my fituation, which I
found would be proper for me: ift, Health and fresh water I juft now mentioned, sadly, Shelter from the
heat of the fun. 3dly, Security from ravenous crea-
tures, whether men or beafts. 4thly, A view to the .'
fea, that if God fent any ship in fight, I might not lofe
any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was not 1
willing to banish all my expectation yet.' lI
In 4
In fearch for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the fide of a rifing hill, whofe front towards
this little plain was fleep' as a houfe-fide, fo that no*
thing could come down upon me from the top; on the
fide of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little
way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there
was not really any cave, or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, juft before this hollow place,
I refolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
an hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and
lay like a green before my door, and at the end of it
defcended irregularly every way down into the low-
ground by the fea-fide. It was on the N. N. W. fide
of the hill; fo that it was sheltered from the heat every
day, till it came to a W. and by S. fun, or thereabouts,
which, in thofe countries, is near the setting. Before 1 fet up my tent, I drew a- half circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
femi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending;
In this half circle I pitched two rows of ftrong flakes,
driving them into the ground till they flood very firm
like piles, the biggeft end being out of the ground about
five feet and an half, and sharpened on the top. The
two rows did not stand above fix inches from one an-
other.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows, one upon another,
within the circle, between thefe two rows offtakes, up
to the top, placing other flakes in the infide, leaning
againft them, about two feet and an half high, like a
fpur to a poft; and this fence was fo ftrong, that nei-
ther man or beast could get into it or over it. This
F 3 coft
coil me a great deal of time and labour, especially to
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and
drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and fo I
was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and confequently flept fecure in the
night, which otherwife I could not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger
from.
Into this fence, or fortrefs, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provifions, ammunition,
and ftores, of which you have the account above, and I
made me a large tent, which, to preferve me from the
rains, that in one part of the year are very violent there,
I made double, viz. one fmaller tent within, and one
larger tent above it, and covered the uppermoft with a
large tarpaulin, which I had faved among the fails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had "brought on fhore, but in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of
the ship. Into this tent I brought all my provifions, and every
thing that would fpoil by the wet; and having thus en-
clofed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which
till now I had left open, and fo paired and repafled, as
I faid, by a fhort ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that
I dug down, out through my tent, I laid them up with-
in my fence in the nature of a terrace, fo that it raifed
the
the ground within about a foot and an half; and thus
I made me a cave, just behind my tent, which ferved
me like a cellar to my houfe. It coft me much labour
and many days, before all thefe things were brought to
perfection ; and therefore I muft go back to fome other
things which took up fome of my thoughts. At the
fame time it happened, after I had laid my fcheme for
the fetting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a fudden
flame of lightning happened, and after that, a great
clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it; I was
not fo much furprifed with the lightning, as I was
with a thought, which darted into my mind as fwift as
the lightning itfelf: O my powder! My very heart
funk within me, when I thought, that at one blaft, all
my powder might be deftroyed; on which, not my de-
fence only, but the providing me food, as I thought,
entirely depended; I was nothing near fo anxious
about my own danger, though, had the powder took
fire, I had never known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the ftorm was over, I laid afide all my works, my build-
ing and fortifying, and applied myfelf to make bags and
boxes, to feparate the powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in'hope that whatever might
come, it might not all take fire at once, and to keep it
fo apart, that it would not be poffible to make one part
fire another: I finifhed this work in about a fortnight;
and I think my powder, which in all was about 240lb. weight, was divided in not lefs than a hundred parcels j
as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend
any danger from that; fo I placed it in my new cave,
which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the reft
F 4 I hid,
I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, fo that
no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where
I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out at leaft once every day with my gun, as well to
divert myfelf, as to fee if I could kill any thing fit for
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myfelf with
what the ifland produced. The Grit time I went out,
I prefently discovered, that there were goats upon the
island, which was a great fatisfaftion to me; but then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. That
they were fo My, fo fubtile, and fo fwift of foot, that
it was the difRculteft thing in the world to come at
them: but I was not difcouraged at this, not doubting,
but I might now and then shoot one, as it foon hap-
pened; for after I had found their haunts a little, I
laid wait in this manner for them: I obferved, if they:
faw me in the valleys, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon •.
the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I ,
concluded, that by the pofition of their optics, their ,
fight was fo directed downward, that they did not rea- ^
dily fee objects that were above them; fo, afterwards,
I took this method: I always climbed the rocks firft, to
get above them, and then had frequently a fair mark.
The firft mot I made among thefe creatures, I killed a
Ihe-goat, which had a little kid by her, which me gave
fuck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old
one fell, the kid stood flock ftill by her, till I came and
took her up: and not only fo, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed
me quite to my enclosure ; upon which, I kid down
the :Jl
the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it
over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame, but it
would not eat; fo I was forced to kill it, and eat it my-
felf. Thefe two fupplied me with flesh a great while,
for I eat fparingly, and preferved my provifions (my
bread efpecially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abfo-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fewel-to burn ; and what I did for that, as alfo
how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made,
I fhall give a full account of it in its proper place; but
I must firft giveTome little account of myfelf, and of my
thoughts about living, which, it may well be fuppofed,
were not a few.
I had a difmal profpeft of my condition; for as I was
not call away upon that ifland, without being driven,
as is faid, by a violent ftorm, quite out of the-courfe
of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz. fome
hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary courfe of the
trade of mankind, I had greatreafon to confider it as a
determination of Heaven, that in this defolate place,
and in this defolate manner, I would end my life: the
tears would run plentifully down my face, when I
made thefe refleftions ; and, fometimes, I would ex- poftulate with myfelf, " Why Providence should thus
completely ruin its creatures, and render them fo abfo-
lutely miferable; fo without help abandoned, fo en-
tirely deprefled, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for fuch a life,"
But fomething always returned fwift upon me, to
check thefe thoughts, and to reprove me: and par-
ticularly, one day walking with my gun in my hand,
by the seaside, I was. very pensive upon the subject of
my
L
% v
my prefent condition, when reafon, as it were, expo-
ftulated with me the other way, thus: " Well, you
are in a defolate condition, it is true ; but, pray remem-
ber, where are the reft of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why
were not they faved, and you loft? Why were you
fingledout? Is it better to be here or there?" And
then I pointed to the fea. All evils are to be confidered
with the good that is in them, and with what worfe at-
tends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur nifhed for my fubfiftence, and what would have been
my cafe if it had not happened (which was a hundred
.thoufand to one) that the (ship floated from the place
where fhe first struck, and was driven fo near to the
shore, that I had time to get all thefe things out of her.
What would have been my cafe, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at firft came on more,
without necessaries of life, or necessaries to fupply and
procure them? Particularly, faid I aloud, (though to
myfelf) what would I have done without a gun, with-
out ammunition, without any tools to make any thing,
or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or
any manner of covering; and that now, I had all thefe
to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to pro-
vide myfelf in fuch a manner as to live without my
gun, when my ammunition was fpent: fo that I had a
tolerable view of fubfifting, without any want, as long
as I lived; for I confidered, from the beginning, how
I would provide for the accidents that might happen,
and for the time that was to come, even not only after
my ammunition mould be fpeht, but even after my
health or strength should decay.
S I confefs
R(
Icrafcfs, I l
munition bei
H{r king b
Noughts of i
nl thundered,
Wnow, bei
is fenc of f the, ;, and <
the
«8 above faj
a;when this was aim
W 22 minutes,
I had be cvw for
ge
'***• I fcti
I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being deftroyed at one blaft, I mean my
powder being blown up by lightning; and this made
the thoughts of it fo furprizing to me, when it lightened
and thundered, as I obferved just now.
And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation"
of a fcene of filent life, fuch perhaps, as was never
heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its
beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by
my account, the 3oth of September, when, in the man-
ner as above faid, I firft fet foot upon this horrid
ifland; when the fun being, to us, in its autumnal
equinox, was almoft juft over my head; for I reckoned
myfelf, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 de-
grees 22 minutes, north of the Line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts, that I should lose my reckon-
ing of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and
fhould even forget the fabbath days from the working
days; but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon
a large poft, in capital letters, and making it into a
great crofs, I fet it upon the more where I firft landed,
viz. " I came on shore here, on the 3Oth of Septem-
"ber, 1659." Upon the fides of this fquare poft, I
cut every day a notch with my knife, and every
feventh notch was as long again as the reft; and every
firft day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time, t
But it happened, that among the many things which
I brought out of the ship, in the several voyages, which,
as above mentioned, I made to it, I got feveral things
of lefs value, but not at all lefs ufeful to me, which I
found
76'
R<
ADVENTURES OF
found forae time after, in rummaging the chefs ; as,
in particular, pens, ink, and paper, feveral parcels in
the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keep-
ing; three or four conipafles, fome mathematical in-
ftruments, dials, perfpeftives, charts, and books of
navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I
might want them or no: alto I found three very good
bibles,1 which came to me in my cargo from England,
and which I had packed up among my things; fome
Portuguefe books alfo, and among them, two or three
Popifii prayer books, and feveral other books, all which
I carefully fecured. And I muft not forget, that we
had in the fhip a dog, and two cats, of whofe eminent
history I may have occafion to fay. fomething in its
place: for I carried both the cats with me; and as for
the dog, he jumped out of the fhip himfelf, and swam on fhore to me the day after I went on shore with my
firft cargo, and was a trufty feryant to me for many
years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any company that he could make up to me; I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not do.
As I obferved before, I found pen, ink, and paper,
and I hufbanded them to the utmoft; and I mail fhew,
that while my ink lafted, I kept things very exaft, but
after that was gone, I could not; for I could not make
any ink, by any means that I could devise. And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithftanding all that I had amafled together; and
and of thefe, this of ink was one, as alfo a fpade, pick-
axe and shovel, to dig, or remove the earth; needles,
pins, and thread: as for linen, I foon learned to want
that without much difficulty,
This
This want of
lavily, and it v
alffinjlhed m
Ik piles or flak
'iii lift, were a 1
'•floods, and
talfpentfomc
one of i
into the groun
?K of wood at
iron
. et it m
*iousand ted
••warned at
I could fon
l f« food
«nj0y,
This want of tools, made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year, before I had en-
tirely finished my little pale, or furrounded habitation:
The piles or flakes, which were as heavy as I could
well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more by far in bringing home; fo
that I fpent fometimes two days in cutting and bring-
ing home one of thofe pofts, and a third day in driving
it into the ground; for which purpofe, I got a heavy
piece of wood at nrft, but at iaft bethought myfelf of
one of the iron crows; which, however, though I
found it, yet it made driving thefe puts, or piles, very
laborious and tedious work. But what need I have
been concerned at the tedioufnefs of any thing I had to
do, feeing I had time enough to do it in; nor had I
any other employment, if that had been over, at leaft
that I could forefee, except the ranging the illand
to feek for food; which I did, more or lefs, every
day.
I now began to confider ferioufly my condition, and
the circumftance I was reduced to; and I drew up the
fate of my affairs in writing, not fo much to leave them to any that were to come after me, for I was like to
have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind; and
as my reafon began now to mailer my defpondency, I
began to comfort myfelf as well as I could, and to
fet the good againft the evil, that I might have forms thing to diftinguifh my cafe from worfe; and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the
comforts I enjoyed against the miferies I fuffered,
thus:
EVIL*
ADVENTURES OF
EVIL.
GOOD.
But I am alive, and not drowned, as all my {ship's com-
pany were.
But I am fingled out too from
all the fhip's crew, to be' fpared
from death; and He that mira-
culoufly faved me from death,
can deliver me from this con"
dition.
But I am not starved, and
perishing in a barren place, af-
fording no sustenance. But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had cloaths, I could
hardly wear them.
But I am caft on an island, where I fee no wild beasts to
hurt me, as I faw on the coast of Africa: and what if I had
been shipwrecked there?
But God wonderfully fent
the ship in near enough to the
shore, that I have gotten out fo
many ncceflary things as will
either supply my wants, or
enable me to fupply myself, even as long as I live.
\
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was fcarce any condition in the world fo
miferable, but there was fomething negative, or some- thing pofitive, to be thankful for in it; and let this
Rand as a direction, from the experience of the moft
miferable
I am caft upon a horrible,
defolate ifland, void of all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out and spa- rated, as it were, from all the
world, to be miferable.
I am divided from man-
kind, a folitaire; one banifli-
ed from human society. I have no cloaths to cover
me. I am without any defence,
or means to refill any violence
of man or bead.
I have no foul to fpeak to,
er relieve me.
ini>leofall<
m find in it
alttfrt, in th
unlit Sde of the
Having now I
, and g
dfpyafhi
to apply
f|& »nd to m
!l»c already,
Winder the fid
feet tl
V think it v
Cleaning ,
!'«Uoughs of
it;.
miferable of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it fomething to comfort ourfelves from,
and to fet, in the defcription of good and evil, on the
credit fide of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and giving over looking out to fea, to fee if
I could fpy a fhip; I fay, giving over thefe things, I
began to apply myfelf to accommodate my way of
living, and to make things as eafy to me as I could.
I have already defcribed my habitation, which was a
tent under the fide of a rock, furrounded with a strong pale of pofts and cables, but I might now rather call it
a wall, for I raifed a kind of wall against it of turfs,
about two feet thick on the outfide; and, after fome
time, I think it was a year and a half, I raifed rafters
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered
it with boughs of trees, and fuch things as I could get
to keep out the rain; which I found, at fome times of
the year, very violent.
I have already obferved how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I muft obferve too, that at firft this
was a confufed heap of goods, which, as they lay in no
order, fo they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myfelf: fo I fet myself to enlarge my cave, and
work farther into the earth, for it was a loose, fandy
rock, which yielded easily to the labour I beftowed on
it; and fo when I found I was pretty fafe, as to beafts
of prey, I worked fideways to the right-hand, into the
rock, and then turning to the right again, worked
quite out, and made me a door to come out in the out-
fide of my pale or fortification.
This
This gave me not only egrefs and regress, as it were
a back way to my tent and to my ftore-houfe, but gave
me room to Row my goods.
And now I began to apply myfelf to make fitch ne-
ceflary things as I found I moft wanted, particularly a
chair and a table, for without thefe I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could not
write, or eat, or do feveral things with fo much plea-
fure without a table. So I went to work: and here I
muft needs obferve, that as reafon is the fubftance and
original of the mathematicks, fo by ftating and fquaring
every thing by reafon, and by making the moft rational
judgment of things, every man maybe, in time, mafter
of every mechanic art. I had .never handled a tool in
my life; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and
contrivance, I found at laft, that I wanted nothing but
I could have made it, efpecially if I had had tools.
However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and fome, with no more tools than an adze and
a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way
before, and that with infinite labour: for example, if
I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down
a tree, fet it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either fide with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin
as a plank, and then dub it fmooth with my adze. It
is true, by this method I could make but one board out
of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy for but pa-
tience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal of
time and labour which it took me up to make a plank
or board: but my time or labour was little worth,
and fo it was as well employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
ferved above, in the first place; and this I did out of
the
piece
'omthtfhip.
I mad
one
"Uolay all
Min a word,
to that I m
pas into the \
Jj all things th;
hat had n
fore,
* to me to
find,
, an
an<
the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft
from the ship. But when I wrought out fome boards,
as above, I made large fhelves, of the breadth of a foot
and a half, one over another, all along one fide of my
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work on;
and, in a word, to feparate every thing at large in their
places, that I might eafily come at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang my guns,
and all things that would hang up.
So, that had my cave been to be feen, it looked like
a general magazine of all necessary things; and I had
every thing fo ready at my hand, that it was a great
pleafure to me to fee all my goods in fuch order, and
especially to find my Rock of all neceflaries fo great,
And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for indeed, atfirft, I was in too
much hurry, and not only hurry, as to labour, but in
much difcompofure of mind: and my journal would
too have been full of many dull things. For example, I
muft have faid thus : " Sept. the 3Oth.—After I had
"got to more, and had efcaped drowning, instead of
"being thankful to God for my deliverance, having
"firft vomited, with the great quantity of falt water
"which was gotten into my ftomach, and recovering
"myself a little, Iran about the more, wringing my
"my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaim-
." ing at my mifery, and crying out, I was undone,
"undone; till tired and faint, I was forced to lie down
"on the ground to repofe, but durft notfleep, for fear
"• of being devoured." 1.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board
the fhip, and got all that I could out of her, yet I
could not forbear getting up to the top of a little moun-
- VOL. I. G tain,
ADVENTURES OF
tain, and looking out to fea, in hopes of feeing a fhip;
then fancy, at a vaft diftance, I fpied a fail, pleafe my-
felf with the hopes of it; and then, after looking flea- dily, till I was almoft blind, lose it quite, and fit down
and weep like a child; and thus increafe my mifery by
my folly.
But, having gotten over thefe things in fome mea-
fure, and having fettled my houfhold-ftuff and habita-
tion, made me a table and a chair, and all as hand-
fome about me as I could, I began to keep my Journal,
of which I shall here give you the copy, (though in it
will be told all thefe particulars over again) as long
it lafted; for having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off.
THE JOURNALSEPTEMBER 30*11, 1659. I, poor miferable Ro-
binfon Crufoe, being fhipwrecked, during a dreadful
ftorm, in the offing, came on more on this difmal,
unfortunate ifland, which I called the ISLAND of
DESPAIR, all the reft of the ship's company being
drowned, and myfelf almoft dead.
All the reft of that day I fpent in afflifting myfelf at
the difmal cirqumftances I was brought to, viz. I had
neither food, houfe, cloaths, weapon, or place to fly
to, and in defpair of any relief, faw nothing but death
before me, either that I fhould be devoured by wild
beafts, murdered by favages, or ftarved to death for
want of food. At the approach of night I flept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures; but flept foundly,
though it rained all night.
Qflottr
i
Qftober i. In the morning I faw, to my great fur-
prife, the flap had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on fhore again much nearer the ifland; which,
as it was fome comfort on one hand, (for feeing her fit
upright, and not broken in pieces, I hoped, if the
wind abated, I might get on board, and get fome food
and neceflaries out of her for my relief) fo, on the
other hand, it renewed my grief at the lofs of my com-
rades, who, I imagined, if we had all ftaid on board,
might have faved the ship, or, at leaft, that they would
not have been all drowned, as they were; and that,
had the men been faved, we might perhaps have built
us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried
us to fome other part of the world. I fpent great part
of this day in perplexing myself on thefe things; but
at length feeing the fhip almoft dry, I went upon
the fand as near as I could, and then fwam on board.
This day alfo it continued raining, though with no
wind at all.
From the gift of October to the 24th. All thefe days
entirely fpent in many feveral voyages to get all I could
out of the fhip, which I brought on more, every tide
of flood, upon rafts. Much rain alfo in thefe days,
though with fome intervals of fair weather; but, it
feems, this Was the rainy feafon.
Off. 20. I overfet my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but, being in fhoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.;
Oft. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gufts of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be feen, except the wreck of her,
G 2 and
and that only at low water. I fpent this day in cover-
ing and fecuring the goods which I had faved, that the
rain might not fpoil them.
Off. 26. I walked about the more almost all day to
find out.a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned
to fecure'myfelf from any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon
a proper place, under a rock, and marked out a semi- circle for my encampment, which I refolved to
ftrengthen with a work, wall, or fortification, made
of double piles,' lined within with cables, and without
with turf.
From the 26th to the 3Oth, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
lome part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31 ft, in the morning, I went out into the
ifland with my gun, to fee for fome food, and difcover
the country; when I killed a fhe-goat, and her kid fol-
lowed me'home, which I afterwards killed alfo} be-
caufe it would not feed.
November i. I fet up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night; making it as large as I could,
with ftakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2* I fet up all my chefts and boards, and the j
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them i formed a fence round me, a little within the place I 1^
had marked out for my fortification. j lit „.,
• • "l H'a
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two , ^ ,'
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the 'i^?
afternoon I went to work, to make me a table. . .
Nov.. 4. This, morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of fleep, and •
time of diverfion: viz. every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then employed myfelf to work till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to
two I lay down to fleep, the weather being exceffive
hot; and then, in the evening, to work again. The
working part of this day and the next were wholly em-
ployed in making my table, for I was yet but a very
forry workman, though time and neceffity made me a
complete natural mechanic foon after, as I believe it
would any one elfe.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat; her fkin pretty foft, but her
flefh good for nothing: every creature that I killed I
took off the skins, and preferved them. Coming back
by the fea-fhore, I faw many forts of fea-fowl which I
did not understand, but was furprized, and almoft
frightened with two or three feals; which, while I was
gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into
the fea, and efcaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finifhed it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be fettled, fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, goth, goth, and part of the I2th (for
the nth was Sunday, according to my reckoning) I
took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much
ado brought it to a tolerable fhape, but never to pleafe
me, and even in the making I pulled it in pieces feveral
times.
Note, I foon neglected my keeping Sundays; for
omitting my mark for them on my poft, I forgot which
was which.
G 3 Nov.
ADVENTURES OF
NOV. 13. This day it rained, which refrefhed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder: as
foon as it was over, I refolved to feparate my flock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. Thefe three days I fpent in
making little fquare chefts or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds at moft of powder: and
fo putting the powder in, I ftowed it in places as fecure
and remote from one another as poffible. On one of
thcfe these three days I killed a large bird that was good
to eat, but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. -This day I began to dig behind my
tent into tue rock, to make room for my farther con-
venience.
Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow
or b-ifket; fo I defied from my work, and began to
confider how to fupply thele wants, and make me some tools-: as for a pick-axe, I made ufe of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though heavy; but the
next thing was a shovel or fpade: this was fo abfo-
lutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effec-
tually without it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in fearching the woods, I
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the
Brafils they call the iron tree, for its exceeding hard-
nefs; of this, with great labour, and almost fpoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home too with
difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The
exceffive
exceffive hardnefs of the wood, and having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine; for I
worked it effeftually, by little and little, into the form
of a fhovel or fpade, the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the broad part having no iron
shod upon it at bottom, it would not laft me fo long;
however, it ferved well enough for the ufes which I
had occafion to put it to: but never was a fhovel, I be-
lieve, made after that fashion, or fo long a making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow: a basket I could not make by any means,
having no fuch things as twigs that would bend to make
wicker-ware, at leaft none yet found out; and as to
the wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make all but the
wheel, but that I had no notion of; neither did I know
how to go about it; befides, I had no portable way
to make iron gudgeons for the fpindle or axis of
of the wheel to run in; fo I gave it over: and fo, for
carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made me a thing like a hod which the labourers carry
mortar in, when they ferve the bricklayers. This was
not fo difficult to me as the making the fhovel; and
yet this and the fhovel, and the attempt which I made
in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took me up no lefs
than four days, I mean always excepting my morning
walk with my gun, which I feldom omitted, and very
feldom failed alfo bringing home fomething fit to eat.
. Nov. 23. My other work having now stood ftill,
becaufe of my making thefe tools, when they were
finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I fpent eighteen days entire-
ly in widening and deepening my cave, that it might
hold my goods commodioufly.
64 . Note,
Note, During all this time, I worked tojnake this
room or cave fpacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehoufe or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and
a cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, except
that fometimes, in the wet feafon of the year, it rained
fo hard, that I could not keep myfelf dry, which caufed
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees, like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault
finifhed; when, on a fudden (it feems I had made it
too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the
top and one fide1; fo much, that in short it frightened
me, and not without reafon too; for if I had been un-
der it, I had never wanted a grave-digger: upon this
difafler, I had a great deal of work to do over again,
for I had the loofe earth to carry out; and, which was
of more importance, I had the cieling to prop up, fo
that I might be fure no more would come down.
Dec. n. This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two fhoars or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of board across over each poft:
this I finished the next day; and fetting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof fe-
cured; and the pofts standing in rows, ferved me for
partitions to part off my houfe.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth, I placed
fhelves, and knocked up nails on the pofts, to hang
every thing up that could be hung up; and now I be-
gan to be in fome order within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the cave,
and began to furnish my house, and fet up fome pieces
of
of boards, like a drefler, to order my victuals upon;
but boards began to be very fcarce with me: alfo I
made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no ftir-
ring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleafanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another,
fo as that I catched it, and led it home in a firing : when
I had it home, I bound and fplintered up its leg, which
was broke. <
N. B. I took fuch care of it, that it lived, and the
leg grew well, and as ftrong as ever; but by nurfing it
fo long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at
my door, and would not go away. This was the firft
time that I entertained a thought of breeding up fome
tame creatures, that I might have food when my
powder and mot was all fpent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze;
fo that there was no stirring abroad, except in the even-
ing for food: this time I fpent in putting all my things
in order within doors.
January1 . Very hot ftill; but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys,
which lay towards the center of the ifland, I found
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and
hard to come at; however I refolved to try if I could
not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and let him upon the goats; but I was
miftaken, for they all faced about upon the dog, and
he
heknew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being
ftill jealous of my being attacked by fomebody, I re-
folved to make very thick and ftrong.
N. B. This wall being defcribed before, I purpofely
omit what was faid in the Journal: it is fufficient to ob-
ferve, that I was no lefs time than from the 3d of Ja-
nuary, to the i4th of April, working, finifhing, and per-
fefting this wall, though it was no more than about 24
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in
the rock, to another place, about twelve yards from
it, the door of the cave being in the center, behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay fometimes, weeks together;
but I thought I would never be perfectly fecure till this
wall was finifhed; and it is fcarce credible what inex-
preffible labour every thing was done with; efpecially
the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outfide double
fenced, with a turf-wall raifed up clofe to it, I per-
fuaded myfelf, that if any people were to come on
fhore there, they would not perceive any thing like a
habitation; and it was very well I did fo, as may be
obferved hereafter, upon a very remarkable occafion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and
made frequent difcoveries in thefe walks of fomething
or other to my advantage; particularly, I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as houfe pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks;
rocks; and taking fome young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame, and did fo; but when they grew
older, they flew all away; which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them: however, I frequently found their nefts, and
got their young ones, which was very good meat.
And now, in the managing my houfhold affairs,
I found myfelf wanting in many things, which I
thought, at first, it was impoffible for me to make,
as indeed, as to fome of them, it was; for inftance, I
could never make a cafk to be hooped: I had a small runlet or two, as I obferved before, but I could never
arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though
I spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in
the heads, or join the Raves fo true to one another, as
to make them hold water; fo I gave, that alfo over. In
the next place, I was at a great lofs for candle, fo that
as foon as ever it was dark, which was generally by
feven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed: I remem-
bered the lump of bees-wax, with which I made candles
in my African adventure, but I had none of that now;
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a
goat, I faved the tallow, and with a little dim made of
clay, which I baked in the fun, to which I added a
wick of fome oakum, I made me a lamp, and this
gave me light, though not a clear, steady light, like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it happened,
that rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which,
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn, for the
feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as
I fuppofe, when the fhip came from Lifbon. What
little remainder of corn had been in the bag, was all
devoured with the rats, and I faw nothing in the bag
but husks and duft; and being willing to have the bag
for
for fome other ufe, (I think it was to put powder in
when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or fqme
fuch ufe) I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one
fide of my fortification under the rock.
It was a little before the great rain, juft now men-
tioned, that I threw this fluff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not fo much as remembering that I
had thrown any thing there; when, about a month
after, or thereabout, I faw fome few flalks,of fome-
thing green, shooting out of the ground, which I fan-
cied might be fome plant I had not feen; but I was
furprized and perfeftly aftonifhed, when, after a little
longer time, I faw about ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfed green barley, of the fame kind as
our European, nay, as our Englifh barley.
It is impofiible to exprefs the aflonifhment and con-
fufion of my thoughts on this occafiort: I had hitherto
a<3ed upo'n no religious foundation at all; indeed, I
had very few notions of religion in my head, nor had
entertained any fenfe of any thing that had befallen me,
otherwise than as a chance, or as we lightly fav, what
pleafes God, without fo much as enquiring into the
end of Providence in thefe things, or his order in go-
verning events in the world: but after I faw barley
grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper
for corn, and efpecially that I knew not how it came
there, it startled me strangely; and I began to suggest, that God had miraculoully caufed this grain to grow,
without any help of feed fown, and that it was fo
directed purely for my fuftenance, on that wild, miser- able place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes; and I began to blefs myfelf, that fuch
a pro-
i
a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me, becaufe I faw near
it ftill, all along by the fide of the rock, fome other
ftraggling ftalks, which proved to be ftalks of rice, and
which I knew, becaufe I had feen it grow in Africa,
when I was afhore there.
I not only thought thefe the pure produ&ions of
Providence for my fupport, but not doubting but that
there was more in the place, I went over all that part
of the ifland where I had been before, peering in
every corner, and under every rock, to fee for more of
it, but I could not find any: at lafl it occurred to my
thoughts, that I had fhook a bag of chickens-meat out
in that place, and then the wonder began to ceafe; and
I mail confess, my religious thankfulnefs to God's pro-
vidence began to abate too, upon the difcovering that
all was this nothing but what was common; though I
ought to have been as thankful for fo ftrange and un-
forefeen a providence, as if it had been miraculous:
for it was really the work of Providence, as to me, that
should order or appoint, that 10 or 12 grains of corn
fhould remain unfpoiled, (when the rats had deftroyed
all the reft), as if it had been dropt from heaven; as
alfo, that I fhould throw it out in that particular
place, where it being in the shade of a high rock, it
fprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it
any where elfe, at that time, it had been burnt up and
destroyed. I carefully faved the ears of this corn, you may be
fare, in their feafon, which was about the end of June;
and laying up every corn, I refolved to fow them all
again; hoping, in time, to have fome quantity sufficient to
to fupply me with bread; but it was not till the fourth
year, that I could allow myfelf the leaft grain of this
corn to eat, and even then but fparingly, as I shall fhew afterwards, in its order; for I loft all that I fowed
the firft feafon, by not obferving the proper time; for
I fowed juft before the dry feafon, fo that it never came
up at all, at leaft, not as it would have done; of which
in its place.
Befides this barley, there was, as above, 20 or 30
flalks of rice, which I preferved with the fame care,
and whofe ufe was of the fame kind, or to the fame
purpofe, viz. to make me bread, or rather food; for
I found ways to cook it up without baking, though I
did that alfo after fome time. But to return to my
Journal.
I worked excessive hard thefe three or four months
to get my wall done; and the I4th of April I clofed it
up; contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over
the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no fign in
the outfide of my habitation.
April,16. I finished the ladder; fo I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down in the infide: this was a compleat en-
clofure to me ; for within I had room enough, and no-
thing could come at me from without, unlefs it could
firft mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finifhed, I had
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and my-
felf killed; the cafe was thus :—As I was bufy in the
infide of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into
my cave, I was terribly frightened with a moft dread-
ful, furprifing thing indeed; for, all on a fudden, I
found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of
s my
my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head,
and two of the pofts I had let up in the cave, cracked
in a frightful manner; I was heartily feared, but
thought nothing of what really was the caufe, only
thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as fome
of it had done before; and for fear I fhould be buried
in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking
myfelf fafe there neither, I got over my wall, for fear
of the pieces of the hill which I expected might roll
down upon me. I was no fooner ftepped down upon
the firm ground, but I plainly faw it was a terrible
earthquake; for the ground I stood on, fhook three
times, at about eight minutes distance, with three fuch
shocks as would have overturned the ftrongeft build-
ing that could be fuppofed to have stood on the earth;
and a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about
half a mile from me, next the fea, fell down with fuch
a terrible noife as I never heard in all my life. I per-
ceived alfo, the very fea was put into a violent motion
by it; and I believe the shocks were ftronger under the
water than on the ifland.
I was fo much amazed with the thing itfelf, having
never felt the like, or difcourfed with any one that had,
that I was like one dead or ftupified; and the motion
of the earth made my ftomach fick, like one that was
tolled at fea; but the noife of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and roufing me from the ftu-
pified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and
I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my
tent and all my houlhold goods, and burying all at
once; and this funk my very foul within me a fecond
time.
After
After the third fhock was over, and I felt no more for fome time, I began to take courage; and yet I had
not heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear of
being buried alive, but fat ttill upon the ground, greatly
caft down, and difconfolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while, I had not the leaft ferious, religious
thought; nothing but the common Lord, have mercy
upon me! and when it was over, that went away too.
While I fat thus. I found the air overcaft, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; foon after that, the wind
rofe by little and little, fo that, in lefs than half an
hour, it blew a moft dreadful hurricane; the fea was,
all on a sudden, covered with foam and froth ; the more
was covered with a breach of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots, and a terrible ftorm it was. And
this held about three hours, and then began to abate;
and in two hours more it was quite calm, and began
to rain very hard. , All this while I fat upon the ground
very much terrified and dejected ; when, on a fudden,
it came into my thoughts, that thefe winds and rain
being the consequence of the earthquake, the earth-
quake itfelf was fpent and over, and I might venture
into my cave again. With this thought my fpirits be-
gan to revive, and the rain alfo helping to perfuade me,
I went in, and fat down in my tent; but the rain was
fo violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down
with it, and I was forced to get into my cave, though
very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it fhould fall on
my head. This violent rain forced me to a new work,
viz. to cut a hole through my, new fortification, like a
sink, to let the water go out, which would elfe have
drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave fome
time, and found ftill no more mocks of the earthquake
follow, follow, I began to be more compofed. And now to
fupportmy fpirits, which, indeed, wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a fmall fup of rum,
which however I did then, and always very fparingly,
knowing I could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, fo that I could not ftir abroad; but my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what
I had belt do, concluding, that if the ifland was fub-
left to thefe earthquakes, there would be no living for
me in a cave, but I muft confider of building me fome
little hut in an open place, which I might furround
with a wall, as I had done here, and fo make myfelf
fecure from wild beafts or men: but concluded, if I
flaid where I was, I would certainly, one time or other,
be buried alive.
With thefe thoughts, I refolved to remove my tent
from the place where it ftood, which was juft under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent:
and I fpent the two next days, being the iQth and
aoth of April, in contriving where and how to remove
my habitation. The fear of being fwallowed alive
affected me fo, that I never flept in quiet; and yet the
apprehenfion of lying abroad, without any fence, was
almoft equal to it: but Bill, when I looked about, and
faw how every thing was put in order, how pleafantly
I was concealed, and how fafe from danger, it made
me very loth to remove. In the mean time it occurred
to me, that it would require a vaft deal of time for me
to do this, and that I muft be contented to run the
venture where I was, till I had formed a camp for my-
felf, and had fecured it fo as to remove to it. So with
VoL. I. H this
this refolution I compofed myfelf for a time, and re-
folved that I would go to work with all fpeed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as be-
fore, and fet up my tent in it, when it was finished; but that I would venture to flay where I was till it was
finished, and fit to remove to. This was the 21 ft.
April 22. The next morning I began to confider of'
means to put this refolve into execution, but I was at
a great loss about my tools: I had three large axes, and
abundance of hatchets, (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians) but with much chopping and
cutting knotty, hard wood, they were all full of notches
and dull; and though I had a grind-ftone, I could not
turn it and grind my tools too. This coft'me as much
thought as a ftatefman would have bestowed upon a
grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a
ftring, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both
my hands at liberty,
Note, I had never feen any fuch thing in England,
or at leaft not to take notice how it was done, though
fince I have obferved it is very common there: befides
that, my grind-ftone was very large and heavy. This
machine coft me a full week's 'work to bring it to per-
feftion.
April 28, 29. Thefe two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
ftone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a furvey of it, and reduced
myself to one bifcuit-cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.
May
May l- In the morning, looking towards the fea-
fide, the tide being low, I faw fomething lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask,; when I came to it, I found a fmall barrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the fhip, which were
driven on fhore by the late hurricane; and looking to-
wards the wreck itfelf, I thought it feemed to lie higher
out of the water than it ufed to do, I examined the
barrel that was driven on shore, and foon found it was
a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the
powder was caked as hard as a ftone; however, I rolled
it farther on the shore for,the prefent, and went on
upon the fands, as near as I could to the wreck of the
ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the fhip, I found it ftrangely
removed; the forecastle, which lay before buried in
fand, was heaved up at Icaft fix feet; and the stern, which was broke to pieces, and parted from the reft by
the force of the fea, foon after had I left rummaging of
her, was tofTed, as it were, up, and caft on one fide, and
the fand was thrown fo high on that fide next her stern, that whereas there was a great piece of water before, fo
that I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without fwimming, I could now walk quite up
to her when then the tide was out. I was furprized
with this at firft, but foon concluded it muft be done
by the earthquake; and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than formerly, fo many things
came daily on Lahore, which the fea had loofened, and
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the
land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the defign
of removing my habitation; and I bufied myfelf
H 2 mightily,
mightily, that day efpecially, in fearching whether I
could make any way into the ship ; but I found
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that
all the infide of the flap was choaked up with fand:
however, as I had learned not to defpair of any thing,
I refolved to pull every thing to pieces that I could of
the ship, concluding that every thing I could get from
her would be of fome ufe or other to me.
May 3. I began with my faw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held fome of the upper
part or quarter-deck together; and when I had cut it
through, I cleared away the fand as well as I could
from the fide which lay higheft; but the tide coming
in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
May 4. I went a riming, but caught not one fifh
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my fport; when,
juft going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I
had made me a long line of fome rope-yarn, but I had
no hooks, yet I frequently caught fifh enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the fun, and eat
them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck; cut another beam
afunder, and brought three great fir-planks off from the
decks, which I tied together, and made fwim on more
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck; got feveral iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked
very hard, and came home very much tired, and had
thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an
intent not to work; but found the weight of the
wreck had broke itfelf down, the beams being cut; that
feveral pieces of the ship feemed to lie loofe, and the
infide
infide of the hold lay fo open, that I could fee into it,
but almoft full of water and fand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear
of the water and fand. I wrenched up two planks, and
brought them on shore alfo with the tide. I left the
iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt feveral
cafks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not
break them up. I felt alfo a roll of English lead, and
could ftir it, but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, to 14. Went every day to the wreck, and
got a great deal of pieces of timber, and boards or
plank, and two or three hundred-weight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it
lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not
make any blow to drive the hatchet;
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I Raid fo long in the woods to get pigeons for
food, that the tide prevented my going to the wreck
that day.
May 17. I faw fome pieces of the wreck blown on
more, at a great diftance, two miles off me, but re-
solved to fee what they were, and found it was a piece
of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the
wreck; and with hard labour I loofened fome things
fo much with the crow, that the firft blowing tide
feveral casks floated out, and two of the feamen's chefts;
H 3 but
but the wind blowing from the more, nothing came to
land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead which had fome Brafil pork in it, but'the falt water
. and the fand had fpoiled it. I continued this work
every day to the 151!! of June, except the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this part
of my employment, to be when the tide was up, that
I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber and plank, and iron work
enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how:
and alfo I got, at feveral times, and in feveral pieces,
near one hundred-weight of the fheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the fea-fide, I found a
large tortoife or turtle. This was the first I had leen,
which it feems was only my misfortune, not any de-
fed!: of the place, or fcarcity; for had I happened to be
on the other fide of the ifland, I might have had hun-
dreds of them every day, as I found afterwards; but
perhaps, "had paid dear enough for them.
June 17, I fpent in cooking the turtle.—I found in
her threefcore eggs; and her flefh was to me, at that
time, the moft favoury and pleafant that ever I tasted in my life; having had no flefh, but of goats and
fowls, fince I landed in this horrid place.
June 18. Rained all that day, and I ftaid within.
I thought, at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was
fomething chilly; which I knew was not ufual in that
latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. No reft all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverifh.
June 21. Very ill; frightenedalmoft to death with
the apprehenfions of my fad condition, to be fick, and
no help: prayed to God for the first time fince the
ftorm off Hull, but fcarce knew what I faid, or why;
my thoughts being all confufed.
June 22. A little better; but under dreadful appre-
henfions of ficknefs.
"June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-ache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held me
feven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint fweats
after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myfelf very weak: however,
I killed a fhc-goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled fome of it, and eat: I would fain
have flewed it, and made fome broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again fo violent, that I lay
a-bed all day, and neither eat or drank, I was ready to
perifh for thirft, but fo weak, I had not ftrength to
ftand up, or to get myfelf any water to drink. Prayed
to God again, but was-light-headed; and when I
was not, I was fo ignorant, that I knew not what to
fay, only I lay and cried, " Lord look upon me! Lord
pity me! Lord have mercy upon me!" I fuppofe I
did nothing elfe for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell afleep, and did not awake till far in
the night: when I awoke, I found myfelf much re-
frefhed, but weak, and exceeding thirfty; however, as
I had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced
to lie till morning, and went to fleep again. In this
second fleep, I had this terrible dream: I thought that I
H 4 was
104
ADVENTURES OF
was fitting on the ground, on the outfide of my wall,
where I fat when the ftorm blew after the earthquake,
and that I faw a man defcend from a great black cloud,
in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground;
he was all over as bright as a flame, fo that I could but
juft bear to look towards him; his countenance was
moft inexprcffibly dreadful, impofllble for words to de-
fcribe ; when he stepped upon the ground with his feet,
I thought the earth trembled, juft as it had done be-
fore in the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my ap-
prehenfion, as if it had been filled with flames of fire:
he was no fooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward towards me, with a long fpear or weapon in
his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rifing
ground, at fome diftance, he fpoke to me, or I heard
a voice fo terrible, that it is impossible to exprefs • the
terror of it; all that I can fay I understood, was this:
"Seeing all thefe things have not brought thee to re-
"pentance, now then thou shalt die;" at which words,
I thought he lifted up the fpear that was in his hand, to
kill me.
No one that mall ever read this account, will expect that I would be able to defcribe the horrors of my foul
at this terrible vifion; I mean, that even while'it was a
dream, I even dreamed of thofe horrors; nor is it any
more possible to defcribe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was but a
dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father, was then
worn out by an uninterrupted feries, for eight years,
of fea-faring wickednefs, and a conftant converfation
with nothing but fuch as were, like myfelf, wicked and
profane
profane to the laft degree: I do not remember that I
had, in all that time, one thought that fo much as
tended either to looking upward, towards God, or in-
ward, towards a reflection upon my own ways: but a
certain stupidity of foul, without defire of good, or
confcioufnefs of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me;
and I was all that the moft hardened, unthinking, wicked
creature among our common failors can be fuppofed
to be; not having the leaft fenfe, either of the fear of
God, in danger, or of thankfulnefs to God, in deli-
verances.
In the relating what is already paft of my story, this
will be the more eafily believed, when I mail add, that
through all the variety of miferies that had to this day
befallen me, I never had fo much as one thought of it
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punish- ment for my fin; my rebellious behaviour againft my
father, or my prefent fins, which were great, or fo
much as a punifhment for the general courfe of my
wicked life. When I was on the defperate expedition
on the defart shores of Africa, I never had fo much as
one thought of what would become of me, or one with
to God to direct me whither I fhould go, or to keep
me from the danger which apparently furrounded me,
as well from voracious creatures as cruel favages ; but I
was merely thoughtlefs of a God, or a Providence;
acted like a mere brute, from the principles of nature,
and by the dictates of common fenfe only, and indeed
hardly that. When I was delivered and taken up at
fea by the Portuguefe Captain, well ufed, and dealt
justly and honourably with, as well as charitably, I had
not the leaft thankfulnefs on my thoughts. When
again I was fhipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of
drowning
io6
ADVENTURES OF
drowning on this ifland, I was as far from remorfe, or
looking on it as a judgment; I only faid to myfelf
often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be
always miferable.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myfelf fpared, I was
furprifed with a kind of ecftafy, and fome tranfports of
foul, which, had the grace of God affifted, might have
come up to true thankfulnefs; but it ended where it
began, in a mere common flight of joy; or, as I may
fay, being glad I was alive, without the leaft reflection upon the diftinguifhing goodnefs of the hand which had
preferved me, and had fingled me out to be preferved,
when all the reft were destroyed, or an enquiry why
Providence had been thus merciful to me; even just the fame common fort of joy which feamen generally
have, after they are got fafe ashore from a fhipwreck,
which they drown all in the next bowl of punch, and
forget almoft as food as it is over; and all the reft of
my life was like it. Even when I was, afterwards, on
due confideration, made fenfible of my condition, how
I was caft on this dreadful place, out of the reach of
human kind, out of all hope of relief, or profpeft of
redemption,' as foon as I faw but a profpeft of living,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all
the fenfe of my affliction wore off, and I began to be
very eafy, applied myfelf to the works proper for my
prefervation and fupply, and was far enough from being
afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven,
or as the hand of God againft me.. Thefe were thoughts
which very feldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
Journal, had, at first, -fome little influence upon me,
^**l
w.
and began to affeft me with ferioufnefs, as long as I
thought it had fomething miraculous in it; but as foon
as ever that part of the thought was removed, all the
impression which was raifed from it, wore offalfo, as
I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more
immediately directing to the invifible Power which alone
directs fuch things, yet no fooner was the fright over,
but the impression it had made went off alfo. I had
no more fenfe of God, or his judgments, much lefs of
the prefent affliction of my circumftances being from
his hand, than if I had been in the moft profperous
condition of life. But now, when I began to be fick,
and a leifure view of the miferies of death came to place
itfelf before me; when my fpirits began to fink under
the burden of a strong diftemper, and nature was ex-
haufted with the violence of the fever, confcience, that
had flept fo long, began to awake, and I began to re-
proach myself with my paft life, in which I had fo evi-
dently, by uncommon wickednefs, provoked the juf-
tice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in fo vindictive a manner. Thefe re-
fieftions opprefled me for the fecond or third day of
my distemper, and in the violence, as well of the fever,
as of the dreadful reproaches of my confcience, extorted
fome words from me like praying to God, though I
cannot fay it was either a prayer attended with de-
sires or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere
fright and distress : my thoughts were confufed, the
convictions great upon my mind; and the horror of
dying in fuch a miferable condition, raifed vapours
in my head with the mere apprehenfions; and, in these hurries of my foul, I knew not what my tongue might
exprefs:
exprefs; but it was rather exclamation, fuch as, " Lord,
"what a miferable creature am I! If I would be fick,
"I shall certainly die for want of help, and what will
"become of me?" Then the tears burft out of my
eyes, and I could fay no more for a good while. In
this interval, the good advice of my father came to my
mind, and prefently his prediction, which I mentioned
at the beginning of this story, viz. That if I did take
this foolifh ftep, God would not blefs me, and I would
have leifure, hereafter, to reflect upon having negleft-
ed his counfel, when there might be none to affift in
my recovery. "Now," faid I aloud, " my dear fa-
"ther's words are come to pafs; God's juftice has
"overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
"I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mer-
"cifully put me in a pofture or ftation of life wherein
"I might have been happy and eafy, but I would nei-
"ther fee it myfelf, or learn to know the bleffing of it
** from my parents. I left them to mourn over my
"folly, and now I am left to mourn under the confe-
"quences of it. I refufed their help and affiftance who
•f would have lifted me into the world, and would have
*' made every thing eafy to me, and now I have difficul-
"ties to ftruggle with, too great for even nature itfelf to
"fupport, and no affiftance, no comfort, no advice."
Then I cried out, " Lord, be my help, for I am in
"great diftrefs." This was the firft prayer, if I may
call it fo, that I had made for many years. But I re-
turn to my Journal.
June 28. Having been fomewhat refrefhed with the
fleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream was very
great,
great, yet I confidered that the fit of the ague would
return again the next day, and now was my time to
get fomething to refrefh and fupport myfelf when I
fhould be ill; and the firft thing I did, I filled a large
fquare cafe bottle with water, and fet it upon my table,
in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill, or aguifh
difpofition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together; then I got
me a piece of the goat's flefh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little. I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very fad and heavy hearted
in the fenfe of my miferable condition, dreading the
return of my diftemper the next day. At night, I
made my fupper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I
roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the mell;
and this was the firft bit of meat I had ever asked God's
bleffing to, that, as I could remember, in my whole
life. After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
felf fo weak, that I could hardly carry the gun, (for I
never went out without that) fo I went but a little way,
and fat down upon the ground, looking out upon the
fea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I fat here, fome fuch thoughts as thefe
occurred to me: What is this earth and fea, of which
I have feen fo much? Whence is it produced? And
what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame,
human and brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are
all made by fome fecret power, who formed the earth/
and fea, the air and sky. And who is that? Then it
followed moft naturally, it is GOD that has made it all.
Well, but then it came on ftrangely, if God has made
all thefe things, he guides and governs them all, and
all things that concern them; for the power that could
make
make all things, muft certainly have power to guide
and direct them. If fo, nothing can happen in the
great circuit of his works, either without his know-
ledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I an- here, and am in this dreadful condi-
tion: and if nothing happens without his appointment,
he has appointed all this to befal me. Nothing occur-
red to my thought to contradict any of thefe conclu-
fions; and therefore it refted upon me with the greatest force, that it muft needs be, that God had appointed
all this to befal me; that I was brought to this mifer-
able circumftance by his direction, he having the fole
power, not of me only, but of every thing that happen-
ed in the world. Immediately it followed, " Why has
." God done this to me? What have I done to be thus
"used ?" My confcience prefently checked me in that
enquiry, as if I had blafphemed; and methought it
fpoke to me like a voice, " WRETCH! doft thou aflc
"what thou haft done? Look back upon a dreadful,
*' mifpent life, and ask thyfelf, what haft thou not
"done? Afk, why is it that thou wert not long ago
"deftroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yar-
"mouth Roads? Killed in the fight when the flap was
"taken by the Sallee man of war? Devoured by the
"wild beafts on the coast of Africa? Or drowned
"HERE, when all the crew perished but thyfelf?
"Doft THoU ask, What have I done?" I was ftruck
dumb with thefe reflections, as one astonished, and
had not a word to fay; no, not to anfwer to myfelf:
but rifing up penfive and fad, walked back to my re-
treat, and went over my wall, as if I had been going to
bed; but my thoughts were fadly disturbed, and I. had
• no
no inclination to fleep; fo I fat down in my chair, and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as
the apprehenfion of the return of my distemper terri-
fied me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the
Brazilians take no phyfic but their tobacco, for almoft:
all diftempers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in
one of the chefts, which was quite cured, and fome
alfo that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this
cheft I found a cure both for foul and body: I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had faved lay there too,
I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which to this time I had not found leifure, or fo
much as inclination to look into ; I fay, I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the
table. What ufe to make of the tobacco I knew not,
as to my distemper, or whether it was good for it or
not; but I tried feveral experiments with it, as if I was refolved it should hit one way or other; I first took
a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which
indeed, at firft, almoft ftupified my brain, the tobacco
being green and ftrong, and that I had not been much
ufed to it; then I took fome, and steeped it an hour or
two in fome rum, and refolved to take a dofe of it
when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt fome upon a pan
of coals, and held my nofe clofe over the fmoke of it
as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat, as almost for fuffocation. In the interval of this operation, I
took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head was
too much difturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at
leaft at that time; only, having opened the bookcafual-
Jy, the first words that occurred to me were thefe, " Call
"on
"on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee,
"and thou shalt glorify me." Thefe words were very
apt to my cafe, and made fome impreffion upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not fo
much as they did afterwards; for, as for being deliver-
ed, the word had no found, as I may fay, to me,; the
thing was fo remote, fo impoffible, in my apprehenfion
of things, that I began to fay as the children of Ifrael
did, when they were promifed flefh to eat, " Can God
"fpread a table in the wildernefs?" So I began to fay,
"Can God himfelf deliver me from this place?" And
as it was not for many years that any hopes appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but, how-
ever, the words made a great impression upon me, and
I mufed upon them very often. It grew now late, and
. the tobacco had, as I faid, dozed my head fo much,
that I inclined to fleep; fo I left my lamp burning in
the cave, left I would want any thing in the night, and
went to bed; but before I laid down, I did what I never
had done in all my life, I kneeled down, and prayed
to God to fulfil the promife to me, " that if I called
"upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver
"me;" after my broken and imperfect prayer was
over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the to-
bacco; which was fo ftrong and rank of the tobacco,
that indeed I could fcarce get it down: immediately
upon this I went to bed; I found presently it flew up
into my head violently, but I fell into a found fleep, and
waked no more till, by the fun, it muft neceffarily be
near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay,
to this hour, I am partly of opinion, that I flept all
the next day and night, and till almofl three that day
after; for otherwife, I know not how I should lose a
5 day
CRUSOE. Ii3
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it
appeared fome years after I had done; for if I had loft
it by croffing and re-crofting the~Line, I would have
loft more than one day; but certainly I loft a day in
my account, and never knew which way. Be that,
however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found
myfelf exceedingly refrefhed, and my fpirits lively and
chearful: when I got up, I was ftronger than I was the
day before, and my ftomach better, for I was hungry;
and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but con-
tinued much altered for the better: — This was
the agth.
The 3Oth was my well day, of courfe, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a fea fowl or two, fomething like a brand
goofe, and brought them home, but was not very for-
ward to eat them; fo I eat fome more of the turtle's
eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the
medicine, which I had fuppofed did me good the day
before, viz. the tobacco fteeped in rum, only I did not
take fo much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf,
or hold my head over the fmoke; however I was not
fo well the next day, which was the lift of July, as I
hoped I should have been; for I had a little fpice of the
cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dozed myfelf with it as at firft, and doubled the
quantity which I drank.
July 3. I mifled the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full ftrength for fome weeks after:
while I was thus gathering ftrength, my'thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this fcripture, " I will deliver thee;"
and the impoffibility of my deliverance lay much upon
VOL. I. I my
my mind in bar of my ever expecting it; but as I was
difcouraging myfelf with fuch thoughts, it occurred to
my mind, that I pored fo much upon my deliverance
from the main affliction, that I difregarded the deliver-
ance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myfelf fuch queftions as thefe, viz. " Have I not
"been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness, *' from the most distressed condition that could be, and
"that was fo frightful to me; and what notice had I
"taken of it? Had I done my part? God had delivered
"me, but I had not glorified him; that is to fay, I
** had not owned and been thankful for that as a de-
"liverance, and how could I expect a greater deliver-
** ance?" This touched my heart very much, and im-
mediately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud
for my recovery from my ficknefs.
"July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, and begin-
ning at the New Teftament, I began ferioufly to read
it, and impofed upon myfelf to read a while every
morning and every night, not tying myfelf to the num-
ber of chapters, but as long as my thoughts fhould en-
gage me. It was not long after I fet ferioufly to this
work, but I found my heart more deeply and fincerely
affected with the wickednefs of my pail life. The im-
preffion of my dream revived, and the words, " all
"thefe things have not brought thee to repentance,"
ran ferioufly in my thoughts: I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened,
providentially, the very day, that reading the fcrip-
ture, I came to thefe words, " He is exalted a prince
"and a faviour, to give repentance, and to give re-
"million." I threw down the book, and with my
heart, as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a
kind
kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jefus, thou
"fon of David; Jefus, thou exalted prince and fa-
"viour, give me repentance!" This was the firft
time I could fay, in the true fenfe of the words, that I
prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a fence of
my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the word of God;
and from this time, I may fay, I began to have hope
that God would hear me.
Now I began to conftrue the words mentioned
above, " Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in a
different fenfe from what I had ever done before; for
then I had no notion of any thing being called deliver-
ance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was
in; for though I was indeed at large in) the place, yet
the ifland was certainly a prifon to me, and that in the
worft fenfe in the world: but now I learned to take it
in another fenfe; now I looked back upon my pail life
with fuch horror, and my fins appeared fo dreadful,
that my foul fought nothing of God but deliverance
from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort:
as for my folitary life, it was nothing; I did not fo
much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it
was all of no confederation incomparifon to this: And
I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it,
that whenever they come to a true fenfe of things, they
will find deliverance from fin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction. But leaving this part,
I return to my Journal.
My condition began now to be, though not lefs
miferable, as to my way of living, yet much eafier to
my mind; and my thoughts being direfted, by a con-
ftant reading the Scripture, and praying to God, to
I 2 things
n6 'ADVENTURES OF things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort
within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; alfo, as
my health and ftrength returned, I beftirred myself to
furnifh myfelf with every thing that I wanted, and
make my way of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the I4th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his ftrength after a fit of ficknefs: for it is hardly to
be imagined how low I was, and to what weaknefs I
was reduced. The application which I made ufe of
was perfeftly new, and perhaps what had never cured
an ague before, neither can I recommend it to any one
to practice, by this experiment; and though it did carry
off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me;
for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for fome time. I learned from it alfo this in particular,
, that being abroad in the rainy feafon was the moft per-
nicious thing to my health that could be, efpecially in
thofe rains which came attended with storms and hur-
licanes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
feafon was moft always accompanied with fuch ftorms,
fo I found that this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October. I
had now been in this unhappy ifland above ten months;
all portability of deliverance from this condition, feemed
to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed, that
no human fhape had ever fet foot upon that place.
Having now fecured my habitation, as I thought, fully
to my mind, I had a great defire to make a more per-
feft difcovery of the ifland, and to fee what other pro-
ductions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It
It was the wrath of July that I began to take a more
particular furvey of the ifland itfelf: I went up the
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on.
More ; I found, after I came about two miles up, that
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no
more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good; but this being the dry feafon, there was
hardly any water in fome parts of it, at leaft not any
beam. On the banks of this brook I found many
pleafant favannahs or meadows, plain, fmooth, and
covered with graft; and on the rifing parts of them,
next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it
might be fuppofed, never overflowed, I found a great
deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very
ftrong ftalk; and there were divers other pants which
I had no knowledge of, or underftanding about, and
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I
could not find out. I fearched for the caflava root,
which the Indians, in all that climate, make their
bread of, but I could find none. I faw large plants of
aloes, but did not understand them. I faw feveral fugar-
canes, but wild, and for want of cultivation, imper-
feft. I contented myfelf with thefe difcoveries, for
this time, and came back musing with myself, what
courfe I might take to know the virtue and goodnefs of
any of the fruits or plants which I would difcover,
but could bring it to no conclufion; for, in short, I
had made fo little obfervation while I was in the Brafils,
that I knew little of the plants in the field, at leaft very
little that might ferve me to any purpofe now,in my
diftrefs.
The next day, the i6th, I went up the fame way
again; and after going fomething farther than I had
I 3 gone
gone the day before, I found the brook and the favan-
nahs began to ceafe, and the country became more
woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the ground
in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
vines indeed had fpread over the trees, and the cluf-
ters of grapes were juft now in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a furprifing discovery, and I
was exceedingly glad of them; but I was warned by
my experience to eat fparingly of them, remembering
that when I was afhore in Barbary, the eating of grapes
killed feveral of our Englifhmen, who were flaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers; but I found
an excellent ufe for thefe grapes, and that was to cure
or dry them in the fun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raifins are kept, which I thought would be, as in-
deed they were, as wholesome as agreeable to eat, when
no grapes might be to be had. 1 fpentall that evening
there, and went not back to my habitation, which, by
the way, was the first night, as I might fay, I had lain
from home. In the night I took my first contrivance,
and got up into a tree, where I flept well; and the next
morning proceeding upon my discovery, travelling near
four miles, as I might judge, by the length of the val-
ley, keeping ftill due north, with a ridge of hills on
the south and north sides of me. At the end of this
march I came to an opening, where the country feemed
to defcend to the weft, and a little fpring of fresh wa-
ter, which iffued out of the fide of the hill by me, ran
the other way, that is due east ; and the country ap-
peared fo fresh, fo green, fo flourifhing, every thing
being in a constant verdure, or flourifh of fpring, that
it looked like a planted garden. I defcended a little on
the fide of that delicious vale, furveying it with a fecret
5 kind
kind of pleasure (though mixed with my other
ing thoughts) to think that this was all my own, that I
was king and lord of all this country indefeafibly, and
had a right of pofleffion; and if I could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I faw here abundance of cocoa
trees, orange and lemon, and citron trees, but all wild,
and very few bearing any fruit, at leaft not then. How-
ever, the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleafant to eat, but very wholefome; and I mixed their
juice afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
fome, and very cool and refreshing, I found now I
had bufinefs enough to gather and carry home, and I
refolved to lay up a ftore, as well of grapes as limes
and lemons, to furnifh myfelf for the wet feafon,
which I knew was approaching. In order to this, I
gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, and a
leffer heap in another place, and a great parcel of
limes and melons in another place; and taking a few
of each with me, I travelled homeward, and refolved
to come again, and bring a bag or fack, or what I could
make, to carry the reft home. Accordingly, having
fpent three days in this journey, I came home; (fo I
muft now call my tent and my cave) but before I got
thither, the grapes were fpoiled; the richnefs of the
fruits, and the weight of the juice, having broken
them, and bruifed them, they were good for little
or nothing: as to the limes, they were good, but I
could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 191!), I went back, having
made me two fmall bags to bring home my harvest ; but
I was furprized, when coming to my heap of grapes,
which were fo rich and fine when I gathered them, I
found them all fpread about, trod to pieces, and dragged
14 about,
about, fome here, fome there, and abundance eaten and
devoured: Bythis I concluded there were fome wild
creatures thereabouts which had done this, but what
they were I knew not. However, as I found that
there was no laying them up on heaps, and no carry-
ing them away in a fack; but that one way they would
be deftroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight, I took another courfe; for I
gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the fun; and as for the limes and lemons,
J carried as many back as I could well fland under.
When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleafure the fruitfulnefs of that valley,
and the pleafantnefs of the fituation, the fecurity from
ftorms on that fide, the water, and the wood, and con-
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode,
which was by far the worfl part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to confider of removing my habita-
tion, and to look out for a place equally fafe as where
I now was fituate, if possible, in that pleafant, fruitful
part of the ifland.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for fome time, the pleafantnefs of
the place tempting me; but when I came to a nearer
view of it, and to confider that I was now by the fea-
fide, where it was at leaft poffible that fomething might happen to my advantage, and by the fame ill fate that
brought me hither, might bring fome other unhappy
wretches to the fame place; and though it was, fcarce
probable that any fuch thing should ever happen, yet
to enclofe myfelf among the hills and woods in the
center of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and
to
to render fuch an affair not only improbable but im-
possible ; and that therefore I ought not by any means
to remove. However I was fo enamoured of this place,
that I fpent much of my time there for the whole re-
maining part of the month of July; and though, upon
fecond thoughts, I refolved, as above, not to remove,
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and furrounded
it at a distance with a ftrong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well flaked and filled
between with brushwood ; and here I lay very fecure,
fometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before; fo that I fancied now
I had my country houfe and my fea-coaft houfe: and
this work took me up to the beginning of August. I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made me
Rick clofe to my firft habitation; for though I had
made a tent like the other, with a piece of a fail, and
fpread it very well, yet I had not the melter of a hill to
keep me from ftorms, nor a cave behind me to retreat
into, when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I faid, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myfelf. The
3d of Auguft, I found the grapes I had hung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raifins
of the fun ; fo I began to take them down from the
trees, and it was very happy that I did fo; for the
rains which followed would have fpoiled them, and I
had loft the beft part of my winter food; for I had
above two hundred large bunches of them. No fooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain; and from
hence, which was the i4th of .Auguft, it rained, more
or
or lefs, every day, till the middle of October; and
sometimes fo violently, that I could not ftir out of my
cave for feveral days.
In this feafon I was much furprized with the increafe
of my family: I had been concerned for the lofs of one
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought,
had been dead, and I heard no more tale or tidings of
her, till, to my aftonifhment, me came home about
the end of Auguft, with three kittens: this was the
more ftrange to me, becaufe, though I had killed a wild
cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was
a quite different kind from our European cats; yet the
young cats were the fame kind of houfe breed like the
pld one; and both of my cats being females, I thought
it very ftrange: but from thefe three cats, I afterwards
came to be fo pestered with cats, that I was forced to
kill them like vermin or wild beafts, and to drive them
from my houfe as much as poffible.
From the i4th of Auguft to the 26th, incessant rain,
fo that I could not ftir, and was now very careful not to
be much wet. In this confinement I began to be
straitened for food, but venturing out twice, I one day
killed a goat, and the laft day, which was the twenty-
sixth, found a very large tortoife, which was a treat to
me, and my food was regulated thus: I eat a bunch of
raifins for my breakfaft, a piece of the goat's flefh, or
of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled; (for, to my
great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or flew any
thing) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my
fupper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one fide, till I
came
I
came to the out-fide of the hill, and made a door or
way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and fo
I came in and out this way: but I was not perfectly eafy at lying fo open; for as I had managed myfelf be-
fore, I was in a perfect enclofure, whereas now, I
thought I lay expofed; and yet I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the' biggest creature that I had yet feen upon the ifland being a
goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy an-
niverfary of my landing. I call up the notches on my
poft, and found I had been on (hore three hundred and
fixty-five days. I kept this day as a folemn faft, fet-
ting it apart for religious exercife, proftrating myfelf on
the ground with the moft ferious humiliation, confef-
fing my fins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgments upon me, praying to him to have mercy on
me through Jefus Chrift; and having not tafted the
leaft refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going
down of the fun, I then ate a bifcuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.
I had all this time obferved no fabbath-day; for, as at
first I had no fenfe of religion upon my mind, I had, after
fome time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making
a longer notch than ordinary for the fabbath-day, and
fo did not really know what any of the days were; but
now having caft up the days, as above, I found I had
been there a year; fo I divided it into weeks, and fet
apart every feventh day for a fabbath; though I found,
at the end of my account I had loft a day or two in my
reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to
fail me, I contented myfelf to ufe it more fparingly,
.and to write down only the moft remarkable events of
my life, without continuing a daily memorandum of
other things.
The rainy feafon and the dry feafon began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them fo
as to provide for them accordingly; but I bought all
my experience before I had it, and this I am going to
relate was one of the moft difcouraging experiments
that I made at all: I have mentioned that I had faved
the few ears of barley and rice, which I had fo fur-
prizingly found fprung up, as I thought, of themselves, and I believe there were about thirty flalics of rice, and
about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper
time to fow it after the rains, the fun being in its
fouthern pofition, going from me.
Accordingly,' I dug a piece of ground, as well as I
could, with my wooden fpade, and dividing it into
two parts, I fowed my grain; but as I was fowing,
it cafually occurred to my thoughts, that I would
not fow it all at firft, becaufe I did not know when was
the proper time for it; fo I fowed about two-thirds of
the feed, leaving about a handful of each. And it was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did fo, for not
one grain of that I fowed this time came to any thing:
for the dry months following, the earth having had no
rain after the feed was fown, it had no moisture to
affift its growth, and never came up at all, till the wet
feafon had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been but newly fown. Finding my firft feed did not
grow, which I eafily imagined was by the drought, I
fought for a moifter piece of ground to make another
trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new
bower, and fowed the reft of my feed in February, a
little before the vernal equinox; and this having the
rainy
rainy months of March and April'to water it, fprung
up very pleafantly, and yielded a very good crop; but
having part of the feed left only, and not daring to fow
all that I had, I had but a fmall quantity at laft, my
whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each
kind. But by this experiment I was made mafter of
my bufinefs, and knew exactly when the proper feafon
was to fow; and that I might expect two feed times,
and two harvefts every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little disco- very, which was of ufe to me afterwards: as foon as
the rains were over, and the weather began to fettle,
which was about the month of November, I made a
vifit up the country to my bower, where, though I had
not been fome months, yet I found all things just as I
left them. The circle or double hedge that I had
made, was not only firm and entire; but the flakes -which I had cut out of fome trees that grew thereabouts,
were all fhot out and grown with long branches, as
much as a willow-tree ufually fhoots the firft year after
lopping its heads; but I could not tell what tree to call
it that thefe flakes were cut from. I was furprized,
and yet very well pleafed, to fee the young trees grow;
and I pruned them, and led them to grow as much,
alike as I could; and it is fcarce credible how beautiful
a figure they grew into in three years; fo that though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in,
diameter, yet the trees, for fuch might I now call them,
foon covered it, and it was a compleat fhade, fufficient
to lodge under all the dry feafon. This made me re-
folve to cut fome more flakes, and make me a hedge
like this, in a femicircle round my wall, I mean that
of my first dwelling, which I did ; and placing the trees
or
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards distance from my first fence, they grew prefently, and were at
firft a fine cover to my habitation, and afterward ferved
for a defence alfo; as I shall obferve in its order.
I found now that the feafons of the year might gene-
rally be divided, not into fummer and winter, as in
Europe, but into the rainy feafons and the dry feafons,
which were generally thus:
From the middle of February to the middle of April,
rainy; the fun being then on, or near the equinox.
From the middle of April till the middle of August, dry; the fun being then north of the Line. From the
middle of Auguft till the middle of October, rainy;
the fun being then come back to the Line. From the
middle of October till the middle of February, dry; the
fun being then to the south of the Line.
The rainy feafons held fometimes longer and some- times fhorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this
was the general obfervation I made. After I had found
by experience, the ill confequence of being abroad in
the rain, I took care to furnifh myfelf with provifions
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and
I fat within-doors as much as possible during the wet
months. This time I found much employment, (and
very suitable alfo to the time) for I found great occa-
fion for many things which I had no way to furnifh
myfelf with but by hard labour and constant applica-
tion; particularly I tried many ways to make myfelf a
basket ; but all the twigs I could get for the purpofe
proved fo brittle, that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I
was a boy, I ufed to take great delight in standing at a
basket- maker's in the town where my father lived, to
fee
fee them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
ufually are, very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner how they worked thofe things, and some- times lending a hand, I had by this means full know-
ledge of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing but
the materials; when it came into my mind, that the
twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew, might poffibly be as tough as the fallows, wil-
lows and ofiers in England, and I refolved to try. Ac-
cordingly, the next day, I went to my country-houfe,
as I called it, and cutting fome of the smaller twigs, I
found them to my purpofe as much as I could defire;
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet
to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there
was great plenty of them: thefe I fet up to dry within
my circle or hedge, and when they were fit for ufe, I
carried them to my cave; and here, during the next
feafon,.! employed myself in making, as well as I could,
feveral baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay-
tip any thing, as I had occafion ; and though I did not
finish them very handfomely, yet I made them fuffici-
ently ferviceable for my purpofe; and thus, afterwards,
I took care never to be without them; and as my
wicker-ware decayed, I made more, efpecially jl made
ftrong, deep bafkets, to place my corn in, inftead of
facks, when I would come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I beftirred myfelf to fee, if pof-
fible, how to fupply two wants; I had no vessel to hold
any thing that was liquid except two runlets, which
were almoft full of rum, and fome glafs bottles, fome
of the common fire, and others, which were cafe-bot-
tles, square, for the holding of waters, fpirits, &c. I
had
had not fo much as a pot to boil any thing, except a
great kettle, which I faved out of the ship, and which
was too big for fuch ufe as I defired it, viz. to make
broth, and flew a bit of meat by itfelf. The fecond
thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe; but
it was impoffible for me to make one; however, I found
a contrivance for that too at laft. I employed myfelf
in planting my fecond rows of flakes or piles, and in
this wicker working all the fummer or dry feafon ; when
another bufinefs took me up more time than it could be
imagined I could fpare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to fee
the whole ifland, and that I had travelled up the brook,
and fo on to where I had built my bower, and where
I had an opening quite to the fea on the other fide of
the ifland; I now refolved to travel quite crofs to the
fea-fhore on that fide; fo taking my gun, a hatchet,
and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than ufual, with two bifcuit-cakes, and a great bunch
of raifins in my pouch, for my flore, I began my jour-
ney. When I had paired the vale where my bower
flood, as above, I came within view of the fea, to the
weir, and it being a very clear day, I fairly defcried
land, whether an ifland or continent, I could not tell;
but it lay very high, extending from the weft, to the
W. S. W. at a very great diftance; by my guefs, it
could not be lefs than 15 or 20 leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwife than that I knew it must be part of America,
and as I concluded, by all my obfervations, muft be
near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all in-
habited by favages, where, if I fhould have landed, I
had been in a worse condition than I was now ; and
therefor*
therefore I acquiefced in the difpofitions of Providence,
which I began now 'to own, and to believe, ordered
everything for the belt; I fay, I quieted my mind with
this, and left afflicting myfelf with fruitless wishes of
being there.
Befides, after fome paufe upon this affair, I con-
lidered, that if this land was the Spanifh coast, I should certainly, one time or other, fee fome veflel pafs or
repafs one way or other; but if not, then it was the
favage coaft between the Spanish country and the Bra-
files, which are indeed the worft of favages; for they
are cannibals or men-eaters, and fail not to murder
and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands.
With thefe confiderations, walking very leisurely forward, I found the fide of the ifland where I now was,
much pleafanter than mine, the open or favannah fields
fweet, adorned with flowers and grafs, and full of very
fine woods. I faw abundance of parrots, and fain I
would have caught one, if poffible, to have kept it to
be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after
fome pains taking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked
it down with a ftick, and having recovered it, I brought
it home; but it was fome years before I could make
him fpeak: however, at laft, I taught him to call me
by my name very familiarly. But the accident that
followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in r
a
its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to
be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with; nor could I fatisfy my-
felf to eat them, though I killed feveral. But I had no
VOL, I. K need
need to be venturous; for I had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too, efpecially thefe three
forts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoife; which,
added to my grapes, Leaden-hall market could not have
furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the
company; and though my cafe was deplorable enough,
yet I had great caule for thankfulnefs, and that I was
not driven to any extremities for food, but had rather
plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles out-
right in a day, or thereabout; but I took fo many turns •
and returns, to fee what discoveries I could make, that
I came weary enough to the place where I refolved to
fit down for all night; and then I either repofed my-
felf in a tree, or furrounded myself with a row offtakes
fet upright in the ground, either from one tree to ano-
ther, or fo as no wild creature could come at me, with, out waking me.'
As foon as I came to the seashore, I was furprize4
to fee that I had taken up my lot on the worst fide of
the ifland; for here indeed the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other fide, I had
found but three in a year and a half. Here was alfo.an
infinite number of fowls, of many kinds, fome of which
I had feen, and fome of which I had not feen before,
and many of them very good meat: but fuch as I knew
not the names of, except thofe called Penguins.
I could have met as many as I pleafed, but was very
fparing of my powder and shot ; and therefore had
more mind to kill a fhe-goat, if I could, which I could'
better feed on;-and though there were many goats
here, more than on my fide the ifland, yet it was with
much more difficulty that I could come near them, the
country
country being flat and even, and they faw me much
fooner than when I was on the hill.
I confefs this fide of the country was much pleafanter
than mine, but yet I had not the leaft inclination to
remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I feemed all the while I was here,
to be as it were upon a journey, and from home: how-
ever, I travelled along the shore of the fea, towards the
eaft, I fuppofe about twelve miles, and then fetting up
a great pole upon the more, for a mark, I concluded I
'would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other fide of the ifland, eaft from
my dwelling, and fo round till I came to my poft again:
of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could eafily keep all the ifland fo much in
my view, that I could not mifs finding my first dwell-
ing by viewing the country; but I found myfelf mif-
taken; for being come about two or three miles, I
found myfelf defcended into a very large valley; but fo
furrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
wood, that I could not fee which was my way by any
direction but that of the fun, nor even then, unlefs I
knew very well the pofition of the fun at that time of
the day. And it happened to my farther misfortune,
that the weather proved hazy for three or four days,
while I was in this valley ; and not being able to fee
the fun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at
left was obliged to find out the fea-fide, look for my
poft, and come back the fame way I went; and then
by eafy journies I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and
other things very heavy.
Kz In
In this journey my dog furprized a young kid, and
feized upon it, and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and faved it alive from the dog: I had a great
mind to bring it home, if I could; for I had often
been mufing, whether it might not be poffible to get a
kid or two, and fo raife a breed of tame goats, which
might fupply me when my powder and fhot would be
all fpent. I made a collar for this little creature, and
with a firing which I had made of fome rope-yarn,
which I always carried about me, I led him along,
though with fome difficulty, till I came to my bower,
and there I enclofed him, and left him; for I was very
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been ab-
fent above a month.
I cannot exprefs what a fatisfaftion it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock bed. This little wandering journey, without a
a fettled place of abode, had been fo unpleafant to me,
that my own houfe, as I called it to myfelf, was a
perfect fettlement to me, compared to that; and it
rendered every thing about me fo comfortable, that
I refolved I would never go a great way from it
again, while it should be my lot to flay on the
ifland.
I repofed myfelf here a week, to reft and regale my-
felf after my long journey; during which, moft of the
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my Poll, who began now to be a mere dome-
ftic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then
I began to think of the poor kid, which I had penned
in within my little circle, and refolved to go and fetch
?t home, or give it fome food: accordingly I went, and
found it where I left it, for indeed it could not get out,
but
but was almost starved for want of food. I went and
cut boughs of trees, and branches of fuch shrubs as I
could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied
it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was fo tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continu-
ally fed it, the creature became fo loving, fo gentle,
and fo fond, that it became from that time one of
my domeftics alfo, and would never leave me after-
wards.
The rainy feafon of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 3Oth of September in the fame fo-
lemn manner as before, being the anniverfary of my land-
ing on the ifland, having now been there two years, and
no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I
came there. I fpent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mer-
cies which my folitary condition was attended with, and
without which it might have been infinitely more miser- able. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God had
been pleafed to discover to me, even that it was poffiblc
I might be more happy in this folitary condition, than
I fhould have been in a liberty of fociety, and in all the
pleafures of the world. That he could fully make up
to me the deficiencies of my folitary Rate, and the
want of human fociety by his prefence, and the com-
munications of his grace to my foul; fupporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence here, and hope for his eternal prefence here-
after.
It was now that I began fenfibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mifer-
able circumftances, than the wicked, curfed, abomin-
K 3 - able
able life I led all the paft part of my days; and now I
changed both my forrows and my joys; my very de-
fires altered, my affections changed their guests, and -
my delights were perfectly new, from what they
were at my firft coming, or indeed for the two years
paft.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the country, the anguish of my foul at my
condition would break out upon me, on a fudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deferts I was in; and how
I was a prifoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wildernefs, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the greateft compo-
fures of my mind, this would break out upon me like
a storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep like
a child . fometimes it would take me in the middle of
my work, and I would immediately fit down and figh,
and look upon the ground for an hour or two together;
and this was still worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears, or vent myfelf by words, it would go
off; and the grief having exhaufted itfelf, would
abate.
'But now I began to exercife myfelf with new thoughts;
I daily read the word of God, and applied all the com-
forts of it to my prefent Rate : One morning, being
very fad, I opened the Bible upon theft words, " I will
"never, never leave thee, nor forfake thee:" imme-
diately it occurred, that thefe words were to me; why
elfe should they be direfted in fuch a manner, juft at
the moment when I was mourning over my condition,
as one forfaken of God and man? Well then, faid I,
if God does not forfake me, of what ill confequence
can
tan it be, or what matters it, though the world fhould
forsake me; feeing, on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and fhould lose the favour and bleffing of God,
there would be no comparifon in the lofs.
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forfaken, folitary condition, than ft was probable I
fhould ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thought I was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place.
I know not what it was, but fomething shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not fpeak the words:
How canst thou be fuch a hypocrite, faid I, even audi-
bly, to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which,
however thou mayeft endeavour to be contented with,
thou wouldefl rather pray heartily to be delivered from?
So I flopped there: but though I could not fay, I
thanked God for being there, yet I fincerely gave thanks
to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting pro-
vidences, to fee the former condition of my life, and to
mourn for my wickednefs, and repent. I never opened
the Bible, or shut it,-but my very foul within me blefTed
God for directing my friend in England, without any
order of mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for
affifting me afterwards to fave it out of the wreck of the
fhip.
Thus, and in this difpofition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader the
trouble of fo particular an account of my works this
year as the firft, yet in general it may be obferved,
that I was very feldom idle; but having regularly
divided my time, according to the fevcral daily employ-
ments that were before me, fuch as, Firft, My duty
K 4 to
to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I con-
ftantly fet apart fome time for, thrice every day; Se-
condly, The going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took me up three hours in every morning,
when it did not rain; Thirdly, The ordering, curing,
preferving, and cooking what I had killed or catched
for my fupply: thefe took up great part of the day;
alfo it is to be confidered, that in the middle of the day,
when the fun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to ftir out: fo that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be fuppofed to
work in; with this exception, that fometimes I changed
my hours of hunting and working, and went to work
in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the after-
noon.
To this fhort time allowed for labour, I defire may
be added the exceeding laborioufnefs of my work; the
many hours, which for want of tools, want of help,
and want of fkill, every thing I did took up out of my
time: for example, I was full two and forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in
my cave; whereas two fawyers, with their tools and a
faw-pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame
tree in half a day.
My cafe was this; it was to be a large tree which was
to be cut down, becaufe my board was to be a broad
one. This tree I was three days a cutting down, and
two more in cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to
a log, or piece of timber. With inexpreffible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the fides of it into chips,
till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one fide of it fmooth and flat as a board,
from end to end; then turning that fide downward,
cut
cut the other fide, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and fmooth on both fides. Any
one may judge the labour of my hands in fuch a piece
of work; but labour and patience carried me through
that and many other things: I only obferve this in par-
ticular, to shed the reafon why fo much of my time
went away with fo little work, viz. that what might
be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious time to do alone,
and by hand.
But notwithftanding this, with patience and labour I
went through many things; and indeed every thing
that my circumftances made necessary for me to do, as
will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground
I had manured or dug up for them was not great; for,
as I obferved, my feed of each was not above the quan-
tity of half a peck; for I had loft one whole crop by
flowing in the dry feafon: but now my crop promifed
very well; when, on a fudden, I found I was in dan-
ger of lofing it all again by enemies of feveral forts,
which it was fcarce poffible to keep from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who
tafting the fweetnefs of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as foon as it came up, and ate it fo clofe, that it
could get no time to moot up into ftalk.
This I faw no remedy for, but by making an enclo-
fure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal
of toil; and the more, becaufe it required fpeed.
However, as my arable land was but fmall, fuited to
my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three
weeks timei and shooting fome of the creatures in the
5 day-time,
day-time, I fet my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a ftake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; fo in a little time the enemies for-
fook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace.
But as the beafts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade, fo the birds were as likely to ruin me
now, when it was in the ear; for going along by the
place to fee how it throve, I faw my little crop fur-
rounded with fowls of I know not how many forts,
who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone:
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had my
gun with me) ; I had no fooner mot, but there rofe
up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not feen at all,
from among the corn itfelf.
This touched me fenfibly, for I forefaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
ftarved, and never be able to raife a crop at all, and
what to do I could not tell: However, I refolved not
to lose my corn, ifpoffible, though I should watch it
night and day. In the first place,. I went among it,
to fee what damage was already done, and found they
had fpoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too
green for them, the lofs was not fo great, but that the re-
mainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be faved.
I flaid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could eafily fee the thieves fitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away,
and the event proved it to be fo; for as I walked off,
as if I was gone, I was no fooner out of their fight, but
they dropt down, one, by one, into the corn again. I
was fo provoked, that I could not have patience to flay
till more came on, knowing that every grain that they
eat
eat now, was, as it might be faid, a peck-loaf to me in
the confequence; but coming up to the hedge, I fired
again, and killed three of them. This was what I
wished for; fo I took them up, and ferved them as we
ferve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them
in chains, for a terror to others. It is impoffible to
imagine almoft, that this fhould have fuch an effect as
it had: for the fowls would not only not come to the
corn, but, in short, they forfook all that part of the
island, and I could never fee a bird near the place as
long as my fcare-crows hung there. This I was very
glad of, you may be fure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our fecond harvest of the year, I
reaped my corn.
I was fadly put to it for a fcythe or fickle to cut it
down; and all I could do, was to make one, as well as
I could, out of one of the broad-fwords or cutlafles,
which I faved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my first crop was but fmall, I had no great dif-
ficulty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way,
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great bafket which I had made, and fo rubbed it
out with my hands; and at the end of all my harvest- ing, I found that out of my half peck of feed, I had
near two bufhels of rice, and above two bufhels and an
halfo'f barley; that is to fay, by my guefs, for I had
no meafure at that time.
However, this was great encouragement to me; and
I forefaw that, in time, it would pleafe God to fupply
me with bread: and yet here I was perplexed again,
for I neither knew how to grind or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how'to clean it and part it; nor, if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to
make make it, yet I knew not how to bake it: thefe
being added to my defire of having a good quantity for
gore, and to fecure a constant fupply, I refolved not to
tafte any of this crop, but to preferve it all for feed
againft the next feafon; and, in the mean time, to em-
ploy all my ftudy and hours of working to accomplifh
this great work of providing myfelf with corn and
bread.
It might be truly faid, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few
people have thought much upon, viz. the strange mul-
titude of little things necessary in the providing, pro-
ducing, curing, dreffing, making and finishing this
one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere Rate of nature, found
this to my daily difcouragement, and was made more
fenfible of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of feed-corn, which, as I have faid, came up
unexpeftedly, and indeed to a furprize.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no
fpade or fhovel to dig it: well, this I conquered, by
making a wooden fpade, as I obferved before; but this
did my work in but a wooden manner; and though it
-cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of
iron, it not only wore out the fooner, but made my
work the harder, and made it be performed much worfe.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work
it out with patience, and bear with the badnefs of the
performance. When the corn was fowed, I had no
harrow, but was forced to go over it myfelf, and drag
a great, heavy bough of a tree over it, to fcratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. When
it was growing and grown, I have obferved already how
many
ROBINSON CRUSOE. Mt many things I wanted, to fence it, fecure it, mow or
reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the
chaff, and fave it: then I wanted a mill to grind it,
fieves to drefs it, yeaft and falt to make it into bread,
and an oven to bake it; and yet all thefe things I did
without, as mail be obferved; and yet the corn was an
ineftimable comfort and ad vantage to me too: all this, as
I faid, made every thing laborious and tedious to me, but
that there was no help for; neither was my time fo much
lofs to me, becaufe, as I had divided it, a certain part
of it was every day appointed to thefe works; and as I
refolved to ufe none of the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next fix months to
apply myfelf wholly, by labour and invention, to fur-
nifh myfelf with utensils proper for the performing all
the operations necessary for the making the corn (when
I had it) fit for my ufe.
But first, I was to prepare more land; for I had now
feed enough to fow above an acre of ground. ' Before
I did this, I had a week's work at leaft to make me a
fpade; which, when it was done, was but a forry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to
work with it; however, I went through that, and fowed
my feed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my
houfe as I could find them to my mind, and fenced
them in with a good hedge, the flakes of which were
all cut off that wood which I had fet before, and knew
it would grow; fo that, in one year's time, I knew I
should have a quick or living hedge, that would want
but little repair. This work was not fo little as to
take me up lefs than three months; becaufe a great part
of that time was of the wet feafon, when I could not
go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it rained,
and
and I could not go out, I found employment on the
following occafions, always obferving, that all the
while I was at work, I diverted myfelf with talking to
my parrot, and teaching him to fpeak; and I quickly learned him to know his own name, and at laft to fpeak
it out pretty loud, POLL; which was the firft word I
ever heard fpoken in the ifland by any mouth but my
own. This, therefore, was not my work, but an affift-
ant to my work; for now, as I faid, I had a great em-
ployment upon my hands, as follows, viz. I had long
studied, by fome means or other, to make myself fome
earthen yeflels, which indeed I wanted forely, but knew
not where to come at them: however, confidering the
heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find
out any fuch clay, I might botch up fome fuch pot, as
might,* being dried in the fun, be hard enough and
strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept fo; and as this
was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which
was the thing I was upon, I refolved to make fome as
large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold
what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many aukward ways I took to raife this
paftil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay
not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how
many cracked by the over violent heat of the fun, being
fet out too haftily; and how many fell in pieces with
only removing, as well before as after they were dried:
and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to .
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
months labour.
However, as the fun baked thefe two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpofe for them, that they might not break; and
as between the pot and the basket there was a little room
to fpare, I fluffed it full of the rice and barley-ftraw;
and thefe two pots being to Rand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was bruifed.
Though I mifcarried fo much in my defign for large
pots, yet I made feveral fmaller things with better fuc-
cefs, fuch as little round pots, flat dimes, pitchers, and
pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and the
heat of the fun baked them ftrangely hard.
But all this would not anfwer my end, which was to
• get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear
the fire, which none of thefe could do. It happened,
after fome time, making a pretty large fire for cooking
my meat, when I went to put it out after I had done
with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthen-
ware veffels in the fire, burnt as hard as a ftone, and
red as a tile. I Was agreeably furprized to fee it, and
faid to myfelf, that certainly they might be made to
burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This fet me to studying how to order my fire, fo as
to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, fuch as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had fome lead to do it with; but
J placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a
pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it, with a great heap of embers under them: I
plred
plied the fire with frefh fuel round the outfide, and
•upon the top, till I faw the pots in the infide red-hot
quite through, and obferved that they did not crack at
all; when I faw them clear red, I let them Rand in that
heat about five or fix hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the fand
which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence
of the heat, and would have run into glafs, if I had
gone on; fo I flacked my fire gradually, till the pots
began to abate of the red colour, and watching them
all night, that I might not let the fire abate too faft, in
the morning I had three very good, I will not fay hand-
fome pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard
burnt as could be defired; and one ofthem perfectly glazed with the running of the fand.
After this experiment, I need not fay that I wanted
no fort of earthen-ware for my ufe; but I muft needs
fay, as to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent;
as any one may fuppofe, when I had no way of making
them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman
would make pies, that never learned to raife pafte.
No joy at a thing of fo mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that
would bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I fet one on the fire again,
with fome water in it, to boil me fome meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid, I made
fome very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and
feveral other ingredients requisite to make it fo good
as I would have had it been. *
My next concern was to get me a Bone mortar to
Ramp or beat fome corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that 'perfection of art
with
one pair of hands. To fupply this want I was at
a great lofs; for, of all trades in the world,,! was as per-
fectly unqualified for a Hone-cutter, as for any what-
ever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. I
fpent many a day to find out a great ftone big enough
to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and1 could
find none at all, except what was in the folid rock, and
which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were
the rocks in the ifland of hardnefs fufficient, but were
all of a fandy, crumbling ftone, which would neither
bear the weight of a heavy peftle, nor would break the
corn without filling it with fand; fo, after a great deal
of time loft in fearching for a ftone, I gave it over, and
refolved to look out a great block of hard wood, which
I found indeed much eafier; and getting one as big as I
had ftrength to ftir, I rounded it, and formed it on the
outfide with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the
help of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place
in it, as the Indians in Brafil make their canoes. After
this, I made a great heavy peftle or beater, of the wood
called iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by
against I had my next crop of corn, when I propofed
to myfelf to grind, or rather pound my corn into meal,
to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a fieve, or fearch, to
drefs my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
husk, without which I did not fee it poffible I could
have any bread. This was a moft difficult thing fo
much as but to think on; for to be fare, I had nothing
like the necessary thing to make it, I mean fine, thin
canvas or fluff, to fearch the meal through. And
here I was at a full flop for many months; nor did I
really know what to do; linen I had none left, but
VoL. I. L what
what was mere rags; I had goats-hair, but neither knew
I how to weave it or fpin it; and had I known how,
here were no tools to work it with; all the remedy I
found for this was, at laft I did remember I had, among
the feamen's cloaths which were faved out of the ship, fome neck-cloths of calico or muslin; and with fome
pieces of thefe I made three fmall sieves, but proper
enough for the work: and thus I made shift for fome
years; how I did afterwards, I shall shew in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I fhould make bread when I came to have
corn: for, first, I had no yeast ; as to that part, as there
was no fupplying the want, fo I did not concern my-
felf much about it: but for an oven, I was indeed in
great pain. At length I found out an expedient for that
alfo, which was this; I made fome earthen vessels, very broad, but not deep, that is to fay, about two feet
diameter, and not above nine inches deep; thefe I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid
them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with fome
fquare tiles of my own making and burning alfo; but
I fhould not call them fquare.
When the fire-wood was burned pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon the
hearth, fo as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lie till the hearth was very hot; then fweepingaway all
the embers, I fet down my loaf, or loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers
all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to
the heat; and thus, as well as in the belt oven in the
world, I baked my barley loaves, and became, in a little
time, a mere paftry-cook into the bargain; for I made my felf
i
tflyfelf feveral cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed
I made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into
them, fuppofing I had, except the flefh either of fowls
or goats.
It need not be wondered at> if all thefe things took
me up moft part of the third year of my abode here;
for it is to be obferved, that in the intervals of thefe
things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage;
for I reaped my corn in its feafon, and carried it home
as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no floor
to thrash it on, or inftrument to thrash it with.
And now indeed my Rock of corn increafing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to
lay it up in; for the increafe of the corn now yielded
me fo much, that I had of the barley about twenty
bushels, and of rice as much, or more, infomuch that
now I refolved to begin to ufe it freely; for my bread
had been quite gone a great while: alfo I refolved to
fee what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole
year, and to fow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bufhels of
barley and rice were much more than I could confume
in a year s fo I refolved to fow just the fame quantity
every year that I fowed the laft, in hopes thatfuch a
quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.
All the while thefe things were doing, you may be
fure my thoughts -ran many times upon the profpeft of
land which I had feen from the other fide of the ifland;
and I was not without fome fecret wifhes that I was ori
ihore there; fancying, that seeing the main laad, and
an inhabited country, I might find fome way or other
L 3 to
to convey myfelf farther, and perhaps at laft find Come
means of efcape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of fuch a condition, and how I might fall into
the hands of favages, and perhaps fuch as I might have
reafon to think far worfe than the lions and tigers of
Africa; that if I once came in their power, I fhould
run a hazard of more than a thoufand to one of being
killed, and perhaps of being eateh, for I had heard that
the people of the Caribbean coaft were cannibals, or
man-eaters; and I knew, by the latitude, that I could
not be far off from that shore. That fuppofing they
were not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many
Europeans, who had fallen into their hands, had been
ferved, even when they have been ten or twenty to-
gether; much more I, that was but one, and could
make little or no defence: all thefe things, I fay, which
I ought to have confidered well of, and did caft up ill
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my ap-
prehenfions at first ; but my head ran mightily upon
the thought of getting over to the shore» Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the fhoulder of mutton fail, with which I failed
above a thoufand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain: then I thought I would go and look at
our ship's boat, which, as I have faid, was blown up
upon the shore a great way, in the ftorm, when we
were firft caft away. She- lay almoft where fhe did at
first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward, againft
a high ridge of beachy, rough and,. but no water about
her, as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the
Brafils with her eafilv enough; but I might have eafily
forefeen, that I could no more turn her and fet her
upright upon, her bottom, than I could remove the
ifland: however, I went to the woods, and cut levers
and rollers, and brought them to the boat, refblving to
try what I could do, fuggefting to myfelf, that if I
could but turn her down, I might eafily repair the
damage fhe had received, and fhe would be a very good
boat, and I might go to fea in her very easily. 1 fpared no pains indeed, in this piece of fruitlefs
toil, and fpent, I think, three or four weeks about it:
at laft, finding it impoffible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the fand, to undermine
it, and fo to make it fall down, letting pieces of wood
to thruft and guide it right in'ttie fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to ftir it up
again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it forward,
towards the water; fo I was forced to give it over: and
yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my de-
fire to venture over for the main increafed, rather than
decreafed, as the means for it feemed impoffible.
This, at length, put me upon thinking, whether it
was not possible to make myfelf a canoe, or periagua,
fuch as the natives of thofe climates make, even with-
out tools, or, as I might fay, without hands, viz. of
the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought pof-
fible, but eafy, and pleafed myfelf extremely with the
thoughts of making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the negroes or Indians;
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
L 3 winch
which I lay under, more than the Indians did, viz.
want of hands to move it, when it was made, into the
water, a difficulty much harder for me to furmount,
than all the confequences of want of tools could be to
them; for what was it to me, that when I had chofen
a vaft tree in the woods, I might, with much trouble cut it down, if, after I might be able with my tools to
hew and dub the outside into the proper fhape of a boat,
and burn or cut out the infide to make it hollow, fo as
to make a boat of it; if after all this, I muft leave it
just where I found it, and was not able to launch it
into the water?
One would have thought, if I could have had the
leaft refleftion upon my mind of my citcumftances,
while I was making this boat, I would have immedi-
ately thought how I should get it into the fea: but my
thoughts were fo intent upon my voyage over the fear in it, that I never once confidered how I mould get it
off the land; and it was really, in its own nature, more
eafy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of fea, than
about forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to fet
it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his fenfes awake,
I pleafed myself with the defign, without determining
Whether I was able to undertake it; not but that the
difficulty of launching my boat came often into my
head; but I put a flop to my own enquiries into it, by
this foolish answer which I gave myfelf: Let us firft
tnake it, I will warrant I will find fome way or other
to get it along when it is done. This Was a most prepofterous method; but the eager jiefs of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I
felled felled a cedar tree, I question much whether Solomon
ever had fuch a one for the building of the Temple at
Jerufalem: it was five feet ten inches diameter at the
lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches
diameter at the end of twenty-two feet; after which it
leffened for a while, and then parted into branches. It
was not without infinite labour that I felled this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it, at the bot-
tom; I was fourteen more getting the branches and
limbs, and the vaft fpreading head of it cut off, which
I hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet, and
inexprefiible labour; after this, it coft me a month to
shape it and dub it to a proportion, and. to fomething
like the bottom of a boat, that it might fwim upright
as it ought to do. It coft me near three months more
to clear the infide, and work it out fo as to make an
exact boat of it; this I did indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour,
till I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua,
and big enough to have carried fix and twenty men,
and confequently big enough to have carried me and
all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extreme-
ly delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger
than ever I faw a canoe or periagua that was made of
one tree in my life. Many a weary ftroke it had coft,
you may be fire ; and there remained nothing but to
get it into the water; and had I gotten it into the
water, I make no question but I should have begun the
maddeft voyage, and the moft unlikely to be perform-
ed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they coft me infinite labour too. It lay ar.Out
L 4 one
one hundred yards from the water, and not more: but
the firft inconvenience was, it was up hill, towards the
creek. Well, to take away this difcouragement, I re-
folved to dig into the furface of the earth, and fo make
a declivity; this I began, and it coft me a prodigious
deal of pains; but who grudge pains that have their
deliverance in view? But when this was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was ftill much
as one; for I could no more ftir the canoe than I could
the other boat,
*
Then I meafured the distance of ground, and refolv-
ed to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the
canoe, feeing I could not bring the canoe down to the
water: Well, I began this work; and when I began to
enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug,
how broad, how the ftuffto be thrown Out, I found,
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my
own, it muft have been ten or twelve years before I
should have gone through with it; for the more lay
high, fo that at the upper end it muft have been at
leafl twenty feet deep: fo, at length, though with great
reluctance, I gave this attempt over alfo.
This grieved me heartily; and now I faw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we count
the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own
strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work, I finifhed my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniverfary with the
fame devotion, and with as much comfort as ever be-
fore ; for, by a conftantftudy and serious application of
the word of God, and by the amflance of his grace, I
gained a different knowledge from what I had before:
I entertained different notions of things. I looked
now
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed
no defires about: in a^word, I had nothing indeed to
do with it, nor was ever like to have; fp I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz.
as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and
well might I fay as father Abraham to Dives, "Between
"me and thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the firft place, I was removed from all the wick-
ednefs of the world here ; " I had neither the luft o(
«' the flesh, the luft of the eye, or the pride of life:" I
had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now ca-
pable of enjoying; I was lord of the whole manor, or,
if I pleafed, I might call myfelf king or emperor over
the whole country which I had pofleffion of; there
were no rivals, I had no competitor, none to dispute fovereignty or command with me: I might have raifed
fhip-loadings of corn, but I had no ufe for it; fo I let
as little grow as I thought enough for my occafion: I
had tortoife or turtle enough, but now and then one,
was as much as I could put to any ufe: I had timber
enough to have built a fleet of fhips: I had grapes
enough to have made wine or . to have cured into
raifins, to have loaded that fleet, when it had been
built.
But all I could make ufe of was all that was valuable:
I had enough to eat and to fupply my wants, and what
was all the reft to me? If I killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog muft eat it/ or vermin: if I fowed
more corn than I could eat, it muft be fpoiled: the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground;
I could make no more ufe of them than for fuel, and
that I had no occafion for but to drefs my food.
In
In a word, the nature and experience of things dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are no farther good to us than they
are for our ufe; and that whatever we may heap up in-
deed to give others, we enjoy as much as we can ufe,
and no more. The mot t covetous, griping mifer in
the world, would have been cured of the vice of covet -
oufnefs, if he had been in my cafe; for I poflefled in-
finitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for defire, except it was of things which I had
not, and they were but trifles, through indeed of great
use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money,
as well gold as Oliver, about thirty-fix pounds sterling: Alas! there the nafty, forry, uielefs fluff lay; I had
no manner of bufinefs for it; and I often thought with
myfelf, that I would have given a handful of it for a
grofs of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my
corn; nay, I would have given it all for fix penny-
worth of turnip and carrot-feed out of England, or for
a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As
it was, I had not the leaft advantage by it, or benefit
from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet feafons: and if I
had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
fame cafe, and they had been of no manner of value to
me, because of no ufe.
I had how brought my state of life to be much eafier
in itfelf than it was at firft, and much eafier to my
mind as well as to my body. I frequently fat down to
meat with thankfulnefs, and admired the hand of God's
providence, which had thus fpread my table in the wil-
dernefs: I learned to look more upon the bright fide of
my condition, and lefs upon the dark fide, and to con-
fider,
fider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; and
this gave me fometimes fuch fecret comforts, that I
cannot exprefs them; and which I take notice of here,
to put thofe difcontented people in mind of it, who
cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them,
becaufe they fee and covet fomething that he has not
given them. All our difcontents about what we want,
appeared, to me, to fpring from the want of thankful-
nefs for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
lefs would be fo to any one that should fall into fuch
diftrefs as mine was; and this was, to compare my pre-
fent condition with what I at first expected it fhould
be; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the
good providence of God had not wonderfully ordered
the ship to be caft up nearer to the shore, where I not
only could come at her, but could bring what I got out
of her to the fhore, for my relief and comfort; with-
out which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons
for defence, or gun-powder and fhot, for getting my
food,
I fpent whole hours, I may fay, whole days, in re-
prefenting to myfelf, in the moft lively colours, how
I muft have afted if I had got nothing out of the fhip.
I could not have fo much as got any food, except fifh
and turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any
of them, I muft have perifhed firft: that I should have
lived, if I had not perifhed, like a mere favage: that if
I had killed a goat, or a fowl, by any contrivance, I
had no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh from
the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like
2 beaft.
Theft
Thefe refie&ions made me very fenfibleof the good-
Befs of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
prefent condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes t and this part alfo I cannot but recommend to
the reflection of thofe who are apt, in their 'mifery, to
fay, " Is any affliction like mine?" Let them con-
fider, how much worfe the cafes of fome people are,
and their cafe might have been, if Providence had
thought fit.'
I had another reflection, which affifted me alfo to
comfort my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing
my present condition with what I had deferved, and had therefore reafon to expect from the hand of Provi-
dence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of
the knowledge and fear of God. I had been well in-
ftrufted by father and mother; neither had they been
wanting to me, in their early endeavours, to infufe a
religious awe of God into my mind, a fenfe of my duty,
and of what the nature and end of my being required
of me. But, alas! falling early into the fea-faring
life, which, of all lives, is the moft deflitute of the fear
of God, though his terrors are always before them; I
fay, falling early into the fea-faring life, and into fea-
faring company, all that little fenfe of religion which I
had entertained, was laughed out of me by my mefs-
mates; by a hardened defpifmg of dangers, and the
views of death, which grew habitual to me ; by my
long abfence from all manner of opportunities to con-
verfe with any thing but what was like myfelf, or to
hear any thing that was good, or tending towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the
least fenfe of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverances I enjoyed, fuch as my efcape from
Sallee ;
Sailee; my being taken up by the Portuguefe mailer of
a ship ; my being planted fo well in the Brafils; my
receiving the cargo from England, and the like, I never
had once the words,' " thank God," fo much as on
my mind, or in my. mouth; nor in the greatest dif-
trefs, had I fo much as a thought to pray to him, or fo
much, as to fay, " Lord have mercy upon me; no,
nor to mention the name of God, unlefs it was to fwear
by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already obferved, on the account of
my wicked and hardened life paft: and when I looked
about me, and confidered what particular providences
had attended me fince my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bountifully with me, had not only
punifhed me lets than my iniquity had deferved, but
had fo plentifully provided for me, this gave me great
hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in ftore for me.
With thefe refleftions I worked my mind up, not
only to a refignation to the will of God in the prefent
difpofition of my circumftances, but even to a fincere
thankfulnefs for my condition; and that I, who was
yet a living man, ought not to complain, feeling I had
not the due punifhment of my fins; that I enjoyed fo
many mercies which I had no reafon to have expected in that place; that I ought never more to repine at my
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for
that daily bread which nothing but a crowd of wonders
could have brought: that I ought to consider I had
been fed even by a miracle, even as great as that of
feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a Jong leries of mira-
cles: and that I could hardly have named a place in the
uninhabitable
uninhabitable part of the world, where I could have'
been cast more to my advantage: a place where, as I
had no fociety, which was my affliction on one hand,
fo I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or
tygers to threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or
poisonous, which I might feed on to my hurt; no fa-
vages, to murder and devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of forrow one way,
fo it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing
to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my
fenfe of God's goodnefs to me, and care over me in
this condition, be my daily confolation; and after I
did make a just improvement of thefe things, I went
away, and was no more fad.
I had now been here fo long, that many things which
I brought on more for my help, were either quite gone>
or very much waited and near spent. My ink, as I obferved, had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water, a
little and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce left any ap-
pearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lafted,
I made ufe of it to minute down the days of the month
on which any remarkable thing happened to me: and, firft, by casting up times pair, I remember that there
was a ftrange concurrence of days in the various pro-
vidences which befel me, and which, if I had been
fuperftitioufly inclined to obferve days as fatal or for-
tunate, I might have had reafon to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiofity.
Firft, I had obferved, that the fame day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to fea, the fame day afterwards, I
was taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a flave.
Th«
The fame day of the year that I efcaped out of the
wreck of the fhip in Yarmouth roads, that fame day-
year afterwards, I made my efcape from Sallee in the
boat; and the fame day of the year I was born on, viz.
the 30th of September, that fame day I had my life fo
miraculoufly faved twenty-fix years after, when I was
caft on fhere in this ifland: fo that anywicked life and
my folitary life began both on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the bifcuit which I brought out
of the fhip: this I had hufbanded to the laft degree, al-
lowing myfelf but one cake of bread a day for above a
year; and yet I was quite without bread for near a year
before I got any corn of my own: and great reafon
I had to be thankful that I had any at all; the getting
it being, as has been already obferved, next to mira-
culous.
My cloaths too began to decay mightily: as to linen,
I had had none for a great while, except fome chequered
mirts which I found in the chefts of the other feamen,
and which I carefully preferved, becaufe, many times
I could bear no cloaths on but a shirt ; and it was a
very great help to me that I had, among all the men's
cloaths of the fhip, almoft three dozen of shirts. There
were alfo feveral thick watch-coats of the feamen's,
which were left indeed, but they were too hot to wear;
and though it is true that the weather was fo violent
hot that there was no need of cloaths, yet I could not
go quite naked; no, though I had been inclined to it,
which I was not, nor could I abide the thought of it,
though I was all alone.
The reafon why I could not go quite naked was, I
could not bear the heat of the fun fa well when quite
naked
naked as with fome cloaths on; nay, the very heat
frequently bliftered my fkin, whereas with a shirt off, the air itfelf made fome motion, and whiftling under
that shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No
more could I ever bring myfelf to go out in the heat of
the fun without a cap or hat; the heat of the fun beat-
ing with fuch violence as it does in that place, would
give me the head-ach prefently, by darting fo directly
upon my head, without a cap or hat on, fo that I could
not bear it, whereas if I put on my hat, it would pre*
fently go away.
Upon thefe views, I began to confider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called cloaths, into fome
order; I had worn out all the waiftcoats I had, and my
bufinefs was now to try if I could not make jackets out
of the great watch-cdats that I had by me, and with
fuch other materials as I had; fo I fet to work a tay-
loring, or rather indeed a botching, for I made moft
piteous work of it. However I made fhift to make two
or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would ferve me
a great while: as for breeches or drawers, I made but
a very forry fhift indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I faved the fkins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and
I had hung them up, ftretched out with fticks, in the fun, by which means fome of them were fo dry and
. hard, that they were fit for little, but others I found
very ufeful. The firft thing I made of thefe, was a
great cap for my- head, with the hair on the outfide,
to moot off the rain; and this I performed fo well, that
after this I made me a fuit of cloaths wholly of the
Ikiris, that is to fay, a waistcoat and breeches open at
the knees, and both loose; for they were rather want-
ing
ing to keep me cool than warm. I muft not omit to
acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for if I
was a bad carpenter, I was a worfe taylor. However,
they were fuch as I made very good shift with; and
when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of
my waiftcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very
dry.
After this I fpent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of
one, and had a great mind to make one; I had feen
them made in the Brafils, where they were very ufeful
in the great heats-which are there; and I felt the heats
every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, it was a moft ufeful thing to me, as well for
the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it,
and was a great while before I could make any thing
likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way,
I fpoiled two or three before I made one to my mind;
but at laft I made one that anfwered indifferently well;
the main difficulty I found was to make it to let down:
I could make it fpread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However,
at laft, as I faid, I made one to anfwer, and covered it
with fkins, the hair upwards, fo that it caft off the rain
like a pent-houfe, and kept off the fun fo effectually, that I could walk out in the'hotteft of the weather with
greater advantage than I could before in the coolest, and when I had no need of it, could clofc it, and carry
it under my arm.
Thus I lived-mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely compofed by refigningto the will of God, and
VOL. I. M throwing
throwing myfelf wholly upon the difpofal of his pro-
vidence. This made my life better than fociable; for
when I began to regret the want of converfation, I would ask myfelf, whether thus converting mutually
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may fay,
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not better
than the utmoft enjoyment of human society in the
world?
I cannot fay that after this, for five years, any extra-
ordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the
fame courfe, in the fame pofture and place, juft as be-
fore; the chief things I was employed in, befides my
yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raifins, of both which I always kept up just enough
to have fufficient flock of one year's provifion before-
hand; I fay,' befides this yearly labour, and my daily
labour of going out with my gun, I had one labour to
make me a canoe, which at laft I finifhed. So that by
digging a canal to it of fix feet wide, and four feet deep,
I brought it into the creek, almoft half a mile. As for
the fire, which was fo vastly big, as I made it with-
out considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I
should be able to launch it; fo, never being able to
bring it into the water, or bring the water to it, I was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wifer the next time: indeed, the next
time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, andwas
in a place where I could not get the water to it, at any
lefs distance than, as I have faid, near half a mile; yet
as I faw it was practicable at laft, I never gave it over;
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off
to fea at left. However,
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the fize of it was not at all anfwerable to the defign which
I had in view when I made the firfl; I mean, of ven-
turing over to the terra firma, where it was above forty
miles broad; accordingly, the fmallnefs of my boat
affifted to put an end to that defign, and now I thought
no more of it; but as I had a boat, my next defign was
to make a tour round the ifland; for as I had been on
the other fide, in one place, eroding, as I have al-
ready defcribed it, over the land, fo the difcoveries I
made in that little journey made me very eager to fee
other parts of the coaft; and now I had a boat, I
thought of nothing but failing round the ifland.
For this purpofe, that I might do every thing with
difcretion and confideration, I fitted up a little mail to
my boat, and made a fail to it out of fome of the pieces
of the ship's fails which lay in store, and of which I
had a great flock by me.
Having fitted my maft and fail, and tried the boat, I
found she would fail very well: then I made little
lockers, or boxes, at either end of my boatj to put pro-
vifions, neccflaries and ammunition, &c. into, to be
kept dry, either from rain or the fpray of the fea; and
a little long hollow place I cut in the infide of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down
over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella alfo in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to Rand over my head, and keep the heat of the
fun off me, like an awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the fea, but never went
far out, nor far from the little creek: but at laft, being
eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom,
I refolved upon my tour; and accordingly I viftualled
Ma my
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozens of my
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread,
an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great
deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder
and shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats,
of thofe which, as' I mentioned before, I had faved out
of the feamen's chefls: thefe I took one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the fixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you pleafe, that I felt out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I
expected ; for though the ifland itfelf was not very
large, yet when I came to the eaft fide of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the
fea, fo'me above water, fome under it; and beyond that a
fhoal of fand, lying dry half a league more; fo that I
was obliged to go a great way out to fea to double the
point.
When firft I difcovered them, I was going to give
over my cnterprize, and come back again, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to fea, and
above all, doubting how I should get back again; fo I
came to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an
anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I got
out of the ship. Having fecured my boat, I took my gun and went
on shore, climbing up on a hill, which feemed to over-
look that point, where I faw the full extent of it, and
refolved to venture.
In my viewing the'fea from that hill where I flood, I
perceived a ftrong and indeed a moft furious current,
which ran to the eaft, and even came clofe to the point;
and I took the more notice of it, becaufe I faw there
might
might be fome danger; that when I came into it, I
might be carried out to fea by the ftrength of it, and
not be able to make the ifland again; and indeed had I
not gotten firft up on this hill, I believe it would have
been fo; for there was the fame current on the other
fide the ifland, only that it fet off at a farther distance ;
and I faw there was a ftrong eddy under the shore ; fo
I had nothing to do but to get out of the firft current,
and I fhould prefently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, becaufe the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E. and that being just contrary to the faid current, made a ^reat breach of the
fea upon the point; fo that it was not fafe for me to
keep too clofe to the fhore, for the breach, nor to go
too far off, becaufe of the ftream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated' over-night, the fea was calm, and I ventured:
but I am a warning-piece again to all rafh and ignorant
pilots; for no fooner was I come to the point, when
even I was not my boat's length from the fhore, but I
found myfelf in a great depth of water, and a current
like the fluice of a mill; it carried my boat along with
it with fuch violence, that all I could do, could not
keep her fo much as on the edge of it; but I found it
hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy which
was on my left-hand. There was no wind ftirring to
help me, and all I could do with my-paddles fignified
nothing; and now I began to give myfelf over for loft;
for as the current was on both fides of the ifland, I
knew in a few leagues distance they inuft join again,
and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I fee any
poffibility of avoiding it; fo that I had no profpeft be-
fore me but of perishing ; not by the fea, for that was .
M 3 calm
calm enough, but of ftarving for hunger. I had in-
deed found a tortoife on the fhore, as big almost as I
could lift, and had tofled it into the boat; and I had a
great jar of frefh water, that is to fay, one of my earthen
pots; but what was all this to being driven into the
vaft ocean, where, to be fure, there was no shore, no main land or ifland, for a thoufand leagues at
leaft.
And now I faw how eafy it was for the providence
of God to make even the moft miferable condition of
mankind worfe. Now I looked back upon my defolate,
folitary ifland, as the moft pleafant place in the world,
and all the happinefs my heart could wifh for, was to
be but there again. I stretched out my hands to it,
with eager wishes : "O happy defart!" faid I, " I shall "never fee thee more. O miferable creature !'1 faid I,
"whither am I going?" Then I reproached myfelf
with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined at
my folitary condition; and now what would I give to
be on fhore there again! Thus we never fee the true
fate of our condition, till it is illuftrated to us by its
contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but
by the want of it. It is fcarce poffible to imagine the
confternation I was now in, being driven from my be-
loved ifland (for fo it appeared to me now to be) into
the wide ocean, almoft two leagues, and in the utmost defpair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked
hard, till indeed my ftrength was almoft exhaufted, and
kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, to-
wards the fide of the current which the eddy lay on, as
poflibly I could; when about noon, as the fun paired the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in
my face, fpringing up from the S. S. E. This cheered
my
my heart a little, and efpecially when, in about half an
hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time
I was gotten at a frightful diftance from the ifland, and
had the leaft cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I had no compafs
on board, and would never have know how to have
steered towards the ifland, if I had but once loft fight
of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied my-
felf to get up my maft again, and fpread my fail, ftand-
ing away to the north as much as poffible, to get out of
the current.
Juft as I had fet my mail and fail, and the boat be-
gan to stretch away, I faw even by the clearness of the
water, fome alteration of the current was near; for
where the current was fo ftrong the water was foul;
but perceiving the water clear, I found the current
abate; and prefently I found to the eaft, at about half a
mile, a breach of the fea upon fome rocks: thefe rocks
I found caufed the current to part again, and as the
main ftrefs of it ran away more foutherly, leaving the
rocks to the north eaft, fo the other returned by the
repulfe of the rocks, and made a ftrong eddy, which
read back again to the northwest, with a very sharp stream. They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be refcued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in fuch
like extremities, may guefs what my prefent furprife of
joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the ftream
of this eddy; and the wind alfo frefhening, how gladly
I fpread my fail to it, running cheerfully before the
wind, and with a ftrong tide or eddy under foot.
M 4 This
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the ifland, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried
me away at firft; fo that when I came near the ifland,
I found myfelf open to the northern more of it, that is
to fay, the other end of the ifland oppofite to that
which I went out from.
When I had made fomething more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
fpent, and ferved' me no farther. However, I found
that being between the two great currents, viz. that on
the fouth-fide, which had hurried me away, and that
on the north, which lay about a league on the other
fide; I fay, between thefe two, in the wake of the
.ifland, I found the water at leaft flilr, and running no
way; and having ftill a breeze of .wind fair for me, I
kept on fleering directly for the island, though not
making fuch fresh way as I did before. .
About four o'clock in the evening, being then with-
in a league of the ifland, I found the point of the rocks
which occafioned this difafter, stretching out, as is de-
fcribed before, to the fouthward, and calting off the
current more foutherly, had, ofcourfe, made another
eddy to the north; and this I found Very ftrong, but
not direftly fetting the way my courfe lay, which was
due weft, but almost full north. However, having a
fresh gale, I ftretched acrofs this eddy, flanting north-
weft; and, in about an hour, came within about a mile
of the shore, where it being fmooth water, I foon got to
land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, refolving to lay afide
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and re-
frefhing
frefhing myfelf with fuch things as I had, I brought
my boat clofe to the more, in a little cove that I had
fpied under fome trees, and laid me down to fleep,
being quite fpent with the labour and fatigue of the
voyage.
I was now at a great loft which way to get home
with my boat; I had run fo much hazard, and knew
too much of the cafe, to think of attempting it by the
way I went out; and what might be at the other fide
(I mean the weftfide) I knew not, nor had I any mind
to run any more ventures; fo I only refolved in the
morning to make my way weftward along the fhore,
and to fee if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in fafety, fo as to have her again, if I wanted
her. In about three miles, or thereabout, coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet
or brook, where-I found a very convenient harbour for
my boat, and where me lay as if she had been in a little
dock made on purpofe for her. Here I put in, and
having flowed my boat very fafe, I went on shore to
look about me, and fee where I was.
I foon found I had but a little paft by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to,
that there; fo taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I be-
gin my march. The way was comfortable enough after
fuch a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found every thing
Handing as I left it; for I always kept it in good order,
being, as I laid before, my country-houfe.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the fhade
to reft my limbs; for I was very weary, and fell asleep :
but
but judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a
furprife .1 muft be in, when I was awaked out of my fleep by a voice calling me by my name, feveral times;
"Robin, Robin, Robin Crufoe; poor Robin Crufoe!'
"Where are you, Robin Crufoe? Where are you?
"Where have you been?"
I was fo dead afleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing or paddling, as it is called, the firft part of the day,
and with walking the latter part, that I did not wake
thoroughly; but dozing between fleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that fdmebody fpoke to me: but as
the voice continued to repeat Robin Crufoe, Robin
Crufoe, at laft I began to wake more perfectly, and
was at firft dreadfully frightened, and started up in the
vtmoft confirmation: but no fooner were my eyes
open, but I faw my Poll fitting on the top of the hedge;
and immediately knew it was he that fpoke to me;
for just in fuch bemoaning language I had, ufed to
talk to him and teach him; and he had learned it fo
perfectly, that he would fit upon my finger, and lay
his bill clofe to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Cru-
"foe! Where are you? Where have you been? How
." come you here?" And fuch things as I had taught
him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could be nobody elfe, it was a good
while before I could compofe myself : Firft, I was
amazed how the creature got thither, and then, how
he fhould juft keep about the place and no where elfe:
but as I was well fatisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and holding out my hand, and
calling him by his name, Poll, the fociable creature
came to me, and fat -upon my thumb, as he ufed to do,
and
and continued talking to me, " Poor Robin Crufoe!
"and how did I come here? and where had I been?"
just as if he had been overjoyed to fee me again: and
fo I carried him home along with me.
I now had enough of rambling to fea for fome time,
and had enough to do, for many days, to fit ttill, and
reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my fide of
the ifland; but I knew not how it was pra&icable to
get it about. As to the eaft fide of the ifland, which I
had gone round, I knew well enough there was no
venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and
my very blood run chill, but to think of it: and as to
the other fide of the ifland, I did not know how it
might be there; but fuppofing the current ran with the
fame force againft the shore at the eaft as it paired by it
on the other, I might run the fame rifk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the ifland, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; fo, with
thefe thoughts, I contented myself to be without any
boat, though it had been the product of fo many months
labour to make it, and of fo many more to get it into
the fea.
In this government of my temper, I remained near a
year, lived a very fedate, retired life, as you may well
fuppofe; and my thoughts being very 'much composed, as to my condition, and fully1 comforted in refigning
myfelf to the difpofitions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of
fociety.
I improved myfelf in this time in all the mechanic
exercifes which my neceffities put me upon applying
myfelf to; and I believe I could, upon occafion, have
made
made a very good carpenter, efpecially confidering how
few tools I had.
Befides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfeftion in
my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely eafier and
better; becaufe I made things round and fhapable,
which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But
I think I was never more vain of my own performance,
or more joyful for any thing I found out, than for my
being able to make a tobacco-pipe. And though it
was a very ugly, clumfy thing, when it was done, and
only burnt red, like other earthen-ware, yet-as it was
hard and firm, and would draw the fmoke, I was ex-
ceedingly comforted with it; for I had been always
used to fmoke, and there were pipes in the fhip, but I
forgot them at firft, not thinking that there was tobacco
in the ifland; and afterwards, when I fearched the fhip
again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware alfo I improved much, and made
abundance of necessary bafkets, as well as my inven-
tion mewed me; though not very handfome, yet they
were fuch as were very handy and convenient for my
laying things up in, or fetching things home. For
example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up
in a tree, flay it, and drefs it, and cut it in pieces, and
bring it home in a bafket; and the like by a turtle: I
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two
of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a basket, and leave the raft behind me. Alfo
large, deep baskets were the receivers for my corn;
which I always rubbed out as foon as it was dry, and
cured, and kept it in great baskets. I began
I began now to perceive my powder abated confides ably, and this was a want which it was impoffible for
me to fupply, and I began seriously to confider what I
muft do when I fhould have no more powder; that is
to fay, how I fhould do to kill any goats. I had,
as is obferved, in the third year of my being here, kept
a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes
of getting a he-goat, but I could not by any means
bring it to pafs, 'till my kid grew an old goat; and I
could never find in my heart to kill her, till fhe died at
if
laft of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my refidence,
and, as I have faid, my ammunition growing low, I
fet myfelf to ftudy fome art to trap and fnare the
goats, to fee whether I could not catch fome of them
alive; and particukrly I wanted a fhe-goat great with
young. ,
To this purpofe I made fnares to hamper them; and
I do believe they were more than once taken in them,
but my tackle was not good; for I had no wire, and I
always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I refolvedto try a pit-fall; fo I dugfeveral
large pits in the earth, in places where I had obferved
the goats ufed to feed, and over thofe pits I placed
hurdles of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them; and feveral times I put ears of barley and
dry rice, without fetting the trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could fee the marks of their feet. At length,
I fet three traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all funding, and yet the bait
eaten and gone: this was very difcouraging. How-
ever, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you with
particulars,
particulars, going one morning to fee my traps, I found
in one of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the
others, three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was fo fierce, I durft not go into the pit to him;
that is to fay, to go about to bring him away alive,
which was what I wanted. I could have killed him,
but that was not my bufinefs, nor would it anfwer my
end. So I even let him out, and he ran away, as if he
had been frightened out of his wits. But I had forgot
then, what I had learned afterwards, that hunger will
tame a lion. If I had let him ftay there three or four
days without food, and then have carried him forae
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have
been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty
fagacious, traftable creatures, where they are well
used. However, for the prefent I let him go, knowing no
better at that time : then I went to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, I tied them with firings to-
gether, and with fome difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but
throwing them fome fweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame: and now I found that if I ex-
pefted to fupply myfelf with goat's flesh when I had no
powder or mot left, breeding fome up tame was my
only way; when perhaps I might have them about my
houfe like a flock of fheep.
But then it prefently occurred to me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or elfe they would always
run wild when they grew up; and the only way for this
was, to have fome enclofed piece of ground, well fenced,
either
either with hedge or pale, to keep them in fo effectu-
ally, that thofe within might not break out, or thofe
without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I faw there was an abfolute neceffity for doing it,
my firft piece of work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, viz. where there was likely to be herbage for
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep
them from the fun.
Thofe who underftand fuch inclofures, will think I
had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place
very proper for all thefe, being a plain, open piece of
meadow-land or favannah, (as our people call it in the
weftern colonies) which had two or three little drills of
fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody; I fay,
they will fmile at my forecaft, when I mall tell them I
began my inclofing of this piece of ground in fuch a
manner, that my hedge or pale muft have been at least two miles about. Nor was the madnefs of it fo great
as to the compafs, for if it was ten miles about, I was
like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not con-
fider that my goats would be as wild in fo much com-
pafs as if they had had the whole ifland, and I would have fo much room to chafe them in, that I would never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me; fo I
prefently ftopt short, and, for the first beginning, I
refolved toenclofe a piece of about 150 yards in length,
and 100 yards in breadth; which, as it would main-
tain as many as I should have in any reafonable time,
fo, as my flock increafed, I could add more ground to
my enclofure.
This
This was aging with fome prudence, and I went to
work with courage. I was about three months hedging
in the firfl piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered
the three kids in the belt part of it, and ufed them to
feed as near me as poffible, to make them familiar; and
very often I would go and carry them fome ears of bar-
ley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my
hand; fo that after my enclofure was finished, and I
let them loofe, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a handful of corn.
This anfwered my end; and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years more, I had three and forty, befides
feveral that I took and killed for my food: and after
that I enclofed five feveral pieces of ground to feed them
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as
I wanted; and gates out of one piece of ground into
another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleafed, but milk too; a thing
which, indeed, in my beginning, I did not fo much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable furprize. For now I fet up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day. And as nature, who gives fupplies of food to
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make ufe
of it, fo I, that had never milked a cow, much lefs a
goat, or feen butter or cheefe made, only when I was
a boy, after a great many eflays and mifcarriages, made
me both butter and cheefe at laft, and alfo falt, though
I found it partly made to my hand, by the heat of the
fun upon fome of the rocks of the fea, and never wanted
it afterwards. How mercifully can our Creator treat
his
his creatures, even in thofe conditions in which they
feemed to be overwhelmed in destruction ! How can he
fweeten the bitterest providences, and give us caufe to
praife him for dungeons and prifons! What a table
was here fpread for me in a wildernefs, where I faw
nothing, at firft, but to perish for hunger!
It would have made a ftoic fmile, to have feen me
and my little family fit.down to dinner; there was my
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole ifland; I had
the lives of all my subjects at my abfolute command:
I could hang, draw, give liberty and take it away; and
no rebels among all my subjects. Then to fee how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my fervants: Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only perfon permitted to talk to
me. My dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and had found no fpecies to multiply his kind
upon, fat always at my right-hand; and two cats, one
on one fide the table, and one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of fpecial
favour.
But thefe were not the two cats which I brought on
more at firft, for they were both of them dead, and
had been interred near my habitation by my own hand;
but one of them having multiplied by I know not what
kind of creature, thefe were two which I had preferved
tame; whereas the reft run wild in the woods, and be-
came indeed trpublefome to me at lift ; for they would
often come into my houfe, and plunder me too, till at
laft I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many: at length they left me. With this attendance,
and in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I
VGJL. I. . . b
I
be faid to want any thing but fociety; and of that, in fome time after this, I was like to have too much.
I was fomething impatient, as I have obferved, to have the ufe of my boat, though very loth to run any more
hazards; and therefore fome times I fat contriving ways
to get her about the ifland, and at other times I fat my-
felf down contented enough without her. But I had a
strange uneafinefs in my mind to go down to the point
of the ifland, where, as I have faid, in my laft ramble, I
went up the hill to fee how the shore lay, and how the
current fet, that I might fee what I had to do: this in-
clination encreafed upon me every day, and at length I
refolved to travel thither by land, following the edge of
the shore ; I did fo: but had any one in England been
to meet fuch a man as I was, it muft either have fright-
ened him, or raifed a great deal of laughter; and as I
frequently stood Bill to look at myself, I could not but
fmile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with fuch an equipage, and in fuch a drefs: be pleafed
to take a sketch of my figure as follows.
I had a great, high, fhapelefs cap, made of a goat's
bin,with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the fun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck; nothing being fo hurtful in thefe di-
mates, as the rain upon the flefh under the deaths.
I had a short jacket of goat-fldn, the fkirts coming
down to about the middle of the thighs; and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the fame; the breeches were
made of the fkin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung
down fuch a length on either fide, that, like Panta-
loon's, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of foine-
things, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to
to flap over my legs, and lace on either fide like fpatter-
dafhes; but of a moft barbarous shape, as indeed were
all the reft of my cloaths.
I had on a broad belt of goat-fkin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the fame, inftead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog, on either fide of this,
inftead of a fword and dagger, hung a little faw and a
hatchet; one on one fide, and one on the other. I had
another belt, not fo broad, and fastened in the fame
manner, which hung over my fhoulder; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made of goat-fkin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot : at my back I carried my
basket, and on my fhoulder my gun; and over my head
a great, clumfy, ugly goat-fkin umbrella, but which,
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me,
next to my gun: as for my face, the colour of it was
really not fo mulatto-like, as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or
ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once fuf-
fered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both fchTars and razors fufficient, I had cut
it pretty fhort, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, fuch as I had feen worn by fome Turks at
Sallee; for the Moors did not wear fuch, though the
Turks did: of thefe muftachios or whifkers, I will not
fay they were long enough to hang my hat upon
them; but they were of a length and fhape monftrous
enough, and fuch as, in England, would have paired for frightful.
But all this is by the bye ; for, as to my figure, I had
fo few to obferve me, that it was of no manner of confe-
N 2 quence;
quence; fo I fay no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or fix
days. I travelled first along the fea-fhore, directly to
the place where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to
get upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take
care of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to the fame
height that I was upon before; when looking forward
to the point of the rocks which lay out, and which I
was obliged to double with my boat, as is faid above, I
was furprized to fee the fea all fmooth and quiet; no
rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than
in other places.
I was at a ftrange lofs to underftand this, and refolved
to fpend fome time in the obferving it, to fee if no •
thing from the fets of the tide had occafioned it; but I
was prefently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide
of ebb setting from the weft, and joining with the cur-
rent of waters from fome great river on the shore, must be the occafion of this current; and that, accord-
ing as the wind blew more forcibly from the weft,
or from the north, this current came nearer, or
went farther from the more: for waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly faw the current again
as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half
a league from the shore ; whereas, in my cafe, it fet
clofe upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe
along with it; which, at another time, it would not
have done.
This obfervation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to obferve the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very eafily bring my boat about the
ifland
island again; but when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had fuch a terror upon my spirits, at the
remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I could
not think of it again with any patience; but, on the
contrary, I took up another refolution, which was
more fafe, though more laborious; and this was, that
I would build, or rather make me another periagua or
canoe; and fo have one for one fide of the ifland, and
one for the other.
You are to underftand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the ifland; one, my little for-
tification or tent, with the wall about it, under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time, I
had enlarged into feveral apartments or caves, one
within another. One of thefe, which was the driest and largeft, and had a door out beyond my wall or for-
tification, that is to fay, beyond where my wall joined
to the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen pots
of which I have given an account, and with fourteen
or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or fix
bufhels each, where I laid up my stores of provision, efpecially my corn, fome in the ear, cut offfhort from
the ftraw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long flakes or
piles, thofe piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown fo big, and fpread fo very much, that there
was not the leaft appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther with-
in the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces
of corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and fowed,
and which duly yielded me their harveft, in its feafon;
N 3 and
and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more
land adjoining as fit as that.
Befides this, I had my country feat; and I had now
a tolerable plantation there alfo: for, firft, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair;
that is to fay, I kept the hedge which circled it in,
conftantly fitted up to its ufual height, the ladder ftand-
ing always in the inside : I kept the trees, which at
first were no more than my Rakes, but were now grown
very firm and tall, I kept them always fo cut, that they
might fpread, and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable made, which they did effectually to.my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always
standing, being a piece of a fail fpread over poles fet up
for that purpofe, and which never wanted any repair or
renewing; and under this I had made me a fquab or
couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and
with other foft things; and a blanket laid on them,
fuch as belonged to our fea-bedding which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me: and here, when-
ever I had occafion to be abfent from my chief feat, I
took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclofures for my cattle,
that is to fay, my goats; and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclofe this ground,
I was fo uneafy to fee it kept entire, left the goats would break through, that I never left off, 'till, with infinite
labour, I had ftuck the outfide of the hedge [fo full of
fmall ftakes, and fo near to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a hedge, and there v?as fcarce room
to put a hand through between them; which afterwards,
when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
feafon,
feafon, made the enclofure ftrohg like a wall, indeed
stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I fpared no pains to bring to pafs whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable fupport; for I confidered
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my
hand, would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, but-
ter and cheefe for me as long as I lived in the place,
if it were to be forty years, and that keeping them in
my reach, depended entirely upon my perfecting my
enclosures to fuch a degree, that I might be fure of
keeping them together; which, by this method, indeed
I fo effe&ually fecured, that when thefe little-flakes be-
gan to grow, I had planted them fo very thick, I was
forced to pull fome of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter ftore of raifins,
and which I never failed to preferve very carefully, as
the beft and moft agreeable dainty of my whole diet;
and indeed they were not agreeable only, but phyfical,
wholefome, nourishing, and refrefhing to the laft de-
gree.
As this was alfo about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally flayed and lay here in my way thither; for
I ufed frequently to vifit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order; some- times I went out in her to divert myfelf, but no more
hazardous voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever above a
stone's or two from the shore, I was fo apprehen-
•five of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the
currents or winds, or any other accident: but now I
come to a new fcene of my life,
N4 1$
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly furprized with the print of a
man's naked foot on the fhore, which was very plain
to be feen in the fand: I stood like one thunder-ftruck,
or as if I had feen an apparition; 1 liftened, I looked
round me, I could hear nothing, nor fee any thing; I
went up to a rifingground, to look farther; I went up
the fhore, and down the score, but it was all one; I
could fee no other impreffion but that one: I went to
it again, to fee if there were any more, and to obferve
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room
for that, for there'was exactly the print of a foot, toes,
heel, and every part of a foot: how it came thither I
knew not, nor could I in the leaft imagine; but, after
innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confufed and out of myfelf, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we fay, the ground I went on,
but terrified to the laft degree; looking behind me at
every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree,
and fancying every' flump at a diftance to be a man:
Nor is it possible to defcribe how many various fhapes
my affrighted imagination reprefented things to me in,
how many wild ideas were found every moment, in my
fancy, and what ftrange, unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my caftle, (for fo I think I called
it ever after this) I fled into it like one purfued: whether
I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in
at the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I can-
not remember; no, nor could I remember the next
morning; for never frightened hare fled to cover, or
fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this
retreat.
Iflept
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the
occafion of my fright, the greater my apprehenfions
were; which is fomething contrary to the nature of
fuch things, and efpecially to the ufual practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was fo embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing
but difmal imaginations to myfelf, even though I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it muft
be the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
fuppofition; for how should any other thing in human
fhape come into the place? Where was the vefTel that
brought them? What marks were there of any other
footfteps? Arid how was it poffible a man fhould come
there? But then to think that Satan should take human
fhape upon him in fuch a place, where there could be
no manner of occafion for it, but to leave the print of
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpofe too,
for he could not be fure I fhould fee it, this was an
amufement the other way. I confidered, that the
Devil might have found out abundance of other ways
to have terrified me, than this of the single print of a
foot; that as I lived quite on the other fide of the
ifland, he would never have been fo fimple as to leave
a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one
^whether I fhould ever fee it or not, and in the fand too,
which the first furge of the fea, upon a high wind,
would have defaced entirely: all this feemed incon-
fiftent with the thing itfelf, and with all the notions
we usually entertain of the fubtilty of the Devil.
Abundance of fuch things as thefe affifted to argue
me out of all apprehenfions of its being the Devil;
and I prefently concluded then, that it muft be fome
more dangerous creature, viz. that it muft be fome of
the
;
the favages of the main land over-againft me, who had
wandered out to fea in their canoes, and either driven
by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the
ifland, and had been on fhore, but were gone away
again to fea; being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in
this defolate ifland, as I would have been to have had
them.
While thefe reflections were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful, in my thoughts, that I was fo
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they
did not fee my boat, by which they would have con-
cluded that fome inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have fearched farther for me: then terrible
thoughts racked my imagination about their having
found my boat, and that there were people here; and
that if fo, I should certainly have them come again in
greater numbers, and devour me; that if it would happen fo that they should not find me, yet they would
find my inclofure, deftroy all my corn, carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I mould perifh at laft for
mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which Was founded upon
fuch-wonderful experience as I had had of his goodness, now vanished, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto, could not preferve, by his power, the provi-
lion which he had made for me by his goodnefs. I re-
proached myfelf with my laziness, that would not force any more corn one year than would just ferve me 'till
the next feafon, as if no accident would intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought fo just a reproof, that I
resolved, for the future, to have two or three years
com corn before-hand; fo that whatever might come, I
might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life
of man, and by what fecret different springs are the
affections hurried about, as different circumftances pre-
fent! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-
day we feek what to-morrow we shun ; to-day We desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the ap-
prehenfions of: this was exemplified in me, at this
time, in the moft lively manner imaginable; for I,
whofe only affliction was, thatl feemed banished from
human fociety, that I was alone, circumfcribed by the
boundlefs ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned
to what I called filent life; that I was as one whom
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among
the living, or to appear among the reft of his creatures;
that to have feen one of my own fpecies, would have
feemed to me a raifing me from death to life, and the
greateft bleffing that Heaven itfelf, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could beitow; 1 fay, that I fhould
now tremble at the very apprehenfions of feeing a man,
and was ready to fink into the ground at but the shadow or filent appearance of a man's having fet his foot in
the ifland.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afford-
ed me a great many curious fpeculations afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my first furprize. I con-
fidered, that this was the Ration of life the infinitely
wife and good providence of God had determined for
me; that as I could not forefee what the ends of divine
wifdom might be in all this, fo I was not to difpute
his fovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had
an undoubted right, by creation, to govern and dif-
'. pore pofe of me abfolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I
was a creature that had offended him, had likewife a
judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he
thought fit; and that it was my part to fubmit to bear
his indignation, becaufe I had finned againft him.
I then reflected, that God, who was not only righte-
ous but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
punish and afflict me, fo he was able to deliver me;
that if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquef-
tioned duty to refign myfelf abfolutely and entirely to
his will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty alfo
to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of his daily providence.
Thefe thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
I may fay, weeks and months ; and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occafion I cannot omit, viz.
one morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearance of fa-
vages, I found it difcompofed me very much; upon
which, thofe words of the Scripture came into my
thoughts, '' Call upon me in the day of trouble, and
"I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
Upon this, rifing cheerfully out of my bed, my heart
was not only comforted, but I was guided and encou-
raged to pray earneftly to God for deliverance: when
I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening
it to read, the first words that prefented to me were,
"Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he
"shall ftrengthen thy heart; wait, I fay, on the Lord."
It is impoffible to express the comfort this gave me.
In anfwer, I thankfully laid down the book, and was
no more fad, at leaft on that occafion.
In
In the middle of thefe cogitations, apprehenfions,,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts, one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own, and
that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when
I came on fhore from my boat: this cheered me up a
little too, and I began to perfuade myfelf it was all a
delufion, that it was nothing elfe but my own foot;
and why might not I come that way from the boat, as
well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, I
confidered alfo, that I could by no means tell, for cer-
tain, where I had trod, and where I had not; and that
if, at laft, this was only the print of my own foot, I
had played the part of thofe fools, who try to make
ftories of fpeftres and apparitions, and then are frighten-
ed at them more than any body.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and, nights, fo that I began to ftarve for provi-
fions; for I had little or nothing within-doors but fame barley-cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which ufually was my even-
ing diverfion; and the poor creatures were in great
pain and inconvenience for want of it; and indeed it
almoft fpoiled fome of them, and almoft dried up their
milk.
Heartening myfelf, therefore, with the belief that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
and fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-
houfe to milk my flock: but to fee with what fear I
went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought
thought I was haunted with an evil confcience, or that
I had been lately moft terribly frightened; and fo in-
deed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having feen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination; but I could not perfuade myfelf fully of
this, till.I fhould go down to the shore again, and fee
this print of a foot, and meafure it by my own, and
fee if there was any fimilitude or fitnefs, that I might
be assured it was my own foot; but when I came to
the place, fire, it appeared evidently to me, that when
I laid up my boat I could not poffibly be on more any
where thereabout. Secondly, when I came to meafure
the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not fo
large by a great deal: both thefe things filled my head
with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again
to the highest degree, fo that I fhook with cold like one
in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the be-
lief that fome man or men had been on more there;
or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might
be furprized before I was aware; and what courfe to
take for my fecurity I knew not.
O what ridiculous resolution men take when poflef-
fed with fear! It deprives them of the ufe of those means which reafon offers for their relief. The first thing I propofed to myfelf was, to throw down my en-
clofures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, left the enemy should find them, and then fre-
quent the island in profpeft of the fame, or the like
booty; then to the fimple thing of digging up my two
corn fields, left they fhould find fuch a grain there, and
ftill be prompted to frequent the ifland; then to de-
molifo
5
my bower and tent, that they might not fee any
veftiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther,
in order to find out the perfons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitation
after I was come home again, while the apprehenfions
which had fo over-run my mind were fresh upon me,
and my head was full of vapours, as above: thus fear
of danger is ten thoufand times more terrifying than
danger itfelf, when apparenrto the eyes; and we find
the burthen of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil
which we are anxious about; and, which was worfe
than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from
the refignation I used to praftife, that I hoped to have.
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not
only that the Philiftines were upon him, but that God
had forfaken him; for I did not now take due ways to
compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and
refting upon his providence, as I had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done, I
had at Icaft been more cheerfully fupported under this
new surprise, and perhapscarried through it with more
resolution. This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night, but in the morning I fell afleep; and having, by
the amufement of my mind, been, as it were,'tired, and
my fpirits exhaufted, I flept very foundly, and waked
much better composed than I had ever been before.
And now I began to think fedately; and, upon the ut-
moft debate with myfelf, I concluded, that this island, which was fo exceeding pleafant, fruitful, and no far-
ther from the main land than as I had feen, was not fo
entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that although
there were no stated inhabitants, who lived on the fpot,
yet
4
yet that there might fometimes come boats off from the
fhore, who1, either with defign, or perhaps never but
when they were driven by crofs winds, might come to
this place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and
had not met with the leaft shadow or figure of any peo-
ple yet; and that, if at any time they fhould be driven
here, it was probable they went away again as foon as
ever they could, feeing they had never thought fit to
fix here, upon any occafion, to this time; that the moft
I could fuggeft any danger from, was from any cafual,
accidental landing of straggling people from the main,
who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were
here against their wills; fo they made no ftay here, but
went off again with all poffible fpeed, feldom staying one night on fhore, left they mould not have the help
of the tides and day-light back again; and that there-
fore I had nothing to do but to confider of fome fafe
retreat, in cafe I mould fee any favages land upon the
fpot.
Now I began forely to repent that I had dug my cave
fo large as to bring a door through again, which door,
as I faid, came out beyond where my fortification join-
ed to the rock: upon maturely confidering this, there-
fore, I refolved to draw me a fecond fortification, in
the fame manner, of a femi-circle, at a distance from
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees
about twelve years before, of which I made mention:
thefe trees having been planted fo thick before, they
wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
they would be thicker and ftronger, and my wall would
be foon finished. So that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every
every thing I could think of, to make it strong ; having
in it feven little holes, about as big as I might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall
to about ten feet thick, with continual bringing earth
out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall,
and walking upon it; and through the feven holes I
contrived to plant the mufquets, of which I took notice
that I had got feven on more out of the fhip; thefe, I
fay, I planted like, my cannon, and fitted them into
frames, that held them like a carriage, that fo I could
fire all the feven guns in two minutes time: this wall I
was many a weary month a finifhing, and yet never
thought myfelf safe till it was done.
When this was done, I Ruck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great length every way, as full with
flakes, orfticks, of the ofier-like wood, which I found
fo apt to grow, as they could well Rand ; infomuch,
that I believe I might fet in near twenty thoufand of
them, leaving a pretty large fpace between them and
my wall, that I might have room to fee an enemy, and
they might have no melter from the young trees, if they .
attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years time, I had a thick grove, and
in five or fix years time, I had a wood before my dwel-
ling, growing fo monstrous thick and strong, that it
was indeed perfeftly impaflable; and no men, of what
kind foever, would ever imagine that there was any
thing beyond it, much lefs a habitation. As for the
way which I propofed to myfelf to go in and out, for I
left no avenue, it was by fctting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that; fo when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could
VOL. I. O come
come down to me without mifchieving himfelf; and it
they had come down, they were full on the outfide of
my outer-wall.
Thus I took all the meafures human prudence could
suggest for my own prefervation; and it will be feen,
at length, that they were not altogether without juft
reafon; though I forefaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless pf my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats; they were not only a pre-
fent fupply to me, on every occafion, and began to be
fufficient for me, without the expence of powder and
shot, but alfo without the fatigue of hunting after the
wild ones; and I was loth to lose the advantage of
them, and to have them all to nurfe up over again.
To this purpofe, after long confideration, I could
think of but two ways to preferve them; one was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under-
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and the
other was, to enclofe two or three little bits of land,
remote from' one another, and as much concealed as I
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place; fo that if any difafter happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raife them
again with little trouble and time: and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought
was the moft rational defign.
Accordingly, I fpent fome time to find out the moft
retired parts of the ifland; and I pitched upon one,
which was as private indeed as my heart could wifh for:
it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of
the hollow and thick woods, where, as is obferved, I
almost almost loft myfelf once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eaftern part of the ifland: here
I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, fo fur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an enclofure
by nature; at leaft, it did not want near fo much la-
bour to make it fo, as the other pieces of ground I had
worked fo hard atj
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in lefs than a month's time I had fo fenced it round,
that my flock, or herd, call it which you pleafe, who
were not fo wild now as at first they might be fuppofed
to be, were well enough fecured in it: fo, without any
farther delay, I removed ten young fhe-goats and two
he-goats to this piece; and when they were there, I
continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as
fecure as the other; which, however, I did at more
leifure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was, at the expence of, purely from
my apprehenfions on the account of the print of a
man's foot which I had feen: for, as yet, I never faw
any human creature come near the ifland, and I had
how lived two years under thefe uneafmefles, which in-
deed made my life much lefs comfortable than it was
before; as may well be imagined by any who knows
what it is to live in the conftant fnare of the fear of
man: and this I muft obferve, with grief too, that the
difcompofure of my mind had too great imprefllcns alfp
upon the religious part of my thoughts; for the dread
and terror of falling into the hands of favages and can-
nibals, lay fo upon my fpirits, that I seldom found
myfelf in a due temper for application to my Maker, at
leaft not with the fedate calmnefs and resignation of foul
which I was wont to do; I rather prayed to God as
O 2 under
under great affliction and preflure of mind, furrounded
with danger, and in expeftation every night of being
murdered and devoured before morning: and I muft
teftify, from my experience, that a temper of peace,
thankfulnefs, love, and affection, is much the more
proper frame for prayer, than that of terror and dif-
compofure; and that under the dread of mifchief im-
pending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for
a repentance on afick-bed; for thefe difcompofures af-
feft the mind, as the others do the body; and the dif-
compofure of the mind muft necessarily be as great a
difability as that of the body, and much greater; pray-
ing to God being properly an aft of the mind, not of
the body.
But to go on : fcfter I had thus fecured one part of
my little living Rock, I went about the whole ifland,
fearching for another private place to make fuch an-
other depofit; when wandering more to the weft point
of the ifland than I had ever done yet; and looking out
to fea, I thought I faw a boat upon the fea, at a great
diftance. I had found a perfpeftive-glafs or two, in
one of the feamen's chefts, which I faved out of our
ship, but I had it not about me; and this was fo re-
mote, that I could not tell what to make/of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look
any longer: whether it was a boat or not, I do not
know, but as I defcended from the hill, I could fee no
more of it; fo I gave it over: only I resolved to go no
more out without a perfpeftive-glafs in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been before, I was
prefently convinced, that the feeing, the print of a man's
foot,
foot, was not fuch a strange thing in the ifland as I
imagined; and, but that it was a fpecial providence
that I was caft upon the fide of the ifland where the fa-
vages never came, I fhould eafily have known, that no-
thing was more frequent than for the canoes from the
main, when they happened to be a little too far out at
fea, to fhoot over to that fide of the ifland for harbour;
likewife, as they often met and fought in their canoes,
the victors having taken any prifoners, would bring
them over to this more, where, according to their
dreadful cuftoms, being all cannibals, they would kill
and eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
faid above, being the S. W. point of the ifland, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for
me to exprefs the horror of my mind, at feeing the
shore fpread with fkulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly I obferved a place
where there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
the earth, like a cock-pit, where I fuppdfed the favage
wretches had fat down to their inhuman feaftings upon
the bodies of their fellow creatures.
I was fo aftonifhed with the fight of thefe things, that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myfelf from
it, for a long while: all my apprehenfi^hs were buried
in the thoughts of fuch a pitch of inhuman, hellifh
brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of often, yet I never
had fo near a view of before: in fhort, I turned away
my face from the horrid spectacle ; my ftomach grew
fiek, and 1 was juft at the point of fainting, when na-
ture difcharged the diforder from my stomach ; and
having vomited with uncommon violence, I was a little
O 3 relieved,
relieved, but could not bear to flay in the place a mo-r
ment; fo I got me up the hill again, with all the fpeed
I could, and walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the ifland, I
flood ftill awhile, as amazed, and then recovering my, felf, I looked up with the utmofl affection of my foul,
and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks,
that had call my firft lot in a part of the world where I
was diftinguifhed from fuch dreadful creatures as thefe;
and that, though I had esteemed my present condition
very miferable, had yet given me fo many comforts in
it, that I had ftill more to give thanks for than to com-
plain of; and this, above all, that I had even, in this
miferable condition, been comforted with the know-
ledge of himfelf, and the hope of his bleffing; which
was a felicity more than fufficiently equivalent to all the
misery which I had fuffered, or could fuffer.
In this frame of thankfulnefs I went home to my
caftle, and began to be much eafier now, as to the fafety
of my circumllances, than ever I was before: for 1 ob-
ferved, that thefe wretches never came to this ifland in
fearch of what they could get; perhaps not feeking, not
wanting, or notexpecting any thing here; and having
often, no doubt, been up in the covered, woody part of
it, without finding any thing to their purpofe. I knew
I had been here now almoft eighteen years, and never
faw the leaft footfteps of human creature there before;
and I might be eighteen years more as entirely conceal-
ed as I was now, if I did not difcover myfelf to them,
which I had no manner of occafion to do, it being my
only bufinefs to keep myfelf entirely concealed where I
was, unlefs I found a better fort of creatures than can-;
i jbals to make myfelf known, to.
Yet
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the
wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring and
eating one another up, that I continued penfive and
fad, and kept clofe within my own circle for almost two years after this: when I fay my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations, viz. my caftle, my country-
feat, which I called my bower, and my enclofure in
the woods; nor did I look after this for any other ufe
than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me to thefe hellifh wretches was
fuch, that I was as fearful of feeing them as of feeing
the Devil himfelf; nor did I fo much as go to look
after my boat in all this time, but began rather to think
of making me another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the other boat
round the island to me, left I mould'meet with fome of
thefe creatures at fea; in which, if I had happened to
have fallen into their hands, I knew what would have
been my lot.
Time, however, and the fatisfaftion I had, that I
was in no danger of being difcovered by thefe people,
began to wear off my uneafinefs about them; and I be-
gan to live just in the fame compofed manner as before,
only with this difference, that I ufed more caution,
and kept my eyes more about me than I did before, left
I would happen to be feen by any of them; and par-
ticularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, left
any of them being on the ifland, mould happen to hear
it: and it was, therefore, a very good providence to me,
that I had furnished myfelf with a tame breed of goats,
that I need not hunt any more about the woods, or
moot at tljem; and if I did catch any of them after
O 4 this,
this, it was by traps and fnares, as I had done before;
fo that, for two years after this, I .believe I never fired
my gun once off, though I never went out without it;,
and, which was more, as I had faved three pistols out
of the fhip, I always carried them out with me, or at
least two of them, flicking them in my goat-fkinbelt:
I alfo furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
out of the fhip, and made me a belt to put it on alfo; -
fo that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if you add to the former defcrip-,
tion of myfelf, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broad-fword hanging at my fide in a belt, but without
a fcabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have faid, for fome time,
I feemed, excepting thefe cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, fedate way of living. All the things tended to fhewing me, more and more, how far my
condition was from being miferable, compared to fome
others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which
it might have pleafed God to have made my lot. It
put me upon reflecting, how little repining there would be among mankind, at any condition of life, if,peqple
would rather compare their condition with thofe that
were worfe, in order to be thankful,' than be always
comparing them with thofe which are better, to affift
their murmurings and complainings.
As in my prefent condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, fo indeed I thought that
the frights that I had been in about thefe favage wretch-
es, and the concern I had been in for my own prefer-
vation, had taken off the edge of my invention for my
own conveniencies; and I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much upon,
and
and that was, to try if, I could not make fome of my •
barley into malt, and then try to brew myself fome
beer: this was really a whimsical thought, and I re-
proved myfelf often for the fimplicity of it; for I pre-
fently faw., there would be the want of feveral things
neceflary to the making my beer, that it would be im-
possible for me to fupply: as, firft, cafks to preferve it
in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already,
I could never compafs; no, though I fpent not only
many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it,
but to no purpofe. In the next place, I had no hops
to make it1 keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper
or kettle to make it boil, and yet all thefe things not-
withftanding, I verily believe, had not thefe things in-
tervened, I mean the frights and terrors I was in about
r the favages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought
it to pafs too: for I feldom gave any thing over with-
out accomplifhing it, when I once had it in my head
enough to begin it. But my invention now ran quite
another way; for, night and day, I could think of
nothing but how I might deftroy fome of thefe mon-
fters in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, ifpof-
fible, fave the victim they fhould bring hither to de-
ftroy. It would take up a larger volume than this
whole work is intended to be, to fet down all the con-
trivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my
thoughts, for the destroying thefe creatures, or at leaft
frightening them, fo as to prevent their coming hither
any more* but all this was abortive; nothing could be
possible to take effeft, unlefs I was to be there to do it
myfelf; and what could one man do among them,
when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them
together, with their darts, or their bows and arrows, with
with which they could fhoot as true to a mark as I
could with my gun? '.
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or fix pounds
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would confequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but as, in the firft place, I should be very loth
to wafte fo much powder upon them, my ftore being
now within the quantity of one barrel, fo neither could
I be fure of its going off at any certain time, when it
might furprize them; and, at beft, that it would do
little more than juft blow the fire about their ears, and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the place: fo I laid it afide; and then propofed, that I
would place myfelf in ambulh in fome convenient
place, with my three guns all double-loaded, and, in
the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them,
when I fhould be fure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every fhot; and then falling in upon them with
my three pistols, and my fword, I made no doubt, but
that if there were twenty, I fhould kill them all. This
fancy pleafed my thoughts for fome weeks, and I was fo
full of it, that I often dreamed of it; and fometimes that
I was just going to let fly at them in my fleep. I went
fo far with it in my imagination, that I employed my-
felf feveral days to find out proper places to put myfelf ,
in ambufcade, as I faid, to watch for them; and I went
frequently to the place itself, which was now grown
more familiar to me, and efpecially while my mind was
thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody put-
ting twenty or thirty of them to the fword, as I may call
it; the horror I had at the place, and at the fignals of
the barbarous wretches devouring one another, abetted
my
my malice. Well, at length, I found a place in the
fide of the hill, where I was fatisfied I might fecurely
wait, till I faw any of their boats coming; and might
then, even before they would be ready to come on
shore, convey myfelf, unfeen, into fome thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough
to conceal me entirely; and where I might fit, and ob-
ferve all their bloody doings, and take my frill aim at
their heads, when they were fo clofe together, as that
it would be next to impoffible that I fhould mifs my
mot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of
them at the firft fhot. Jn this place then, I refolved to
fix my design ; and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two mufkets ].
loaded with a brace of flugs each, and four or five
fmaller bullets, about the fize of piftol-bullets; and the
fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan- shot, of the largest size ; I alfo loaded my piftols with about four bullets each; and in this pofture, well pro-
vided with ammunition for a'fecond and third charge,
I prepared myfelf for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the fcheme of my design, and,
in my imagination, put it in practice, I continually
made my tour every.morning up to the top of the hill,
which was from my file, as I called it, about three
miles, or more, to fee if I could obfc rve any boats upon,
the fea, coming near the island, or ftanding over to-
wards it: but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had, for two or three months, constantly kept my watch;
but came always back without any difcovery, there
having not, in all that time, been the least appearance,
not only on, or near the shore, but on the whole
ocean,
ocean, fo far as my eyes or glafles could reach every
way.
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill, to look
out, fo longalfo I kept up the vigour of my defign, and
my fpirits feemed to be all the while in a fuitable form
for fo outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or
thirty naked favages, for an offence which I had not at
all entered into a difcuffion of in my thoughts, any
farther than my paffions were at firft fired by the horror
I conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of
that country; who, it feems, had been suffered by Pro-'
vidence, in his wife difpofition of the world, to have
no other guide than that of their own abominable'and
vitiated paffions; and, confequently, were left, and
and perhaps had been fo for fome ages, to aft fuch hor-
rid things, and receive fuch dreadful customs, as no-
thing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven, and
actuated by fome hellifh degeneracy, could have run
them into. But now, when, as I have faid, I began
to be weary of thefruitlefs excurfion, which I had made
fo long, and fo far, every morning in vain, fo my opi-
nion of the action itfelf began to alter; and I began,
with cooler and calmer thoughts, to confider what I
was going to engage in; what authority or call I had to
pretend to be judge and executioner upon thefe men, as
criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, forfo many
ages, to fuffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioners of his judgments one upon ano-
ther. How far thefe people were offenders againftme,
and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that
blood, which they med promifcuoufly upon one ano-
ther. I debated this very often with myfelf thus: How
do I know what God himfelf judges in this particular
cafe?
ROBINSON CRUSOE. dos cafe? It is certain thefe people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their own confciences reprov-
ing, or their light reproaching them ; they do not know
it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of
divine juftice, as we do, in almost all the fins we com-
mit. They think it no more a crime to kill a captive
taken in war, than we,do to kill an ox; nor to eat
human flefh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I confidered this a little, it followed necef-
farily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that thefe
people were not murderers in the fenfe that I had be-
fore condemned them in my thoughts, any more than
thofe Chriftians were murderers, who often put to death
the prifoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon
many occafions, put whole troops of men to the fword,
without giving quarter, though they threw down their
arms and fubmitted. In the next place, it occurred to
me, that albeit the ufage they gave one another, was
thus brutifh and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to
me; thefe people had done me no injury. That if they
attempted me, or I faw it necessary, for my immediate
prefervation, to fall upon them, fomething might be
faid for it; but that I was yet out of their power, and
they really had no knowledge of me, and confequently
no defign upon me; and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon them. That this would justify the
conduct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities prac-
tifed in America, where they deftroyed millions of thefe
people; who, however they were idolaters and barba-
rians, and had feveral bloody and barbarous rites in
their cuftoms, fuch as sacrificing human bodies to their
idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent
people; and that the rooting them out of the country,
is
is fpoken of with the utmost abhorrence and deteftatior^
by even the Spaniards themfelves at this time, and by
all other Chriftian nations in Europe, as a mere'but-
chery, a bloody and, unnatural piece of cruelty, un-
juftifiable either to God or man; and fuch, as for
which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of
Christian companion: as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the product of a race of
men, who were without principles of tenderness, or
the common bowels of pity to the miferable; which is
reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the
mind.
Thefe confiderations really put me to a paufe, and
to a kind of a full ftop; and I began, by little and little, to be off my defign, and to conclude I had taken wrong
measures in my refolution to attack the favages; and
that it was not my bufinefs to meddle with them, un-
lefs they firft attacked me; and this it was my business, if,pomb!e, to prevent: but that if I weredifcovered and
attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other
hand, I argued with myself, that this really was the
way not to deliver myfelf, but entirely to ruin and de-
ftroy myfelf; for unlefs I was fure to kill every one that
not,only fhould be on fhore atthattime, butthat fhould
ever come on fhore afterwards, if but one of them
efcaped to tell their country people what had happened,
they would come over again by thousands, to revenge
the death of their fellows, and I should only bring upon
myfelf a certain deftruftion, which, at present, I had
no manner of occafion for. Upon the whole I con-
cluded, that neither in principle or in policy, I ought,
one way or other, to concern myfelf in this affair: that
my
my bufinefs was, by all possible means, to conceal my-
felf from them, and not to leave the leaft fignal to them
to guefs by, that there were any living creatures upon the ifland, I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this prudential refolution; and
I was convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty, when I was laying all my bloody
fchemes for the definition of innocent creatures, I
mean innocent as to me: as to the crimes they were
guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do
with them; they were national, and I ought to leave
them to the juftice of God, who is the Governor of
of nations, and knows how, by national punifhments,
to make a juft retribution for national offences, and to
bring public judgments upon thofe who offend in a
public manner, by such ways as beft pleafe him.
This appeared fo clear to me now, that nothing was
a greater fatisfaftion to me, than that I had not been
fuffered to do a thing which I now faw fo much reason to believe would have been no lefs a fin than that of
wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave moft
humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus de-
livered me from blood-guiltinefs; befeeching him to
grant me the protection of his providence, that I might
not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or that I
might not lay my hands upon them, unlefs I had a
more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my
own life.
In this difpofition I continued for near a year after
this; and fo far was I from defiring an occafion for
falling upon thefe wretches, that in all that time, I
never once went up the hill to fee whether there were
any of them in fight, or to know whether any of them
had
had been on shore there or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew any of my contrivances againft them,
or be provoked,' by any advantage which might prefent •
itfelf, to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other fide of the
ifland, and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found
under fome high rocks, and where I knew, by reafon
of the currents, the favages durft not, at leaft would not
come with their boats, upon any account whatfoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had left
there belonging to her, though notneceflary for the bare
going thither, viz. a maft and fail, which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed which
could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however,
it was the beft I could make of its kind: all thefe, I
removed, that there might not be the leaft fhadow of
any difcovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any
human habitation upon the ifland. Befides this, I kept
myfelf, as I faid, more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my conftant em-
ployment, viz. to milk my fhe-goats, and manage my
little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the ifland, was quite out of danger; for
certain it is, that thefe favage people, who fometimes
haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of
finding any thing here, and, confequently, never wan-
dered off from the coast ; and I doubt not, but they
might have been feveral times on fhore, after my appre-
henfions of them had made me cautious, as well as be-
fore; and indeed I looked back.with fome horror upon
the thoughts of what my condition would have been, if
I had chopped upon them, and been difcovered before
that, that, when naked and unarmed, except with one gun,
and that loaded often only with fmall shot, I walked
every where peeping and peering about the island, to
fee what I could get: what a furprize fhould I have
been in, if, when I discovered. the print of a man's
foot, I had, instead of that, feen fifteen or twenty fa-
vages, and found them pursuing me, and by the swift- nefs of their running, no possibility of my efcaping
them. The thoughts of this sometimes funk my very foul within me, and diftreffed my mind fo much, that
I could not foon recover it, to think what I would have
done, and how I not only fhould not have been able to
refill them, but even should not have had prefence of
mind enough to do what I might have done; much lefs,
what now, after fo much confederation and prepara-
tion, I might be able to do. Indeed, after ferious
thinking of thefe things, I would be very melancholy,
and fometimes it would laft a great while; but I re-
folved it all, at laft, into thankfulnefs to jhat Provi-
dence which had delivered me from fo many unfeen
dangers, and had kept from me thofe mifchiefs which
I could have no way been the agent in delivering my-
self from, becaufe I had not the leaft notion of any fuch
thing depending, or the leaft fuppofition of its being
. poffible. This renewed a contemplation which often
had come to my thoughts in former time, when first \
began to fee the merciful difpofitions of Heaven, in the
dangers we run through in this life; how wonderfully
we are delivered when we know nothing of it; how,
when we are in (a quandary, as we call it) a doubt or
hefitation, whether to go this way, or that way, a fecret
hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to get> that way; nay, when fenfe, our own inclination, and
perhaps bufinefs, has called to go the other way, yet a
VoL. I. P ftrange
Strange impreffion upon the mind, from we know not
what fprings, and by we know not what power, fhall
over-rule us to go this way; and it fhall afterwards ap-
pear, that had we gone that way, which we fhould have
gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone,
we fhould have been ruined and loft. Upon thefe, and
many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever I found thofe fecret hints
or pressings of mind, to doing, or not doing any thing
that prefented, or going this way or that way, I never
failed to obey the fecret diflate; though I knew no
other reafon for it, than that fuch a prefTure, or fuch
a hint hung upon my mind: I could give many ex-
amples of the fuccefs of this conduct in the courfe of
my life, but more efpecially in the latter part of my in-
habiting this unhappy ifland; befides, many occafions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if
I had feen with the fame eyes then, that I fee with
now: but it is never too late to be wife; and I cannot
but advife all considering men, whofe lives are attended
with fuch extraordinary incidents as mine, or even
though not fo extraordinary, not to flight fuch fecret
intimations of Providence, let them come from what
invifible intelligence they will: that I shall not difcufs,
and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they are
a proof of the converfe of fpirits, and a fecret commu-
nication between thofe embodied, and thofe unembo-
died, and fuch a proof as can never be withstood ; of
which I shall have occafion to give fome very remark-
able inftances in the remainder of my folitary refidence
in this difmal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it ftrEnje if
I confefs, that thefe anxieties, thefe constant dangers I
lived lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that
I had laid for my future accommodations and conve-
niences. I had the care of my fafety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a
nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noife I
should make should be heard; much lefs would I fire a
gun, for the fame reafon ; and, above all, I was into-
lerably uneafy at making any fire, left the fmoke, which
is vifible at a great diftance in the day, would betray
me; and for this reafon I removed that part of my
bufinefs which required fire, fuch as burning of pots,
and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the woods;
where, after I had been fome time, I found, to my un-
fpeakable confolation, a mere natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vaft way, and where, I dare fay, no
savage, had he been, at the mouth of it, would be fo
hardy as to venture in ; nor indeed would any man elfe,
but one who, like me, wanted nothing fo much as a
fafe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident, (I would fay, if
I did not fee abundant reafon to afcribe all fuch things
now to Providence) I was cutting down fome thick
branches of trees to make charcoal: and, before I go on,
I must obferve the reafon of my making this charcoal;
which was thus: *-
I was afraid of making a fmoak about my habitation,
as I laid before; and yet I could not live there with-
out baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c.; fo I con-
trived to burn fome wood here, as I had feen done in
England, under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal;
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
Pa carry
carry home, and perform the other fervices for which
fire was wanting at home, without danger of fmoak.
But this is by the bye:—While I was cutting down
fome wood here, I perceived, that behind a very thick
branch of low brufh-wood, or under-wood, there was
a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look in it,
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found
it was pretty large; that is to fay, fufficient for me to Rand upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but
I muft confefs to you, that I made more haste out than
I did in, when looking farther into the place, and which
was perfectly dark, I saw two broad mining eyes of
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not,
which twinkled like two stars ; the dim light from the cave's mouth mining directly in, and making the re fleclion.
However, after fomepaufe, I recovered myfelf, and
began to call myfelf a thoufand fools, and tell myfelf,
that he that was afraid to fee the Devil, was not fit to
live twenty years in an ifland all alone; and that I
might well think there was nothing in this cave that
was more frightful than myfelf. Upon this, plucking
up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the Rick flaming in my hand: I had not
gone three steps in, but I was almost as much fright*
ened as I was before; for I heard a very loud figh, like
that of a man in fome pain, and it was followed by a
broken noife, as if of words half expressed, and then a
deep figh again. I stepped back, and was indeed ftracfe
with fuch a furprize, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not anfwer for
it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But ftill
plucking up my fpirits as well as I could, and encou-
raging
raging myfelf a little, with considering that the power
and prefence of God was every where, and was able to
protect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over
my head, I faw lying on the ground, a moft monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, juft making his will, as we
fay, and gafping for life, and dying indeed of mere
old age.
I ftirred him a little, to fee if I could get him out,
and he eflayed to get up, but was not able to rife him-
felf; and I thought with myfelf, he might even lie
there ; for if he had frightened me fo, he would cer-
tainly fright any of the favages, if any of them should be fo hardy as to come in there, while he had any life
in him.
I was now recovered from my furprize, and began to
look round me, when I found the-cave was but very
fmall, that is to fay, it might be about twelve feet over,
but in no manner of shape, neither round or square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but thofe
of mere nature. I obferved alfo, that there was a place
at the farther fide of it, that went in further, but was
fo low, that it required me to creep upon my hands
and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew
not: fo having no candle, I gave it over for that time;
but refolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock
of one of the muskets, with fome wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with fix
large candles of my own making; (for I made very
good candles now of goat's tallow, but was hard fet for
candle-wick, using fometimes rags or rope-yarn, and
fometimes the dried rind of a weed like nettles) and
P 3 . going
going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon
all fours, as I have faid, almoft ten yards; which, by the
way, I thought was a.venture bold enough, consider- ing that I knew not how far it might go, nor what
was beyond it. When I was got through the ftrait, I
found the roof rofe higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was fuch a glorious fight feen in the
ifland, I dare fay, as it was, to look round the fides
and roof of this vault or cave: the walls reflected an
hundred thoufand lights to me from my two candles.
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any
other precious ftones, or gold, which I rather fup-
pofed it to be, I knew not. The place I was in, was
a molt delightful cavity, or grotto of its kind, as could
be expefted, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry
and level, and had a fort of a fmall loofe gravel upon it,
fo that there was no naufeous or venomous creature to be
feen, neither was there any damp or wet on the fides or
roof: the only difficulty in it was the entrance; which,
however, as it was a place of fecurity, and fuch a re-
treat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience;
fo that I was really rejoiced at the difcovery, and re-
folved, without any delay, to bring fame of thofe things
which I was moft anxious about, to this place; par-
ticularly I resolved to bring hither my magazine of
powder, and all my fpare-arms, viz. two fowling-
pieces, for I had three in all; and three mufkets, for
of them I had eight in all : fo I kept at my castle only
five, which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon,
on my outmoft fence; and were ready alfo to take out
upon any expedition. Upon this occafion of removing
my ammunition, I took occafion to open the barrel of
powder which I took up out of the fea, and which had
been
been wet; and I found that the water had penetrated
about three or four inches into the powder, on every
fide, which caking and growing hard, had preferved
the i n fide like a kernel in the shell ; fo that I had near
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of
the cask ; and this was an agreeable difcovery to me
at that time: fo I carried all away thither; never keep-
ing above two or three pounds of powder with me
in my cafe, for fear of a furprize of any kind: I alfo
carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myfelf now like one of the ancient giants,
which were faid to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them: for I perfuaded my-
felf, while I was here, if five hundred favages were to
hunt me, they could never find me out, or if they did,
they would not venture to attack me here. The old
goat whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the
cave, the next day after I made this difcovery; and I
found it much eafier to dig a great hole there, and
throw him in, and cover him with earth, than to drag
him out: fo I interred him there, to prevent offence to
my nofe.
I was now in the twenty third year of my refidence
in this ifland; and was fo naturalized to the place and
the manner of living, that, could I have but enjoyed
the certainty that no favages would come to the place to
disturb me, I could have been content to have capi-
tulated for fpending the reft of my time there, even
to the laft moment, till I had laid me down and died,
like the old goat in the cave. I had alfo arrived to fome
little diverfions and amusements, which made the time
pafs more pleafantly with me a great deal than it did
before: as, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted be-
P 4 fore,
fore, to fpeak; and he did it fo familiarly, and talked
fo articulately and plain, that it was very pleafant to
me; for I believe no bird ever fpoke plainer, and he
lived with me no lefs-than fix and twenty years; how
long he might have lived afterwards I know not, though
I know they have a notion in the Brafils that they live
an hundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no lefs than fixteen years of
my time, and then died of mere old age. As for my
cats, they multiplied, as I have' obferved, to that de-
gree, that I was obliged to fhoot feveral of them at
first, to keep them from devouring me, and all I had;
but at length, when the two old ones I brought with
me were gone, and after fome time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provifion
with me, thev all ran wild into the woods, except two
or three favorites, which I kept tame, and whofe
young, when they had any, I always drowned; and
thefe were part of my family. Befides thefe, I always
kept two or three houfhold kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two more
parrots, which talked pretty well, and would all call
Robin Crufoe, but none like my first; nor indeed did
I take the pains with any of them that I had done with
him. I had alfo feveral tame fea-fowls, whofe names I
know not, that I caught upon the more, and cut their
wings; and the little flakes which I had planted be«
fore my castle wall, being now grown up to a good
thick grove, thefe fowls all lived among thefe low trees,
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me; fo
that, as I faid above, I began to be very well contented
With the life I led, if I might bat have been fecured
from the dread of the favages. Bat it was otherwife
direfted;
directed; and it may not be amifs for all people who
shall meet with my story, to make this juft obfervation
from it, viz. How frequently, in. the course of our
lives, the evil which in itfelf we feek moft to shun, and
which, when we are fallen into it, is the moft dreadful
to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our de-
liverance, by which alone we can be raifed again from
the afflictions we are fallen into. I could give many
examples of this in the courfe of my unaccountable life;
but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable,
than in the circumftances of my laft years of folitary
refidence in this ifland.
It was now the month of December, as I faid
above, in my twenty-third year; and this being the
fouthern folftice, for winter I cannot call it, was the
particular time of my harveft, and required my being
pretty much abroad in the fields; when going out pretty
early in the morning, even before it was thorough day-
light, I was furprized with feeing a light of fome fire
upon the shore, at a diftance from me of about two
miles, towards the end of the ifland where I had ob-
ferved fome favages had been, as before, and not on the
other fide; but, to my great affliction, it was on my
fide of the ifland.
I was indeed terribly furprized at the fight, and
flopped fhort within my grove, not daring to go out,
left I might be furprized ; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehenfions I had, that if these savages, in rambling over the ifland, should find my
corn ftanding or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude, that there
were people in the place, and would then never give
over-till they had found me out: in this extremity, I
went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder
after
after me, and made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.
Then I prepared myfelf within, putting myfelf in a
pofture of defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to fay, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my piftols, and re-
folved to defend myfelf to the laft gafp, not forgetting
seriously to commend myfelf to the divine protection, and earneftly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians: and in this pofture I conti-
nued about two hours; but began to be mighty impa-
tient for intelligence abroad, for I had no fpies to fend
out. After fitting a while longer, and mufing what I
should do in this cafe, I was not able to bear fitting in
ignorance any longer; fo fetting up my ladder to the
tide of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I ob-
fei ved before, and then pulling the ladder up after me,
I fet it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill;
and pulling out my perfpeftive-glafs, which I had taken
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly, on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I prefently
found there were no lefs than nine naked favages, fit-
ting round a fmall fire they had made, not to warm
them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extreme hot; but, as I fuppofed, to drefs fame of their
barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had brought
with them, whether alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the more; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they feemed, to me, to wait for the return of the
flood, to go away again. It is not eafy to imagine
what confufion this fight put me into, efpecially feeing
them come on my fide the ifland, and fo near me too;
but
but when I observed their coming muft be always with
the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be more
fedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with fafety all the time of the tide of flood, if
they were not on more before: and having made this
observation, I went abroad about myharveft-work with
the more composure. As I expected, fo it proved; for as foon as the tide
made to the weftward, I faw them all take boat and
row for paddle, as we call it) all away. I mould have
obferved, that for an hour or more before they went
off, they went a dancing, and I could eafily difcern
their poftures and geftures by myglafs: I could not
perceive, by my niceft obfervation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the leaft covering upon them;
but whether they were men or women, that I could not
diftinguifh.
As foon as I faw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my moulders, and two piftols at my girdle,
and my great fword by my fide, without a fcabbard,
and with all the fpeed I Was able to make, I went away
to the hill where I had difcovered the firft appearance
of all; and as foon as I got thither, which was not in
lefs than two hours, for I could not go apace, being
fo loaden with arms as I was, I perceived there had
been three canoes more of favages at that place; and
looking out farther, I faw they were all at fea together,
making over for the main. This was a dreadful fight
to me, efpecially, when going down to the shore, I
could fee the marks of horror, which the difmal work
they had been about had left behind it, viz. the blood,
the bones, and part of the flefh of human bodies, eaten
and devoured by thofe wretches, with merriment and
fport.
fport. I was fo filled with indignation at the fight,
that I now began to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I law there, let them be whom or how many
foever. It seemed evident to me, that the vifits which
they made thus to this ifland, are not very frequent:
for it was above fifteen months, before any more of
', them came on shore there again; that is to fay, I nei-
ther faw them, or any footfteps or fignals of them, in
all that time; for, as to the rainy feafons, then they are
fure not to come abroad, at least not fo far; yet all this
while I lived uncomfortably, by reafon of the constant apprehenfions of their coming upon me by furprife:
from whence I obferve, that the expectation of evil, is
more bitter than the suffering ; efpecially if there is no
room to flake off that expectation, or thofe apprehen-
• fions.
During all this time I was in the murdering humour;
and took up most of my hours, which fhould have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them, the very next time I should fee them;
efpecially if they should be divided, as they were the laft
time, into two parties; nor did I confider at all, that
if I killed one party, fuppofe ten or a dozen, I was ftill
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and
fo another, even ad infinitum, till I fhould be at length
no lefs a murderer than they.were in being man-eaters,
and perhaps much more fo. I fpent my days now in
great perplexity and anxiety of mind; expecting that
I should, one day or other, fall into the hands of these merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time venture
abroad, it was not without looking round me with the
greateft care and caution imaginable: and now I found,
to my great comfort, how happy it was that I provided
for for a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durft not, upon
any account, fire my gun, efpecially near that fide of
the ifland where they usually came, left I should alarm the favages; and if they had fled from me now, I was
fare to have them come again, with perhaps two or
three hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and
then I knew what to expect. However, I wore out a
year and three months more, before I ever law any
more of the favages, and then I found them again, as
I mail form obferve. It is true, they might have been
there once or twice, but either they made no ftay, or at
leaft I did not fee them: but in the month of May, as
near as I could calculate, and in my four and twentieth
year, I had a very ftrange encounter with them; of
which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
fixteen months interval, was very great; I flept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
ftarted out of my fleep in the night: in the day, great
troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night, I
dreamed often of killing the favages, and of the reafons
why I might juftify the doing of it. But, to wave all
this for a while:—It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden ca-
lendar would reckon, for I .marked all upon the post still; I fay, it was on the fixteenth of May, that it
blew a very great ftorm of wind all day, with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it
was after it; I knew not what was the particular occa-
fion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken
up with very ferious thoughts about my prefent con-
dition, I was furprized with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at fea.
S Thii
ADVENTURES OF This was, to be fare, a furprife of a quite different na-
ture from any I had met with before; for the notions
this put into my thoughts, were quite of another kind,
I started up in the greatest hafte imaginable, and, in a
trice, clapt my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
and pulled it after me, and mounting it the fecond
time, got to the top of the hill, the very moment that
a flash of fire bid me liften for a fecond gun, which ac-
cordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and by the
found, knew that it was from that part of the fea where
I was driven down the current in my boat.
I immediately confidered, that this muft be fame fhip
in diftrefs, and that they had fome comrade, or fome
other ship in company, and fired thefe guns forfignals
of diftrefs, and to obtain help. I had the prefence
of mind, at that minute, as to think, that though I
could not help them, it might be they might help me:
fo I brought together all the dry wood I could get at
hand, and making a good handfome pile, I fet it on
fire upon the hill: the wood was dry, and blazed freely,
and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt
fairly out; that I was certain, if there was any fuch
thing as a fhip, they must needs fee it; and no doubt
they did; for as foon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard
another gun, and after that feveral others, all from the
fame quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till day
broke; and when it was broad day, and the air cleared
up, I faw fomething at a great diftance at fea, full eaft
of the ifland, whether a fail or a hull, I could not
diftinguifh, no not with my glafs; the diftance was fo
great, and the weather ftill fomething hazy alfo; at
leaf it was fo out at a. I looked
... I looked frequently at it all that day, and foon per-
ceived that it did not move; fo I prefently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
be fure, to be fatisfied, I took my gun in my hand,
and ran towards the fouth-fide of the ifland, to the
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the
current, and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I could plainly fee, to my great
forrow, the wreck of-a fhip, caft-away in the night,
upon thofe concealed rocks which I found when I
was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked
the violence of the stream, and made a kind of coun-
ter ftream, or eddy, were the occafion of my recover-
ing from the moft defperate, hopelefs condition that
ever I had been in all my life. Thus,, what is one
man's fafety, is another man's destruction; for, it
feems, thefe men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under wa-
ter, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind
blowing hard at E. and E. N. E. Had they feed the
ifland, as I muft necefTarily fuppofe they did not, they
must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have faved
themfelves on more by the help of their boat; but their
firing of guns for help, efpecially when they faw, as I
imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts:
First, I imagined, that upon feeing my light, they
might have put themfelves into their boat, and endea-
voured to make the more; but that the fea going very
high, they might have been caft-away; other times I
imagined, that they might have loft their boat be-
fore, as might be the cafe, many ways; as, particularly,
by the breaking of the fea upon their ship, which many
time obliges men to stave, or take in pieces their boat,
and fometimes to through it overboard with their own
hands;
hands: other times I imagined, they had fome other
fhip or ships in company, who, upon the fignals of
distress they had made, had taken them up, and carried
them off: other whiles I fancied, they were all-gone off
to fea in their boat, and being hurried away by the cur-
rent that I had been formerly in, were carried out into
the great ocean, where there was nothing but mifery
and perifhing; and that, perhaps, they might by this
time think of ftarving, and of being in a condition to
eat one another.
As all thefe were but conjectures at belt ; fo, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the mifery of the poor men, and pity them; which
had Hill this good effect on my fide, that it gave me
more and more caufe to give thanks to God, who had
fo happily and comfortably provided for me in my de-
folate condition; and that of two ships companies who
were now caft-away upon this part.of the world, not
one life should be spared but mine: I learned here
again to obferve, that it is very rare that the providence
of God cafts us into any condition of life fo low, or
any mifery fo great, but we may fee fomething or other
to be thankful for; and may fee others in worfe cir-
cumftances than our own.
Such certainly was the cafe of thefe men, of whom I
could not fo much as fee room to fuppofe any of them
were faved; nothing could make it rational fo much as
to with or expect that they did not all perish there; ex-
cept the poffifaility only of their being taken up by an-
other (ship in company, and this was but mere poflibi-
lity indeed, for I faw not the leaft fignal or appearance
of any fuch thing. I cannot explain, by any poffible
energy of words, what a ftrange longing or hankering
of
bf defires I felt in my foul upon this fight; breaking
out fometimes thus: O that there had been but one or
two; nay, or but one foul faved out of this fhip, to
have efcaped to me, that I might but have had one
companion, one fellow-creature to have spoken to me,
and to have converfed with! In all the time of my fo-
litary life, I never felt fo earneft, fo ftrong a defire after
the fociety of my fellow-creatures, or fo deep a regret
at the want of it.
There are fome fecret moving fprings in the affec-
tions, which, when they are fet a-going by fome ob-
left in view, or be it fome object, though not in view,
yet rendered prefent to the mind by the power of ima-
gination, that motion carries out the foul, by its im-
petuofity, to fuch violent, eager embracings of the ob jeft, that the abfence of it is infupportable.1 Such were
thefe earneft wifhings, that but one man had been faved!
O that it had been but one! I believe I repeated the
words, O that it had been but one! a thoufand times;
and my defires were fo moved by it, that when I.fpoke
the words, my hands would clinch together, and my
fingers would prefs the palms of my hands, that if I
had had any foft thing'in my hand, it would have
crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in my head
would flrike together, and fet againft one another fo
ftrong, that for fome time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain thefe things, and the reason and manner of them; all I can fay to them is, to de-
fcribe the raft, which was even furprifing to me, when
I found it, though I knew not from what it should pro-
ceed; it was doubtlefs the effect of ardent wishes, and
of ftrong.ideas formed in my mind, realizing the com-
VoL. I. C fort
fort which the converfation of one of my fellow Chris- tians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate or mine, or
both, forbad it: for, till the laft year of my being on
this ifland, I never knew whether any were faved out
of that fhip or no; and had only the affliction, fome
days after, to fee the corps of a drowned boy come on
more at the end of the ifland which was next the fhip-
wreck. He had on no cloaths but a feaman's waiftcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but nothing to direct me fo much as to guefs
what nation he was of: he had nothing in his pockets
but two pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe; the laft was
to me often times more value than the first. It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find fomething on board that might be ufeful to me;
but that did not altogether prefs me fo much, as the
poffibility that there might be yet fome living creature
on board, whofe life I might not only fave, but might,
by faving that life, comfort my own to the laft degree;
and this thought clung fo to my heart, that I could not
be quiet night or day, but I muft venture out in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the reft to
God's providence, I thought the impreflion was fo
strong upon my mind, that it could not be refuted, that it muft come from fome invifible direction, and
that I should be wanting to myfelf if I did not go.
Under the power of this impreffion, I haftened back
to my caftle, prepared every thing for my voyage, took
a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a com-
pafs to fleer by, a bottle of rum, for I had ftill a great
deal of that left, and a bafket-full of raifins: and, thus
loading
loading myself with every thing necessary, I went down' to my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again
for more. My fecond cargo was a great bag-full of
rice, the umbrella, to fet up over my head for a shade, another large pot-full of frefh Water, and about two
dozen of my fmall loaves, or barley-cakes, more thart
before, with a bottle of goat's-milk, and a cheefe; all
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to my
boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put
out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along the more,
came at laft to the utmost point of the ifland on that
fide, viz. N. E. And now I was to launch out into
the ocean, and either to venture, or not to venture.
I looked on the rapid currents which ran conftantly on
both fides of the ifland at a distance, and which were
very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the ha-
Sard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail
me; for I forefaw, that if I was driven into either of
thofe currents, I fhould be carried a great way out to
fea, and perhaps out of my reach, or fight of the ifland
again; and that then, as my boat was but fmall, if any
little gale of wind should rife, I ihould be inevitably
loft.
These thoughts fo opprefled my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and fat
me down upon a little rifing bit of ground, very penfive
and anxious, between fear and defire about my voyage:
when, as I was mufing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come on; upon which my
going was for fo many hours impra&icable. Upon this,
prefently it occurred to me, that I should go up to the
Q..2 highcft
highest piece of ground I could find, and obferve, if I
could, how the fets of the tide or currents lay when
the flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven
another way home with the fame rapidnefs of the cur-
rents. This thought was no fooner in my head, but
I caft my eye upon a little hill, which fufficiently over-
looked the fea both ways, and from whence I had a
clear view of the currents, or fets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myfelf in my return. Here
I found, that as the current of the ebb fet out clofe by
the fouth point of the ifland, fo the current of the flood
fet in clofe by the more of the north fide; and that I
had nothing to do but to keep to the north fide of the
ifland in my return, and I fhould do well enough.
Encouraged with this obfervation, I refolved, the
next morning, to fet out with the first of the tide; and
repofing myfelf for the night in the canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made
firft a little out to fea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current which fet eaftward, and which
carried me at a great rate, and yet did not fo hurry me
as the fouthern-fide current had done before, fo as to
take from me all government of the boat: but having
a ftrong fteerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate
directly for the wreck, and in lefs than two hours I
came up to it. It was a difmal fight to look at; the
ship, which, by its building, was Spanifh, fuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the ftern and quarter
of her were beaten to pieces with the fea; and as her
forecaftle, which ftuck in the 'rocks, had run on with
great violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought
by the board, that is to fay, broken short off; but her
bovvfpiic
bowfprit was found, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came clofe to her, a dog appeared upon
her; who, feeing me coming, yelped and cried, and as
foon as I called him, jumped into the fea, to come to
me; and I took him into the boat, but found him al-
moft dead with hunger and thirft. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he did eat it like a ravenous wolf,
that had been starving a fortnight in the fnow: I then
gave the poor creature fome fresh water, with which, if
I would have let him, he would have burft himself. After this, I went on board; but the firft fight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or fore-
caftle of the ship, with their arms faft about one an-
other. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a ftorm, the fea broke fo
high, and fo continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been
under-water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left
in the ship that had life, nor any goods, that I could fee,
but what were fpoiled by the water: there were fome
cafks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water be-
ing ebbed out, I could fee; but they were too big to
meddle with. I faw feveral chefts, which I believed
belonged to fome of the feamen; and I got two of them
into the boat, without examining what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart
broken off, I am perfuaded I might have made a good
voyage; for, by what I found in thefe two chests, I had
room to fuppofe the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board; and, if I may guefs from the courfe the fteered,
she must have been bound from Buenos Ayres, or the
0.3
Rio de la Plata, in the fouth part of America, beyond
the Brafils, to the Havanna, in the Gulph of Mexico,
and fo perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great
treasure in her, but of no ufe, at that time, to anybody;
and what became of the reft, of her people, I then knew
not.
I found, befides thefe chests, a little cask full of li-
quor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat, with much difficulty. There were feveral muf-
kets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it: as for the mufkets, I had
no occafion for them; fo I left them, but took the pow-
der-horn. I took a fire-fhovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as alfo two little brafs kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and with
this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide begin-
ning to make home again; and the fame evening, about
an rjour within night, I reached the ifland again, weary
and fatigued to the laft degree. I repofed that night in
the boat, and in the morning I refolved to harbour
what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home
to my caftle. After refrefhing myfelf, I got all my
cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
The cafk of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but
not fuch as we had at the Brafils, and, in a word, not
at all good: but when I came to open the chests, I found
feveral things of great ufe to me; for example, I found
in one a fine cafe of bottles, of an extraordinary kind,
and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good ; the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with filver: I found two pots of very good fuccades or
fweatmeats, fo faftened alfo on the top, that the falt
water had not hurt them, and two more of the fame,
which
which the water had fpoiled: I found fome very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and co-
loured neckcloths ; the former were alfo very welcome,
being exceeding refrefhing to wipe my face in a hot
day: befides this, when I came to the till in the cheft,
I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapt up in a paper, fix doubloons of gold, and
fome fmall bars or wedges of gold: I fuppofe they
might all weigh near a pound.
The other cheft, I found, had fome cloaths in it,
but of little value; but, by the circumflances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was
no powder in it, but about two pounds of fine glazed
powder, in three fmall flafks; kept, I fuppofe, for charg-
ing their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole,
I got very little by this voyage that was of any ufe to
me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of occa-
fion for it: it was, to me, as the dirt under my feet; and
I would have given it all for three or four pair of Eng-
lifh fhoes and ftockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my feet for many years:
I had indeed gotten two pair of thoes now, which I
took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I
faw in the wreck; and I found two pair more in one
of the chefts, which were very welcome to me; but
they were not like our English shoes, either for eafe
or fervice, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this feaman's cheft about fifty pieces of eight
in rials, but no gold: I fuppofe this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which feemed to belong to
fome officer. Well, however, I lugged this money
Q_4 home
home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that
before which I brought from our own ship : but it
was great pity, as I faid, that the other part of this flap had not come to my mare; for I am satisfied I might
have loaded my canoe feveral times over with money;
and, thought I, if I ever efcape to England, it might
lie here fafe enough till I may come again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and
fecured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the fhore to her old harbour, where
I laid her up, and made the beft of my way to my old
habitation, where I found every thing fafe and quiet:
fo I began to repofe myfelf, live after my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and, for a while, I
lived eafy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I ufed to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad
fo much: and, if at any time I did ftir with any free-
dom, it was always to the eaft part of the ifland, Where
I was pretty well fatisfied the favages never came, and
where I could go without fo many precautions, and
fuch a load of arms and ammdnition as I always car-
ried with me, if I went the other way. I lived in this
condition near two years more; but my unlucky head,
that was always to let me know it was born to make
my body miferable, was all thefe two years filled with
projects and1 designs, how, if it were poffible, I might
get away from this ifland; for, fometimes I was for
making another voyage to the wreck, though my reafon
told me that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; fometimes for a ramble one way,
fometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had
the boat that I went from Sallee in, I fhould have ven-
tured to fea, bound any where, I knew not whither.
I have
I have been, in all my circumftances, a memento to
thofe who are touched with the general plague of man-
kind, whence, for ought I know, one half of their
miseries flow; I mean that of not being fatisfied with
the ftation wherein God and nature hath placed them:
for, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and
the excellent advice of my father, the oppofition to
which was, as I may call it, my ORIGINAL SIN, my
fubfequent miftakes of the fame kind, had been the
means of my coming into this miferable condition:
for had that Providence, which fo happily feated me at
the Brafils, as a planter, blefled me with confined de-
fires, and I could have been contented to have gone on
gradually, I might have been, by this time, I mean in
the time of my being in this island, one of the most confiderable planters in the Brafils; nay, lam perfuad-
ed, that by the improvements I had made in that little
time I lived there, and the increase I would probably
have made if I had flayed, I might have been worth an
hundred thoufand moidores: and what bufinefs had I to leave a fettled fortune, a well-ftocked plantation,
improving and increafing, to turn fupercargo to Guinea,
to fetch negroes, when patience and time would have
fo increafed our ftock at home, that we could have
bought them at our own door from thofe whofe bufi-
nefs it was to fetch them; and though it had cost us
fomething more, yet the difference of that price was by
no means worth faving at fo great a hazard? But as
this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, fo reflection upon the folly of it, is as ordinarily the exercife of
more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time:
and fo it was with me now; and yet fo deep had the
mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not fa-
tisfy
tisfy myfelf in my station, but was continually poring
upon the means and possibility of my efcape from this
place: and that I may, with the greater pleafure to the
reader, bring on the remaining part of my story, it
may not be improper to give fome account of my first conceptions on the fubjeft of this foolifh fcheme for my
efcape, and how, and upon what foundation I acted. I am now to be fuppofed retired into my caftle after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and
fecured under-water, as ufual, and my condition re-
flowed to what it was before: I had more wealth indeed
than I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I
had no more ufe for it than the Indians of Peru had,
before the Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy feafon in March,
the four and twentieth year of my first fetting foot in
this island of folitarinefs, I was lying in my bed, or
hammock, awake; very well in health, had no pain,
no diftemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any un-
eafinefs, of mind, more than ordinary, but could by no
means clofe my eyes, that is, fo as to fleep; no, not a
wink all night long, otherwife than as follows:
It is as impoffible, as needlefs, to fet down the in-
numerable croud of thoughts that whirled through that
great thorough-fare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time: I run over the whole hiftory of my life
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to
my coming to this ifland, and alfo of that part of my
life fince I came to this ifland. In my reflections upon
the ftate of my cafe fince I came on more on this island, I was comparing the happy pofture of my affairs in the
firft years of my habitation here, compared to the life
of anxiety, fear, and care which I had lived in, ever
face fince I had feen the print of a foot in the sand; not that
I did not believe the favages had frequented the ifland
even all the while, and might have been feveral hun-
dreds of them, at times, on shore there; but I had
never known it, and was incapable of any apprehen-
fions about it: my fatisfaftion was perfeft, though my
danger was the fame, and I was as happy in not know-
ing my danger, as if I had never really been expofed to
it. This furnifhed my thoughts with many very pro-
fitable reflections, and particularly this one: How in-
finitely good that Providence is, which has provided,
in its government of mankind, fuch narrow bounds to
his fight and knowledge of things; and though he
walks in the midst of fo many thoufand dangers, the
fight of which, if difcovered to him, would distract his
mind and fink his fpirits, he is kept ferene and calm,
by having the events of things hid from his eyes, and
knowing nothing of the dangers which furround him.
After thefe thoughts had for fome time entertained
me, I came to reflect ferioufly upon the real danger I
had been in for fo many years in this very ifland, and
how I had walked about in the greateft fecurity, and
with all poffible tranquillity, even when perhaps no-
thing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the cafual
approach of night, had been between me and the worft
kind of definition, viz. that of falling into the hands
of cannibals and favages, who would have feized on
me with the fame view as I would on a goat or a turtle,
and have thought it no more a crime to kill and devour
me, than I did of a pigeon or curlew. I would un-
justly flander myfelf, if I would fay I was ffbt sincerely thankful to my great Preferver, to whofe fingular pro-
teftion I acknowledged, with great humility, that all
thefe
thefe unknown deliverances were due, and without
which I muft inevitably have fallen into their mercilefs
hands.
When thefe thoughts were over, my head was for
fome time taken up in confidering the nature of thefe
wretched creatures, I mean the favages, and how it
came to pafs in the world, that the wife Governor of
all things should give up>any of his creatures to fuch
inhumanity, nay, to fomething fo much below even
brutality itfelf, as to devour its own kind: but as this
ended in fome (at that time fruitlefs) fpeculations, it
occurred to me to enquire, what part of the world thefe
wretches lived in? How far off the coaft was from
whence they came? What they ventured over fo far
from home for? What kind of boats they had? And
why I might not order myfelf and my bufinefs fo, that
I might be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me?
I never fo much as troubled myfelf to confider what
I would do with myfelf, when I came thither; what
would become of me, if I fell into the hands of the
favages; or how I should efcape from them, if they
attempted me; no, nor fo much as how it was poffible
for me to reach the coaft, and not be attempted by fome
or other of them, without any poffibility of delivering
myfelf; and if I fhould not fall into their hands, what
I should do for provifion, or whither I fhould bend my
courfe: none of thefe thoughts, I fay, fo much as
came in my way; but my mind was wholly bent upon
the notion of my paffing over in my boat to the main
land. I looked back upon my prefent condition as the
moft miferable that could poffibly be; that I was not
able to throw myfelf into any thing but death, that
could
be called worfe; that if I reached the more of the main,
I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the shore of Afric, till I came to
fome inhabited country, and where I might find fome
relief; and, after all, perhaps, I might fall in with fome
Chriftian this, that might take me in;.and, if the
worst came to the worft, I could but die; which would
put an end to all thefe miferies at once.
Pray note, all this was the fruit of a difturbed mind,
an impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the
long continuance of my troubles, and the difappoint-
ments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of,
and where I had been fo near the obtaining what I fo
earneftly longed for, viz. fomebody to fpeak to, and
to learn fome knowledge from them of the place where
I was, and of the probable means of my deliverance:
I fay, I was agitated wholly by thefe thoughts; all my
calm of mind, in my refignation to Providence, and
waiting the iffue of the difpofitions of Heaven, feemed
to be fufpended; and I had, as it were, 'no power to
turn-my thoughts to any thing but to the projeft of a
voyage to the main; which came upon me with fuch.
force,, and fuch an impetuofity of defire, that it was
not to be refuted. When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with fuch violence, that it fet my very blood
into a ferment, and my pulfe beat as if I had been in a
fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of my
mind about it; nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhaufted with the very thought of it, threw me into a
found fleep. One would have thought I would have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating
to it: but I dreamed, that as I was going out in the
morning,
ADVENTURES
morning, as ufual, from my caftle, I faw upon the;
fhore two canoes and eleven favages coming to land,
and that they brought with them another favage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when,
on a fudden, the favage that they were going- to kill,
jumped away, and ran'for his life; and I thought, in
my fleep, that he came running into my little thick
grove, before my fortification, to hide himfelf; and
that 1, feeing him alone, and not perceiving that the
others fought him that way, mewed myfelf to him, and
fmiling upon him, encouraged him: that he kneeled
down to me, feeming to pray me to affift him; upon
which I mewed him my ladder, made him go up, and
carried him into my cave, and he became my fervant:
and that, as foon as I had gotten this man, I faid to
myfelf, now I may certainly venture to the main land;
for this fellow will ferve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what to do, and whither to go for provifions, and whi-
ther not to go, for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and what to fhun. I awaked with this
thought; and was under fuch inexpreffible impreffions
of joy, at the profpecl: of my efcape in my dream, that
the difappointments which I felt upon coming to my-
felf, and finding it was no more than a dream, were
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into
a very great dejection of fpirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclufion; that
my only way to go about to attempt an efcape, was, if
poffible, to get a favage into my pofleffion; and, ifpof-
fible, it should be one of their prifoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and would bring hither to
kill. But thefe thoughts ftill were attended with this
difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this without
attacking
RC
attacking a whc
dl; and this \\
and might mif
Jiw% fcrnpled
tart trembled a
Hood, though it
"peat the argnm.
toy king the fa
fed other reafoi
w« enemies to
c*;thatitwa
8™! to deliver
ing in ray
for
to|*.«Klfuch.
lelftoforagreat.
m h
*******
at:
eart;
attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them
all; and this was not only a very defperate attempt,
and might mifcarry, but, on the other hand, I had
greatly fcrupled the lawfulnefs of it to myfelf; and my
heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding fo much
blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not
repeat the arguments which occurred to me againft this,
they being the fame mentioned before: but though I
had other reafons to offer now, viz. that thofe men
were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they
could; that it was fetf-prefervation, in the higheft de-
gree, to deliver myfelf from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defence, as much as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like; I fay, though
thefe things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance, were very terrible
to me, and fuch as I could by no means reconcile my-
felf to for a great while. However, at laft, after many
fecret difputes with myfelf, and after great perplexities
about it, (for all thefe arguments, one way and another,
struggled in my head a long time), the eager prevailing
defire of deliverance, at length mastered all the reft;
and I refolved, if poffible, to get one of thofe favages
into my hands, coft what it would. My next thing
was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very
difficult to refolve on: but as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, fo I refolved to put myfelf upon
the watch, to fee them when the came on shore, and
leave the raft to the event; taking fuch meafures as the
opportunity would present, let be what would be.
With thefe refolutions in my thoughts, I fet myfelf
upon the fcout as often as possible, and indeed fo often,
until I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and 240
ADVENTURES OF
and an half that I waited, and for great part of that time
went out to the weft end, and to the southwest corner of the ifland, almost every day, to fee for canoes, but
none appeared. This was very difcouraging, and be-
gan to trouble me much; though I cannot fay that it
did, iri this cafe, as it had done fome time before that,
viz. wear off the edge of my defire to the thing; but
the longer it feemed to be delayed, the more eager I
was for it: in a word, I was not at firft fo careful to
shun the fight of thefe favages, and avoid being •feen
by them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Be-
ides, I fancied myfelf able to manage one, nay, two
or three favages, if I had them, fo as to make them
entirely flaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do
me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleafed my-
felf with this affair, but nothing ftill prefented; all
my fancies and fchemes came to nothing, for no favages
came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after I entertained thefe no-
tions, and by long mufing had, as it were, refolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occafion to put
them into execution, I was furprifed, one morning
early, with feeing no lefs than five canoes all on shore together on my fide the island, and the people who be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my fight. The
number of them broke all my meafures; for feeing fo
many, and knowing that they always came four or fix,
or fometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take my meafures, to attack
twenty or thirty men fingle-handed; fo lay still in my
caftle, perplexed and difcomforted: however, I put my-
felf into all the fame poftures for an attack that I had
formerly
R<
formerly prove any thing had i
Meningtohea
Kr7 impatient,
and clambered
%«, as usual ;
di(1 not appear j
Pere«vemeby
h'lpofmyper
t!»n dirty in ,
and that they j,
^ it, that
^ all dancing,
eClTMrBA _. i ~
fflr Penpeftive> ,
Where,
"*«
r" <
n, I ° tu
formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if
any thing had prefented. Having waited a good while,
liftening to hear if they made any noife, at length, being
very impatient, I fet my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two
stages, as ufual; Standing fo, however, that my head
did not appear above the hill; fo that they could not
perceive me by any means. Here I obferved, by the
help of my perfpeftive-glafs, that they were no lefs
than thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled;
and that they had had meat drefled. How they had
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miferable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it feems, they were laid by, and were
now brought out for the flaughter. I perceived one
of them immediately fall, being knocked down, I fup-
pofe, with a club or wooden fword, for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately,
cutting him open for their cookery, while, the other
victim was left ftanding by himfelf, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch
feeing himfelf a little at liberty, and unbound, nature
infpired him with hopes of life, and he ftarted away
from them, and ran with incredible fwiftnefs along the
fands, directly towards me, I mean towards that part
of the coaft where my habitation was. I was dread-
fully frightened (that I muft acknowledge) when I per-
ceived him to run my way, and efpecially when, as I
thought, I faw him purfued by the whole body: and
now I expefted that part of my dream was coming to
VOL. I. R pafs,
pafs, and that he would certainly take fhelter in my
grove; but I could not depend, by any means, upon
my dream for the reft of it, viz. that the other favages
would not purfue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my fpirits began to
recover, when I found that there was not above three
men that followed him; and ftill more was I en-
couraged, when I found that he out-ftripped them ex-
ceedingly in running, and gained ground of them; fo
that if he could but hold it for half an hour, I faw
eafily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my cafHe the creek,
which I mentioned often in the first part of my story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this I
faw plainly he muft neceflarily fwim over, or the poor
wretcMlwould be taken there: but when the favage ef-
caping came thither, he made nothing of it, though
the tide was then up, but plunging in, fwam through
in about thirty ftrokes, or thereabouts, landed, and
ran on with exceeding strength and fwiftnefs. When
the three perfons came to the creek, I found that two
of them could fwim, but the third could not, and that,
Banding on the other fide, he looked at the others, but
went no farther, and foon after went foftly back again;
which, as it happened, was very well for him, in the
main. I obferved, that the two who fwam, were yet
more than twice as long fwimming over the creek, as
the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irrefiftibly, that
now was the time to get me a fervant, and perhaps a
companion or afllftant, and that I was called plainly by
Providence to fave this poor creature's life. I imme-
diately ran down the ladders with all poffible expedi-
tion,
tion, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the.
foot of the ladders, as I obferved above, and getting
•up again, with the fame hafte, to the top of the hill, I
crofied toward the fea, and having a very fhort cut, and
all down hill, clapped myfelf in the way, between the
purfuers and the purfued, hollaing aloud to him that
fled, who looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much
frightened at me as at them; but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back; and, in the mean time, I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then
ruming at once upon the foremoft, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece: I was loth to fire,
becaufe I would not have the reft hear; though, at that
diftance, it would not have been eafily heard, and being
out of fight of the fmoke too, they would not have
eafily known what to make of it. Having knocked this
fellow down, the other who purfued him, stopped, as
if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace to-
wards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived prefent-
ly he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me; fo I was then neceffitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The
poor favage who fled, but had ftopped, though he fareboth his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet
was fo frightened with the fire and noife of my piece,
that he stood ftock-ftill, and neither came forward, or
went backward, though he feemed rather inclined to
fly still, than to come on. I hollaed again to him,
and made figns to come forward, which he eafily under-'
flood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and
then a little farther, and stopped again; and I could
then perceive that he Rood trembling, as if he had been
taken prifoner, and had juft been to be killed, as his
R a two
r
two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come
to me, and gave him all the figns of encouragement
that I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for faving his life. I fmiled at him,
and looked pleafantly, and beckoned to him to come
Still nearer :. at length he came clofe to me; and then
he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his
head upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, fet
my foot upon his head; this, it feems, was in token
pf swearing to be my flave for ever. I took him up,
and made much of him, and encouraged him all I
could. But there was more work to do yet; for I per-
ceived the favage whom I knocked down, was not kil-
led, but ftunned with the blow, and began to come to
himself : fo I pointed to him, and fhewing him the
favage, that he was not dead; upon this, he fpoke fome
words to me, and though I could not underftand them,
yet I thought they were pleafant to hear; for they were
the first found of a man's voice that I had heard, my
own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there
was no time for fuch reflections now; the favage who
was knocked down, recovered himfelf fo far as to fit up
upon the ground, and I perceived that my favage began
to be afraid; but when I faw that, I prefented my
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon
this, my favage, for fo I call him now, made a motion
to me to lend him my fword, which hung naked in a
-belt by my fide; fo I did. He no fooner had it, but he
runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut off his head
fo cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have
done it fooner or better; which I thought very flrange
(or one, who, I had reafon to believe, never faw a.
fword

Zkbli/b'Jas
fwc
fwo
they
the \
with
Whe
%n c
with a
ftand,
he had
ed him dian fo
me to 1,
I could,
amazed,
then on
made, Wi
» had ma
followed;
d«d. He'
fo I turn,
them, reft.ifthe
to«iofo.
with
y
fcra
Pedahc
fword in his life before, except their own wooden
fwords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden fwords fo fharp, fo heavy, and
the wood is fo hard, that they will cut off heads even
with them, aye, and arms, and that at one blow too.
When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in
fign of triumph, and brought me the fword again, and
with abundance of geftures, which I did not under-
ftand, laid it down, with the head of the favage that
he had killed, just before me. But that which aftonilh-
ed him moft was, to know how I killed the other In-
dian fo far off: fo pointing to him, he made signs to
me to let him go to him; fo I bad him go, as well as
I could. When he came to him, he flood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him firfl on one fide,
then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it feems, was just in his breaft, where
it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had
followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite
dead. He took up his bow and arrows, and came back;
fo I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow
me, making figns to him, that more might come after
them. Upon this, he figned to me that he would bury
them with fand, that they might not be feen by the
rest, if they followed; and fo I made figns to him again
to do fo. He fell to work; and, in an inftant, he had
fcraped a hole in the fand with his hands, big enough
to bury the firft in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him, and did fo alfo by the other: I believe he
had buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then call-
ing him away, I carried him not to my castle, but quite
away to my cave, on the farther part of the ifland: fo
R 3 • . I did
2-16
ADVENTURES Off
I did not let my dream come to pafs in that part, viz, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raifins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed
in great diftrefs for, by his running; and having re-
refreshed him, I made figns for him to go lie down and
sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel
of rice-ftraw, and a blanket upon it, which I ufed to
sleep upon myfelf fometimes; fo the poor creature lay
down, and went to sleep. He was a comely, handfome fellow, perfeftly well
made, with ftraight, strong limbs, not too large, tall
and well shaped ; and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a
fierce and furly afpeft, but feemed to have fomething
very manly in his face; and yet he had all the fweetnefs
and foftnefs of an European in his countenance too,
especially when he fmiled. His hair was long and
black, not curled, like wool; 'his forehead very high
and large; and a great vivacity and fparkling fharpnefs
in his eyes. The colour of his fkin was not quite
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly, yellow,
naufeous tawny, as the Brafilians and Virginians, and
other natives of America are, but of a bright kind of a
dun olive colour, that had in it fomething very agree-
able, though not very eafy to defcribe. His face was
round and plump; his nofe fmall, not flat like the
negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine
teeth well fet, and as white as ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half
an hour, he awaked again, and comes out of the cave
to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I had
iatheenclofure juft by: when he efpied me, he came
running.
running to me, laying himfelf down again upon the
ground, with all the poffible figns of an humble, thank-
ful difpofition, making a great many antic gestures to
Ihew it. At laft, he lays his head flat upon the ground,
close to my foot, and fets my other foot upon his head,
as he had done before; and after this, made all the figns
to me of subjection, fervitude and submission imagin-
able, to .let me know how he would ferve me fo long
as he lived. I underftood him in many things, and
let him know I was very well pleafed with him. In a little time I began to fpeak to him, and teach him to
fpeak to me; and, firft, I let him know his name
should be FRIDAY, which was the day I faved his life;
I called him fo for the memory of the time. I likewife
taught him to fay Mafter; and then let him know that
was to be my name: I likewife taught him to fay yes
and no, and to know the meaning of them: I gave
him fame milk in an earthen pot, and let him fee me
drink it before him, and fop my bread in it; and gave
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made figns that it was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that night; but as
foon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with
me, and let him know I would give him some cloaths,
at which he feemed very glad, for he was ftark naked.
As we went by the place where he had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the place, and mewed me
the marks that he had made to find them again, male ing figns to me that we would dig them up again, and
eat them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to
come away ; which he did immediately, with great fub-
R 4 million.
_ .
miffion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to
fee if his enemies were gone; and pulling out my glafs,
I looked, and faw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance of them or their canoes; fo
that it was plain they were gone, and had left their two
comrades behind them, without any fearch after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and confequently more curio •fity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
fword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dextroufly,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
felf; and away we marched to the place where thefe
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get fome
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart funk
within me, at the horror of the spectacle ; indeed it
was a dreadful fight, at leaft it was fo to me, though
Friday made nothing of it. The place -was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood,
and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and fcorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there, after
a victory over their enemies. I faw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday,
by his signs, made me underftand, that they brought
over four prifoners to feast upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and -that he, pointing to himfelf, was
the fourth: that there had been a great battle between
them and their next King, whole fubjefts, it seems, he
had been one of, and that they had taken a great num-
ber of prifoners, all which were carried to feveral places
by
by thofe who had taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by thefe wretches
upon thofe they brought hither.
I caufed Friday to gather all the fkulls, bones, flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to afhes. I found Friday had ftill a hankering ftomacJi
after fome of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his
nature; but I difcovered fo much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the leaft appearance of it,
that he durfl. not difcover it: for I had, by fome means,
let him know, that I would kill him, if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our caftlej
and there I fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest , I mentioned, and which
I found in the wreck; and which, with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well: and then I made him a jer-
kin of g'oat's-fkin, as well as my fkill would allow; and
I was now grown a tolerable good taylor; and I gave
him a cap, which I had made of a hare's-fkin, very Cone. venient, and fashionable enough; and thus he was
clothed, for the prefent, tolerably well; and was
mighty well pleased to fee himfelf almoft as well cloath-
ed as his mafter. It is true, he went aukwardly in,
thefe things at firft; wearing the drawers, was.very
aukward to him, and the fleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders, and the infide of his arms; but a little
cafing them where he complained they hurt him, and
ufing himfelf to them, at length he took to them very
well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with'
him, I began to confider where I should lodge him;
and
ADVENTURES OF
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
eafy myfelf, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the infide of
the raft, and in the outfide of the first : and as there was
a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal
framed door-cafe, and a door to it of boards, and fet it
up in the paffage, a little within the entrance; and
caufing the door to-open on the infide, I barred it up
in the night; taking in my ladders too: fo that Friday
could no way come at me in the infide of my innermost wall, without making fo much noife in getting over,
that it muft needs waken me; for my first wall had now
a compleat roof over it of long poles, covering all my
tent, and leaning up to the fide of the hill; which was
again laid acrofs with fmaller Ricks, instead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thicknefs with the rice-
straw, which was ftrong, like reeds; and at the hole
cr place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I
had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been
attempted on the outfide, would not have opened at all,
but would have fallen down, and made a great noife;
and as to weapons, I took them all into my fide every
night. But I needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving, fincere fervant
than Friday was tome; withoutpaffions, fullennefs or
defigns, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affec-
tions were tied to me, like thofe of a child to a father;
and I dare fay, he would have facrificed his life for the
faving mine, upon any occafion whatfoever: the many
teftimonies he gave me of this, put it out of doubt; and
foon convinced me, that I needed to ufe no precau-
tions, as to my fafety, on his account.
This
T
that
in hi
of his
of his
and tbi
ias be;
iindnef:
oi
fidelity,
he pfcaft.
they are' a
^ right u
are; and tl
enj]
Jt
H,'""*'
This frequently gave me occasion to obferve, and <
that with wonder, that however it had pleafed God,
in his providence, and in the government of the works
of his hands, to take from fo great a part of the world
of his creatures, the beft ufes to which their faculties
and the powers of their fouls are adapted; yet that he
has beftowed upon them the fame powers, the fame
reafon, the fame affeftions, the fame fentiments of
kindnefs and obligation, the fame paffions and refent-
ments of wrongs, the fame fenfe.of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good and re-
ceiving good, that he has given to us; and that when
he pleafes to offer them occafions of exerting thefe,
they ard as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to
the right ufes for which they were beftowed, than we
are: and this made me very melancholy fometimes, in
reflecting, as the feveral occafions prefente'd, how mean
a ufe we make of all thefe, even though we have thefs
powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word
added to our uaderftanding; and why it has pleafed
God to hide the like 'faying knowledge from fo many
millions of fouls, who, if I might judge by this poor
favage, would make a much better ufe of it than we
did.
From hence, I fometimes was led too far, to invade the fovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign
the juftice of fo arbitrary a difp'ofition of things, that
should hide that light from fome, and reveal it to
others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I
shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this conclu-
fion: Firft, That we did not know by what light and
law thefe should be condemned; but that as God was» neceflarily,
neceflarily, and by the nature of his being, infinitely
holy and just, fo it could not be, but if thefe creatures
were all fentenced to abfence from himfelf, it was on
account of finning against that light, which, as the
Scripture fays, was a law to themfelves, and by such rules as their confciences would acknowledge to be juft,
though the foundation was not difcovered to us: and,
fecondly, That ftill, as we all are the clay in the hand
of the potter, no veflel could fay to him, Why haft
thou formed me thus?
But to return to my new companion :—I was greatly,
delighted with him, and made it my bufinefs to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but efpecially to make him fpeak,
and understand me when I fpoke: and he was the aptest fcholar that ever was, and particularly was fo merry, fo
constantly diligent, and fo pleafed when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that it
was very pleafant to me to talk to him: and now my
life began to be fo eafy, that I began to fay to myfelf,
that could I but have been fafe from more favages, I
cared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's ftomach, I ought to let him tafte other
flesh : fo I took him out with me one morning to the
woods; I went indeed intending to kill a kid out of
my own flock, and bring it home, and drefs it; but as
I was going, I faw a me-goat lying down in the fhade,
and two young kids fitting by her. I catched hold of
Friday p- Hold, fays I; ftand ftill: and made figns to
him
him not to i
hot,and kill
who had at a d
enemy, but di
done, was fern,looked fo ama;
down. He di,
1 had killed i,
whether he Was
thought I Was
kl*eled down t
pwtmany thii
"% ^ that tl;
torn.
,.Ifoon found;
'»no
P°
to h
***
*
the
H
e 1
all
him not to ftir; immediately I prefented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had at a diftance, indeed, feen me kill the favage his
enemy, but did not know or could imagine how it was
done, was fenfibly furprized, trembled and fhook, and
looked fo amazed, that I thought he would have funk
down. He did not fee the kid I shot at, or perceived
I had killed it, but ripped up his waiflcoat, to feel
whether he was not wounded; and, as I found prefently,
thought I was refolved to kill him: for he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, faid a
great many things I did not understand; but I could
eafily fee that the meaning was, to pray me not to kill
him.
I foon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did?
and while he was wondering and looking to fee how the
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again: and, by
and by, I faw a great fowl, like a hawk, fitting upon a
tree within shot ; fo, to let Friday underftand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again, pointed at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought
it had been a hawk; 1 fay, pointing to the parrot, and
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him fee I would make it fall, I made him underftand
that I would loot and kill that bird; accordingly I
. fired, and bade him look, and immediately he faw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withftanding all I had faid to him; and I found he was
the more amazed, becaufe he did not fee me put any
thing into the gun, but thought that there muft be fome
wonderful
S54
ADVENTURES 6Fi
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beaft, bird, or any thing near or far
off; and the aftonifhment this created in him was fuch,
as could not wear off for a long time; and I believe, if
I would have let him, he would have worfhipped me
and my gun: as for the gun itfelf, he would not fo
much as touch it for feveral days after; but he would
fpeak to it, and talk to it, as if it had anfwered him,
when hp was by himself ; which, as I afterwards learned
of him, was to defire it apt to kill him. Well, after
his aftonifhment was a little over at this, I pointed to
him to run and fetch the bird I had fhot, which he did,
but ftaid fome time; for the parrot not being quite
dead, was fluttered away a good diftance from the place
where she fell: however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage
to charge the gun again, and not td let him fee me do
it, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
prefent; but nothing more offered at that time: fo I
brought home the kid, and the fame evening I took the
fkin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and having
a pot fit for that purpofe, I boiled or stewed fome of
the flesh, and made fome very good broth; and after I
had begun to eat fome, I gave fome to my man, who
feemed very glad of it, and liked it very well: but that
which was ftrangeft to him, was to fee me eat falt with
it. He made a fign to me that the.fait was not good to
eat; and putting a little into his own mouth, he feemed
to naufeate it, and would fpitand fputterat it, wafhing
his mouth with frefh water after it: on the other hand,
I took fome meat'into my mouth without falt, and I
pretended to fpit and fputter for want of falt, as fafl as
he
le had done
would never c
at leaft, not:
little.
Having thus
wasrefolved tc
piece of the ki
fetting tv
and one acrofs
«ofs lick, lett
Fr'day admired
that I ,
hear.
The
's flefh
ay
I
n,
he had done at the falt; but it would not do: he
would never care for falt with his meat or in his broth;
at least, not for a great while, and then but a very
little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and, broth, I.
was refolved to feast him the next day with roafting a
piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before the
fire on a firing, as I had feen many people do in Eng-
land, fetting two poles up, one on each fide the fire,
and one acrofs on the top, and tying the firing to the
crofs stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the flefh, he took fo many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at
left he told me, as well as he could, he would never
eat man's flesh any more; which I was very glad to
hear.
The next day, I fet him to work to beating fome
corn out, and fifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I bbferved before; and he foon understood how to do
it as well as I, efpecially after he had feen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of it;
for after that I let him fee me make my bread, and bake
it too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myfelf.
I began now to confider, that having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I muft provide more ground for my
harveft, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I ufed
to do; fo I marked out a larger piece of land, and be-
gan the fence in the fame manner as before, in which
Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard,
but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was
for; that it was for corn to make more bread, becaufe
he
he was now with me, and that I might have enough for
him and myfelf too. He appeared very fenfible of that
part, and let me know that he thought I had much
more labour upon me, on his account, than 1'had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if
I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleafanteft year of all the life I led in this
place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almoft every thing I had occafion to call
for, and of every place I had to fend him to, and talked
a great deal to me; fo that, in short, I began now to
have feme ufe for my tongue again, which indeed I had
very little occasion for before, that is to fay, about
fpeech. Befides the pleafure of talking to him, I had a
fingular fatisfaftion in the fellow himfelf; his fimple,
•unfeigned honefty, appeared to me more and more every
day, and I began really to love the creature; and, on
his side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love, any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering iri-
clination to his own country again; and having taught
him English fo well, that he could anfwer me almoft
any questions, I asked him, whether the nation that he
belonged to never conquered in battle? at which he
fmiled, and faid, Yes, yes, we always fight the better;
that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and
fo we began the following difcburfe:
MASTER. You always fight the better; how came
you to be taken prifoner then, Friday?
FRIDAY. My nation beat much, for all that.
MASTER. How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
FRIDAY.
FRIDAY.
place where i
my nation o
me no was;
thousand. MASTER.
fom the hand
FRIDAY.
makc go in tt
time.
MASTER. .1
Md eat them,
. V
FRIDAY. Q
MASTER. E
clfe Pl
ace.
°f
FRIDAY. They more many than my nation in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three and me;
my nation over beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two, great
thoufand.
MASTER. Bat why did not your fide recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
FRIDAY. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that
time.
MASTER. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away
and eat them, asthefedid?
FRIDAY. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all
up.
- MASTER. Where do they carry them?
FRIDAY. Go to other place, where they think.
MASTER. Do they come hither?
FRIDAY. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
elfe place.
MASTER. Have you been here with them?
FRIDAY. Yes,,l have been here; (points to the
N. W. fide of the ifland, which, it feems, was their
fide.)
By this I underftood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the favages who used to come on
shore on the farther part of the ifland, on the fame man-eating occafions he was now brought for; and,
sometime after, when I took the courage to carry him
to that fide, being the fame I formerly mentioned, he
prefently knew the place, and told me he was there once
when they eat up twenty men, two women, and one
child: he could not tell twenty in English, but he num-
VoL. I, S bered
ADVENTURES OF
bered them, by laying fo many ftones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, becaufe it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this difcourfe with him, I
asked him how far it was from our ifland to the more,
and whether the canoes were not often loft: he told me
there was no danger, no canoes ever loft; but that,
after a little way out to fea, there was a current and
wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternoon. This I underftood to be no more than the
fets of the tide, as going out or coming in; but I after-
wards underftood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth,
or the gulph of which river, as I found afterwards, our
ifland lay; and that this land which I perceived to the
W, and N. W. was the great ifland Trinidad, on the
north point of the mouth of the river. I afked Friday
a thoufand queftions about the country, the inhabi-
tants, the fea, the coaft, and what nations were near;
he told me all he knew, with the greateft opennefs
imaginable. I asked him the names of the feveral na-
tions of his fort of people, but could get no other name
than Caribs; from whence I easily underftood, that
thefe were, the Caribbees, which our maps place on the
part of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Mar-
tha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the fetting of the moon,
which muft be weft from their country, there dwelt
white-bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great
whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had
killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
underftood, he meant the Spaniards; whofe cruelties
in
in America, h;
and were rem,
tofon. •
I enquired i
from this iflanc
told me, yes, ,
not underftand
to me what he
^"difficulty
K as big as',
We began to
!lmel Certa
find ar
and,
g the 10
that he
S*
in America, has been fpread over the whole country,
and were remembered by all the nations, from father
to fan. •
I enquired if he could tell me how I might come from this ifland, and get among thofe white men: he
told me, yes, yes, I might go in two canoe. I could
not underfland what he meant, or make him defcribe
to me what he meant by two canoe; till, -at left, with
great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large
boat, as big as two canoes. This part of Friday's dif-
courfe began to relish with me very well; and from this
time I entertained fome hopes that, one time or other,
I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor favage might be a means
to help me do it. •
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to fpeak to me, -and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him, one
time, who made him? The poor creature did under-
stand me at all, but thought I had afked him who was
his father: but I took it up by another handle, and
afked him who made the fea, the ground we walked on,
and the hills and woods? He told me it was one old
Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he could defcribe
nothing of this great perfon, but that he was very old,
much older, he faid, than the fea or the land, than the
moon or the flars. I afked him then, if this old per-
son had made all things, why did not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look of
innocence faid, All things fay O to him. I afked
him if the people who die in his country went away any
where? He faid yes; they all went to Benamuckee:
S 2 then
t6o
ADVENTURES OF
then I asked him whether thefethey eat up went thither
too? He faid yes.
From thefe things, I began to inftruft him in the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards
heaven; that he governs the world by the fame power
and providence by which he made it; that he was om-
nipotent, and could do every thing for us, give every
thing to us, take every thing from us; and thus, by
degrees, I opened his eyes. He liftened with great at-
tention, and received with pleafure the notion of Jefus
Chrift being fent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear
us, even into heaven. He told me one day, that if our
God could hear us up beyond the fun, he muft needs be
a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a
little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to
the great mountains where he dwelt, to fpeak to him. I
asked him if ever he went thither to fpeak to him? He
faid no; they never went that were young men; none
went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee , that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy; and that they went to fay O,
(for he called faying prayers) and then came back, and
told them what Benamuckee faid. By this I obferved,
that there is prieft-craft even amongft the moft blinded,
ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making
a fecret of religion, in order to preferve the veneration
of the people to the clergy, is not only to be found in
the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in th?
world, even among the moft brutifh and barbarous
favages.
I en-
I endeavou
Friday;' and i
men going up
Benamuckee,
fora thence \v
% met with;
itmuftbewirh
of h'm his reb
r , World, to
God'andthem
f11101*and too
to tilt in
r,
th
aPP ar d
°f
«>
b«»,lk
H':
'fc;
ROBINSON CRUSOE; Mt I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday "and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to fay O to their god
Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he faid, was much more fo; that if
they met with any anfwer, or fpake with any one there,
it muft be with an evil fpirit: and then I entered into a
long difcourfe with him about the Devil, the original
of him his rebellion againft God, his enmity to man,
the reafon of it, his fetting himfelf up in the dark parts
of the world, to be worfhipped instead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude
mankind to their ruin; how he had a fecret accefs to our
paffions and to our affections, and to adapt his fnares fo
to our inclinations, as to caufe us even to be our own
tempters, and run upon our deftruftion by our own
choice.
I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right notions in his mind about the Devil, as it was about the being
of a God : nature affifted all my arguments to evidence
to him even the necessity of a great First Caufe and
over-ruling, governing Power, a fecret, direfting Pro-
vidence, and of the equity and justice of paying ho-
mage to him that made us, and the like. But there
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
fpirit; of his original, his being, his nature, and, above
all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to
do fo too: and the poor creature puzzled me once in
fuch a manner, by a queftion merely natural and in-
nocent, that I fcarce knew what to fay to him. I had
been talking a great deal to him of the power of God,
his omnipotence, his aversion to fin, his being a con-
fuming fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he had
made us all, he could deftroy us and all the world in a
83 moment;
moment; and he Iiftened with great ferioufnefs to me
all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the Devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and ufed all his
malice and fkillto defeat the good defigns of Provi-
dence, and to ruin the kingdom of Chrift in the world,
and the like. Well, fays Friday, but you fay God is
fo ftrong, fo great; is he not much ftrong, much might
as the Devil? Yes, yes, fays I, Friday, God is ftronger
than the Devil: God is above the Devil, and therefore
we pray to God to tread him down under our feet, and
enable us to refift his temptations, arid quench his fiery
darts. But, fays he again, if God much ftronger,
much might as the Devil, why God no kill the Devil,
fo make him no more do wicked?
I was ftrangely furprifed at this queftion; and, after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill qualified for a cafuift, or a folver
of difficulties; and, at firft, I could not tell what to
fay; fo I pretended not to hear him, and asked him
what he faid? But he was too earneft for an anfwer, to
forget his question, fo that he repeated it in the very
fame broken words as above. By this time I had re-
covered myself a little, and I faid, God will at laft
punifh him feverely; he is referved for the judgment,
and is to be caft into the bottomlefs pit, to dwell with
everlafting fire. This did not fatisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my words," RESERVE AT
LAST: Me no underftand; but why not kill the Devil
now; not kill great ago? Y ou may as well afk me, faid
I, why God does not kill you and me, when we do
wicked things here that offend him? We are preferved
to repent and be pardoned. He mufed a while at this;
Well,
Well, well,
fo you, I, D, Hon all. J
M degree; j
fflere notions
able creatures
worftip or ho
as the confeq
^ine revelati
Ch»ft, and of
diat°rofthene
fo°t-ftool0fG
^on from H
J«. therefore,
Jelus
'are the
Before di
"> man,
would
off
? n
his
Well, well, fays he, mighty affeftionately, that well:
fo you, I, Devil, all wicked, all preferve, repent, God
pardon all. Here I was run down again by him to the
laft degree; and it was a teftimony to me, how the
mere notions of nature, though they will guide reafon-
able creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a
worfhip or homage due to the fupreme being of God,
as the confequence of our nature, yet nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jefus
Chrift, and of redemption purchafed for us, of a Me-
diator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the
foot-ftool of God's throne; I fay, nothing but a reve-
lation from Heaven can form thefe in the foul; and
that, therefore, the gofpel of our Lord and Saviour
Jefus Chrift, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit
of God, promifed for the Guide and Sanftifier of his
people, are the abfolutely neceflary inftruftors of the,
fouls of men in the faving knowledge of God, and the
means of falvation.
I therefore diverted the prefent dilcourfe between me
and my man, rifing up haftily, as upon fome fudden
occasion of going out; then fending him for something a good way off, I ferioufly prayed to God that he
would enable me to inftruft favingly this poor favage;
affifting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God,
in Chrift reconciling him to himfelf, and would guide
me to fpeak fo to him from the word of God, as his con-
fcience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his foul
faved. When he came again to me, I entered into a
long difcourfe with him upon the subject of the re-
demption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the
doctrine of the gofpel preached from Heaven, viz. of re-
pentance towards God, and faith in our blefled Lord
S 4 Jefus.
ADVENTURES OF
Jefus. I then explained to him, as well as I could,
why our blefled Redeemer took not on him the nature
of angels, but the feed of Abraham; and how, for
that reafon, the fallen angels had no share in the re-
demption; that he came only to the loft fheep of the
houfe of Ifrael, and the like.
I had, God knows, more fincerity than knowledge
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in ftruftion, and muft acknowledge, what I believe all
that aft upon the fame principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really informed and in ftrufted myfelf in many things, that either I did not
know, or had not fully confidered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind, upon fearching into
them, for the information of this poor favage; and I
had more affection in my enquiry after things upon
this occasion, than ever I felt before: fo that, whether
this poor wild wretch was the.better for me, or no, I
had great reafon to be thankful that ever he came to
me: my grief f^t lighter upon me, my habitation grew
comfortable to me beyond meafure: and when I re-
flefted, that in this solitary life which I had been con-
fined to, I had not only been moved myfelf to look up
to Heaven, and to feek to the hand that had brought
me there, but was now to be made an inftrument, un-
der Providence, to fave the life, and, for ought I knew,
the foul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true
knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jefus, in whom is life
eternal: I fay, when I reflefted upon all thefe things,
a fecret joy ran through every part of my foul,
and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to
this place, which I had fo often thought the moft
dreadful
dreadful of all
fallen me.
In tflis than!
of my time, at hours between
the years whi<
completely hapf
pinefscanbefoi
w« now a g0<
tho"gh I have i
Patents. \ve
no farther off f,
of v
anc
bet
ev,
r
ln
Plain in
In
dreadful of all afflictions that could pofiibly have be-
fallen me.;
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the converfation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was fuch, as made the
three years which we lived there together, perfectly and
completely happy, if any fuch thing as complete hap-
pinefs can be formed in a sublunary ftate. This favage
was now a good Chriftian, a much better than I;
though I have reafon to hope, and blefs God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, reftored
penitents. We had here the word of God to read, and
no farther off from his Spirit to inftruft, than if we
had been in England. I always applied myfelf, in read-
ing the Scripture, to let him know, as well as I could,
the meaning of what I read; and he again, by his feri-
ous enquiries and queftionings, made me, as I faid be-
fore, a much better fcholar in the Scripture-knowledge
than I should ever have been by my own private mere
reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from ob-
ferving here alfo, from experience, in this retired part
of my life, viz. how infinite and inexpreffible a blessing it is, that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of falvation by Chrift Jefus, is fo plainly laid down in
the word of God, fo eafy to be received and under-
Rood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made me
capable of underflanding enough of my duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of fincere repentance
forfny fins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and
falvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obe-
dience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor, I mean human; fo, the fame
plain jnftruftion, fufficiently ferved to the enlightning
this
R
ADVENTURES OF
this favage creature, and bringing him to be fuch
a Chriftian, as I have known few equal to him in my
life.
As to all thedifputes, wrangling, strife and conten-
tion, which have happened in the world about religion,
whether niceties in doctrines, or fchemes of church-go-
vernment, they were all perfectly useless to us, as, for
ought I can yet fee, they have been to all the reft of the
world. We had the fure guide to Heaven, viz. the
word of God ; and we had, blefled be God, comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by his word, leading us into all truth, and making
us both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
. word. And I cannot fee the leaft ufe that the greateft
knowledge of'the difputed points in religion, which
have made fuch confusions in the world, would have
been to us, if we could have obtained it. But I muft go
en with the hiftorical part of things, and take every
part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could underftand almoft all I faid
to him, and fpeak pretty fluently, though in broken
English, tome, I acquainted him with my own hif-
tory, or at leaft fo much of it as related to my coming
into this place ; how I had lived there, and how long;
I let him into the mystery, for fuch it was to him, of
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to moot.
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully de-
lighted with; and I made him a belt, with a frog hang-
ing to it, fuch as in England we wear hangers in; and
in the frog, inftead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet;
which was not only as good a weapon, in fome cafes,
but much more ufeful, upon other occafions.
I de-
I defcribed i
England, whi
worfhipped G
how we trade, gave him an ac
board of, and f
where fte Jay;
an<l gone.
1 he wed hirr
UPo,1,
anc
lkec°metopla
Plainedit,
count,
was
*>« t,
*' <*
„ "' ™«ch 1,
tn
I defcribed to him the country of Europe, particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we
worfhipped God, how we behaved to one another, and
how we traded in mips to all parts of the world. I
gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on
board of, and mewed him, as near as I could, the place
where me lay; but me was all beaten in pieces before,
and gone.
I mewed him the ruins of our boat, which we loft
when we efcaped, and which I could not ftir with my
whole strength then; but was now fallen almoft all to
pieces. Upon feeing this boat, Friday flood mufing a
great while, and faid nothing. I asked him what it
was he ftudied upon? at laft fays he, Me fee fuch boat
like come to place at my nation.
I did not understand him a good while: but, at left, when I had examined farther into it, I underftood by
him, that a boat, fuch as that had been, came on more
upon the country where he lived; that is, as he ex-
plained it, was driven thither by ftrefs of weather. I
prefently imagined, that fome European fhip muft have
been caft-away upon their coaft, and the boat might get
loose, and drive ashore ; but was fo dull, that I never
once thought of men making their efcape from a wreck
thither, much lefs whence they might come: fo I only
enquired after a defcription of the boat.
Friday defcribed the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with fome warmth, We fave the white mans from
drown. Then I prefently afked him, if there were any
white mans, as he called them, in the boat? Yes, he
faid; the boat full white mans. I asked him how many?
He told upon his fingers feventeen? I asked him, then,
what
ADVENTURES OF
what became of them? He told me, they live, they
dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head; for I prefently
imagined, that thefe might be the men belonging to the
ship that was caft-away in the fight of my i'fland, as I
now called it; and who, after the ship was ftruck on the
rock, and they faw her inevitably loft, had faved them-
felves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
fhore among the favages.
Upon this, I enquired of him more critically, what
was become of them: he affiired me they lived ftill
there; that they had been there about four years; that
the favages let them alone, and gave them victuals to
live on. I asked him, how it came to pafs they did
not kill them, and eat them? He faid, No, they make
brother with them; that is, as I understood him, a
truce; and then he added, They no eat mans but when
make the war fight; that is to fay, they never eat any
men but fuch as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this fome confiderable time, that being
upon the top of the hill, at the eaft fide of the ifland,
from whence, as I have faid, I had, in a clear day,
difcovered the main or continent of America, Friday,
the weather being very ferene, looks very earnestly to-
wards the main land, and, in a kind of furprife, falls
a jumping and da*ncing, and calls out to me, for I was
at fome diftance from him; I afked him what was
the matter? O joy! fays he, O glad! there fee my
country, there my nation! I obferved an extraordinary
fenfe of pleafure appeared in his face, and his eyes
fparkled, and his countenance difcovered a ftrange
eagernefs, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again;
again; and th
thoughts into
about my nc\
made no doub
own nation ag;
ligion, but all
mad enough t<
e, and comeb
and rnak
IK as merry as ]
wh<nthey were
ncr
befoi
the
ab0ut if
both as a
and
again; and this obfervation of mine put a great many
thoughts into me, which made me at firft not fo eafy
about my new man Friday as I was before; and I
made no doubt, but that if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not only forget all his re-
ligion, but all his obligation to me, and would be for-
ward enough to give his countrymen an account of
me, and come back perhaps with an hundred or two of
them, and make a feaft upon me, at which he might
be as merry as he ufed to be with thofe of his enemies,
when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honeft creature very much,
for which I was very forry afterwards. However, as
my jealoufy increafed, and held me fome weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not fo familiar and kind
to him as before: in which I was certainly in the
wrong too; the' honeft, grateful creature having no
thought about it, but what confifted with the beft prin-
ciples, both as a religious Chriftian, and as a grateful
friend; as appeared afterwards, to my full fatisfaction.
While my jealoufy of him lafted, you may be fure I
was every day pumping him, to fee if he would ditto.. ver any of the new thoughts which I fufpefted were in
him: but I found every thing he faid was fo honeft
and fo innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my fufpicion; and, in fpite of all my uneafinefs, he
made me at laft entirely his own again; nor did he, in
the leaft, perceive that I was uneafy, and therefore I
could not fufpeft him of deceit.
One day, walking up the fame hill, but the weather
being hazy at fea, fo that we could not fee the con-
tinent, I called to him, and faid, Friday, do not you
with yourself in your own country, your own-nation?
Yes,
5
RC
fes, he faid, I be much O glad to be at my own nation.
What would you do there? faid I: Would you turn
vild again, eat mens flesh again, and be a favage, as
roll were before? He looked full of concern, and fhak-
ng his head, faid, No, no; Friday tell them to live
;ood, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
>read, cattle-flefh, milk; no eat. man again. Why
hen, faid I to him, they will kill you. He looked
;rave at that, and then faid, No, no; they no kill me,
hey willing love learn. He meant by this, they would
>e willing to learn: he added, They learned much of
he bearded-mans that came in the boat. Then I afked
lim if he would go back to them? He fmiled at that,
nd told me that he could not fwim fo far. I told him,
would make a canoe for him. He told me, he would
;o, if I would go with him. I go! fays I; why they
will eat me, if I come there. No, no, fays he; me
nake they no eat you; me make they much love you.
ie meant he would tell them how I had killed his ene-
nies, and faved his life, and fo he would make them
ove me. Then he told me, as well as he could, how
rind they were to feventeen white men, or bearded
nen, as he called them, who came on shore there in
liftrefs.
From this time I confefs I had a mind to venture
iver, and fee if I could possibly join with thofe bearded
nen; who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Por-
uguefe; not doubting, but if I could, we might find
some method to efcape from thence, being upon the
ontinent, and a good company together, better than
could from an ifland forty miles off the more, and
lone, without help. So, after fome days, I took Fri-
:ay to work again, by way of difcourfe; and told him
I would
I would give him
and accordingly
on the other fide
water (for I alwa<
"out, fhewed i\
found he was a 3
and would make i
we go to you
the.bo*t00frnall
e
thetvater.
J.
I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation;
and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay
•on the other fide of the ifland, and having cleared it of
water (for I always kept it funk in the water) I brought
it out, shewed it him, and we both went into it. I
found he was a moft dexterous fellow at managing it,
and would make it go almoft as fwift again as I could:
fo when he was in, I faid to him, Well now, Friday,
shall we go.to your nation? He looked very dull at my
faying fo; which, it feems, was, becaufe he thought
the boat too small to go fo far: I told him then, I had
a bigger; fo the next day I went to the place where the
first boat lay which I had made, but which I could not
get into the water. He faid that was big enough; but
then as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two
or three and twenty years there, the fun had fplit and
dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told
me fuch a boat would do very well, and would carry
much enough vittle, drink, bread: that was his way
of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time fo fixed upon
my defign of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him,, we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He anfwered not
one word, but looked very grave and fad; I asked him, what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
thus, Why you angry mad with Friday? What me
done? I asked him what he meant? I told him I was
not angry with him at all. No angry! No angry! fays
. he, repeating the words feveral times; Why fend Fri-
day home away to my nation? Why, fays I, Friday,
did not you fay, you wifhed you were there? Yes, yes,
fays he, with be both there; no wish Friday there, no
matter
272
ADVENTURES OF
mailer there. In a word, he would not think of going
there without me. I go there, Friday! fays I; what
shall I do there ?. He returned very quick upon me at
this: You do great deal much good, fajs he; you teach
wild mans be good, fober, tame mans; you tell them
know God, pray God, and live new life. Alas! Fri-
day, fays I, thou knoweft not what thou fayeft; I am
but an ignorant man myfelf. Yes, yes, fays he, you
teachee me good, you teachee them good. No, no,
Friday, fays 1, you shall go without me; leave me here
to live by myfelf, as I did before. He looked con-
fufed again at that word; and running to one of the
hatchets which he ufed to wear, he takes it up hastily,' and gives it to me. What muft I do with this? fays I
to him. You take kill Friday, fays he. What muft I
kill you for? faid I again. He returns very quick,
What you fend Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no
fend Friday away. This he fpoke fo earneftly, that I
faw tears stand in his eyes: in a word, I fo plainly dif-
covered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm
icfolution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never fend him away from me, if
he was willing to ftay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his difcourfe a
fettled affection to me, and that nothing would part
him from me, fo I found all the foundation of his de-
fire to go to his own country, was laid in his,ardent
affeftion to the people, and his hopes of my doing them
good; a thing, which as I had no notion of myfelf, fo
I had not the leaft thought, or intention, or defire of
undertaking it. But ft ill I found a ftrong inclination
to my attempting an efcape, as above, founded on the
supposition gathered from the difcourfe, viz. that there
were
Were fevcnteen 1
out any more de
out a great tree
r'agua or canoe,
too enough in tl
of P«riaguas or c
but the main thin
the w«er, that w.
to «oid the
the
a;
*e
ng:
.
ve1
were seventeen bearded men there: and therefore, with-
out any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large pe-
riagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were
trees enough in the illand to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas or canoes, but even of good large vessels ;
but the main thing I looked at, was to get one fo near
the water, that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at fire. At left, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
knew much better than I, what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call
the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the
tree we call fuftic, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the fame colour and fmell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this
tree out, to make it for a boat; but I the wed him how
rather to cut it out with tools; which, after I had
mewed him how to ufe, he did very handily; and in
about a month's hard labour, we finifhed it, and made
it very handfome; especially when, with our axes,
which I mewed him, how to handle, we cut and hewed
the outfide into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it coft us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into
the water. But when she was in, she would have car-
ried twenty men with great eafe.
When fhe was in the water, and though she was fo
big, it amazed me to fee with what dexterity, and how
fwift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along; fo I asked him if he would, and if
we might venture over in her? Yes, he faid; he ven-
ture over in her very well, though great blow wind.
VOL. I. T However,
ADVENTURES OF
However, I had a farther design, that he knew nothing
of, and that was to make a mast and a fail, and to fit
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mail, that was
eafy enough to get; fo I pitched upon a ftraight young cedar tree, which I found near the place, and which
there were great plenty of in the ifland; and I fet Friday
to work to cut it down, and gave him direftions how to
shape and order it. But as to the fail, that was my par-
ticular care. I knew I had old fails, or rather pieces
of old fails enough; but as I had had them now fix and
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to
preferve them, not imagining that I would ever have
this kind of ufe for them, I did not doubt but they
were all rotten, and indeed, moft of them were fo:
however, I found two pieces, which appeared pretty
good; and with thefe I went to work; and with a great
deal of pains and aukward Hitching, you may be fure,
for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered,
ugly thing, like what we call in England, a shoulder of mutton-fail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short fprit at the top, fuch as ufually our fhips
long-boats fail with, and fuch as I beft knew how to
manage, becaufe it was fuch an one as I had to the boat
in which I made my efcape from Barbary, as related in
the first part of my story. I was near two months performing this laft work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mail and fails; for I finished them very complete, making a fmall ftay, and a fail or
fore-fail to it, to affift, if we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the
ftern of her, to beer with ; and though I was but a
bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the ufefulnefs, and
even necessity of fuch a thing, I applied myfelf with
fo
ft touch pains
^gb, confic
for it that fail
After all this
what
for though he i
the
fb much pains to do it, that at raft I brought it to pass'; though, confidering the many dull contrivances I had
for it that failed, I think it colt me almoft as much
labour as making the boat. i
After all this was done, too, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe,
he knew nothing what belonged to a fail and a rudder;
and was the most amazed, when he faw me work the
boat to and again in the fea by the rudder, and how the
fail gibbed, and filled this way, or that way, as the
courfe we failed changed; I fay, when he faw this, he
flood like one aftonilhed and amazed. However,
with a little ufe, I made all thefe things familiar to
him; and he became an expert failor, except that as to
the compafs, I could make him understand very little
of that. On the other hand, as there was very little
cloudy weather, and feldom or never any fogs in thofe
parts, there was the lefs occafion for a compafs, feeing
the flats were always to be feen by night, and the more
by day, except in the rainy feafons, and then nobody
cared to ftir abroad, either by land or fea.
I was now entered on the feven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three lads years, that I had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the account, my habitation being quite
of another kind than in all the reft of the time. I kept
the anniverfary of my landing here with the fame thanks fulnefs to God for his mercies, as at first : and if I had
such caufe of acknowledgement at firft, I had much
more fo now, having fuch additional testimonies of the
care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had
of being effectually and fpeedily delivered; for I had
T z an
an invincible impression upon my thoughts, that my
deliverance was at hand, and that I fhould not be an-
other year in this place; however, I went on with my
husbandry; digging, planting, and fencing as ufual; I
gathered and cured my grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy feafon was, in the mean time, upon
me, when I kept more within-doors than at other
times: fo we had flowed our new vessel as fecure as we
could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and
hauling her up to the more, at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in: and then, when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam acrofs the end of it, to keep the
water out; and fo fhe lay dry, as to the tide from the
fea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many
boughs of trees, fo thick, that she was as well thatched
as a houfe: and thus we waited for the months of No-
vember and December, in which I defigned to make
my adventure.
When the fettled feafon began to come in, as the
thought of my defign returned with the fair weather, I
was preparing daily for the voyage: and the firft thing
I did, was to lay by a certain quantity of provifions,
being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a
week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was bufy one morning upon
fomething of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the fea-fhore, and fee if he could find a
turtle or tortoife, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the fake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. 
Friday
Friday had not been long gone, when he came run-
ning back, and flew over my outer-wall, or fence, like
one that felt not the ground, or the steps he fet his feet
on; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out
to me, O master ! O mafter! O forrow! O bad !—
What's the matter, Friday? fays I: O yonder, there,
fays he, one,, two, three canoe; one, two, three. By
this way of speaking, I concluded there were fix; but,
on enquiry, I found it was but three. Well, Friday,
fays I, do not be frightened; fo I heartened him up,
as well as I could: however, I faw the poor fellow was
moft terribly feared; for nothing ran in his head, but
that they were come to look for him, and would cut
him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trem-
bled fo, that I fcarce knew what to do with him. I
comforted him as well as I could; and told him, I was
in as much danger as he; and that they would eat me
as well as him: but, fays I, Friday, we mail refolve
to fight them: Can you fight, Friday? Me fhoot, fays
he; but there come many great number. No matter
for that, faid I, again; our guns will fright them that
we do not kill. So I afked him, whether, if I refolved
to defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me,
and do just as I bid him? He faid, Me die, when you bid die, mafter. So I went and fetched a good dram
of rum, and gave him; for I had been fo good a half- band of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When
he drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and loaded them with large
fwan-fiiot, as big as small piftol-bullets. then I took,
four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
T 3 brace
brace of bullets each: I hung my great fword, as ufual,
naked by my fide, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myfelf, I took my per-
fpeftive-glafs, and went up to the fide of the hill, to
fee what I could difcover; and I found quickly, by my
glafs, that there were one and twenty favages, three pri-
foners, and three canoes; and that their whole bufi-
nefs feemed to be the triumphant banquet upon thefe
three human bodies; a barbarous feaft indeed ! but
nothing more than, as I had obferved, was ufual with
them.
I obferved alfo, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his efcape, but nearer
to my creek; where the more was low, and where a
thick wood came clofe, almoft down to the fca. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand thefe
wretches came about, filled me with fuch indignation,
that I came down again to Friday, and told him, I was
refolved to go down to them, and kill them all; and
afked him, if he would ftand by me? He was now got-
ten over his fright, and his fpirits being a little raifed
with the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful,
and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took firft and divided the
arms which I had charged, as before, between us: I
gave Friday one pistol to Rick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his moulder;'and I took one piftol, and the
other three guns myfelf; and in this pofture we march-
ed out. I took a fmall bottle of rum in my pocket,
and gave Friday a large bag, with more powder and
bullet; and, as to orders, I charged him to keep clofe
behind me, and not to ftir, or shoot, or do any thing,
till I bid him; and, in the mean time, not to fpeak a
word,
S'
R(
word. In thi:
right-hand, of
creek, as to ge
within shot of
which, I had fa
While I was a returning, I beg
mean, that I ent,
"S they were nak
was fuperior to t
B« « occurred
cafion, much le]
dlp my hands i
neitl*rdc.ne, or
*e:We« i
eiown
on
that
word. In this pofture I fetched a compafs to my
right-hand, of near a mile, as well to get over the
creek, as to get into the wood, fo that I might come
within shot of them before I fhould be difcovered;
which, I had feen by my glafs, it was eafy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my refolution: I do not
mean, that I entertained any fear of their number; for,
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was fuperior to them; nay, though I had been alone.
But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what oc-
cafion, much lefs what neceffity I was in, to go and
dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
neither done, or intended me any wrong? Who, as to
me, were innocent; and whofe barbarous cuftoms were
their own difafter: being, in them, a token indeed of
God's having left them, with the other nations of that
part of the world, to fuch ftupidity, and to fuch in-
human courfes; but did not call me to take upon me
to be a judge of their aftions, much lefs an executioner
of his juftice: that, whenever he thought fit, he would
take the caufe into his own hands, and by national
vengeance, punish them, as a people, for national
crimes; but that, in the mean time, it was none of
my bufinefs: that, it was true, Friday might justify it,
becaufe he was a declared enemy, and in a Rate of war
with thofe very particular people, and it was lawful for
him to attack them; but I could not fay the fame with
refpeft to myfelf. Thefe things were fo warmly pref- fed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I re-
folved I would only go and place myfelf near them,
that I might obferve their barbarous feast, and that I
would aft then as God should direct : but that, unlefs
T 4 fomething
»8o
ADVENTURES OF
fomething offered that was more a call to me than yet
I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this refolution I entered the wood; and, with
all poffible warinefs and filence, Friday following clofe
at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the
wood, on the fide which was next to them, only that
one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called foftly to* Friday, and mewing him a great
tree, which was juft at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could fee
there plainly what they were a-doing: he did fo; and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there: that they were all about their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prifoners; and that
another lay bound upon the fand, a little from them;
which, he faid, they would kill next, and which fired
all the very foul within me. He told me, it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded men, whom
he had told me of, that came to their country in the
boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming the
white-bearded man; and going to the tree, I faw plain-
ly, by my glafs, a white man, who lay upon the beach
of the fea, with his hands and his feet tied with flags,
or things like rushes ; and that he was an European,
-and had cloaths on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was; which, by going a little way about, I
faW I might come at undifcovered, and that then I
should be within half a mot of them: fo I withheld
my paffion, though I was indeed enraged to the high-
eft degree, and going back about twenty paces, I got
behind fome bufhes, which held all the way till I came
to
RO
to the other ti
ground, which
distance of aboi
I had now not
dreadful wretchesdied together, at dier the poor Cl
bJ limb, to their
"Mie the bands a
Fri<ky,faidl,do
Thfn, Friday, i
fai1 in nothing
the'"
th
ey
y
P Prefc
riday? f
to the other tree; and then came to a little rifing
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the
distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches fat upon the ground, all clofe hud-
dled together, and had just fent the other two to but-
cher the p'oor Chriftian, and bring him, perhaps, limb
by limb, to their fire; and they were ftooping down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday ;—Now,
Friday, faid I, do as I bid thee. Friday faid he would:
Then, Friday, fays I, do exactly as you fee me do;
fail in nothing. So I fet down one of the mufkets and
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim
at the favages, bidding him to do the like; then asking him if he was ready, he faid, yes: then fire at them,
faid I;—and the fame moment I fired alfo.
Friday took his aim fo much better than I, that on
the fide that he met, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my fide, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be fure, in
a dreadful confirmation, and all of them who were not
hurt, jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look; for
they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes clofe upon me, that, as I had bid
him, he might obferve what I did; fo, as foon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took
up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he faw
me cock and prefent; he did the fame again :—Are you
ready, Friday? faid I; Yes, fays he: Let fly then,
fays I, in the name of God! and with that; Ifired
again among the amazed wretches, and fo did Friday;
and
ADVENTURES OF
and as our pieces were now loaded with what I called
Franchot, or fmall piflol-bullets, we found only two
drop, but fo many were wounded, that they ran about
yelling and fcreaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and miferably wounded mail of them, whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, fays I, (laying down the difcharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaden)
follow me; which he did, with a great deal of courage;
•upon which I rushed out of the wood, and fhewed my-
self, and Friday clofe at my foot. As foon as I per-
ceived they faw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and
bade Friday do fo too; and running as faft as I could,
which, by the way, was not very fast, being loaded
with arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor
viftim, who was, as I faid, lying upon the beach or
fhore, between the place where they fat and the fea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at the furprize of our firft fire, and
fled in a terrible fright. to the fea-fide, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more of the reft made the fame
way. I turned to Friday, and bad him flep forwards,
and fire at them; he underftood me immediately, and
running about forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for I
faw them all fall of a-heap into the boat, though I faw
two of them up again quickly: however he killed two
of them, and wounded the third fo, that he lay down
in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim ;
and loofing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and
asked him, in the Fortuguefc tongue, What he was?
Hs
He anfwered i
and faint, that
my bottle out <
%ns that he fh
him a piece of I
^at countrym
Jn4 being a fit %as he could p
debt for his deli
as I coi
bu' we must figl
Uke this piftol
took them very
armsi*his har
'Mo him, he fl,
hld cu< two o
tmth «. as ^
Ur
r th
OSt; f<
'
Pieces,'
-ncu
than t
tl
-
He anfwered in Latin, Chriftianus; but was fo weak
and faint, that he could fcarce ftand or fpeak. I took
my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making
figns that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him
what countryman he was? and he faid, Efpagniole;
and being a little recovered, let me know, by all the
figns he could pofTibly make, how much he was in my
debt for his deliverance: Seignior, faid 1, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, we will talk afterwards,
but we muft fight now: if you have any ftrength left,
take this piftol and fword, and lay about you. He
took them very thankfully; and no fooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and
had cut two of them in pieces in an instant: for the
truth is, as the whole was a furprize to them, fo the
poor creatures were fo much frightened with the noife
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own
efcape, than their flesh had to vefift our fhot: and that
was the cafe of thofe five that Friday fhot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they re-
ceived, fo the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand ftill without firing, being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given
the Spaniard my piftol and fword: fo I called' to Fri-
day, and bad him run up to the tree from whence we
firft fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged; which he did with great fwiftnefs:
and then giving him my musket, I fet down myfelf to
Joad all the reds again, and bade them come to me when
they
ADVENTURES OF
they wanted. While I was loading thefe pieces, there
happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and
one of the favages, who made at him with one of their'
great wooden fwords, the fame-like weapon that was
to' have killed him before, if I had not prevented it.
The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be
imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head;
but the savage being a flout, lusty fellow, clofing in
with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and
was wringing my fword out of his hand; when the
Spaniard, though undermoft, wifely quitting the fword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot thefavage through
the body, and killed him upon the fpot, before 1, who
was running to help him, could come near him,
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the fly-
ing wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hat-
chet; and with that he difpatched thofe three, who, as
I faid before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and all
the reft he could come up with: and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gon, I gave him one of the fowl-
ing-pieces, with which he purfued two of the favages,
and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to
j»n, they both got from him into the wood, where
Friday p\irfoed them, and killed one of them, but the
other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged himfelf into the fea> and
fwam, with'all his might, off to thofe two who were
left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no,
were all that efcaped our hands of one and twenty; the
account of the whole is as follows:
3 Killed
3 Killed a
2Killed a
2 Killed I
2 Killed fc
i Killed b
3 Killed b
4 Killed, |
their wo
of them.
4 Efcaped
n°t dead.
21 In all.
J"*' at
rida
an
would ft
Y; .
Ida
one
_
==
fo
g Killed at our firft (hot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot. *
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto of thofe at firft wounded.
I Killed by ditto in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropped here and there of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chafe
of them.
4 Efcaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead.
21 In all.
Thofe that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gunshot, and though Friday made two or three
shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of their ca-
noes, and purfue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their efcape, left carrying the news home to their
people, they should come back perhaps with two or
three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere
multitude: fo I confented to pursue them by fea; and
running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade
Friday follow me: but when I was in the canoe, I was
furprized to find another poor creature lie there, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what the mat-
ter was: for he had not been able to look up over the
fide of the boat, he was tied fo hard ne.ck and heels, and
had been tied fo long, that he had really but little life in
him.
I immediately cut the twifted flags or fumes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up;
ADVENTURES OF
T
up; but he could not ftand or fpeak, but groaned moft
piteoufly; believing, it feems, ftill, that he was only
unbound in order to be killed. When Friday came to
him, I bade him fpeak to him, and tell him of his de-
liverance; and pulling out my bottle, made him give
the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his
being delivered, revived him, and he fat up in the boat.
But when Friday came to hear him fpeak, and look in
his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
feen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
cried, laughed, hollaed, jumped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face
and head; and then fung, and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I
could make him fpeak to me, or tell me what was the
matter; but when he came a little to himfelf, he told
me that it was his father.
It is not eafy for me to exprefs how it moved me to
fee what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor favage at the fight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor indeed can I defcribe half
the extravagancies of his affection after this; for he
went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many
times: when he went into him, he would fit down by
him, open his breaft, and hold his father's head clofe to
his bofom for many minutes together, tonourifhit;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed
and ftiffwith the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands: and I, perceiving what the cafe was,
gave him fome rum out of my bottle, to rub them with;
which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our purfuit of the canoe,
with the other favages, who were now gotten almoft
out
out of fight; an
for it blew fo hi
they could be g<
tinued blowing
north-weft, whi
%ofe their bo,
their own coaft.
But to return
fa*er, that I cou
for fame tirne: 1
I called
and p
, 'if h;
head;
df: fo I gave hi
out of fight; and it was happy for us that we did not,
for it blew fo hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con-
tinued blowing fo hard all night, and that'from the
north-weft, which was againft them, that I could not
fuppofe their boat could live, or that they ever reached
their own coast. But to return to Friday; he was fo bufy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him off
for fome time: but after I thought he could leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing and pleafed to the higheft extreme; then I
afked him, 'if he had given his father any bread? He
shook his head and faid, none; ugly dog eat all up
felf: fo I gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch
I carried on purpose; I alfo gave him a dram for him-
felf, but he would not tafte it, but carried it to his
father; I had in my pocket alfo two or three bunches
ofraifins, fo I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no fooner given his father thefe rai-
fins, but I faw him come out of the boat, and run
away, as if he had been bewitched,'he run at fuch a
rate; for he was the fwifteft fellow of his feet that ever
I faw; I fay, he run at fuch a rate, that he was out of
fight, as it were, in an inftant; and though I called
and hollaed too, after him, it was all one, away he
went; and in a quarter of an hour, I faw him come
back again, though not fo faft as he went; and as he
came nearer, I found his pace was flacker, becaufe he
had fomething in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring his father fome
fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves
288
ADVENTURES OF
loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the water he
carried to his father: however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little fup of it. The water revived his
father more than all the rum or fpirits I had given him;
for he was juft fainting with thirft.
When his father had drank, I called to him to know
if there was any water left: he faid yes; and I bade him
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want of it as his father; and I fent one of the cakes that
Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
very weak, and was repofing himfelf upon a green place
under the shade of a tree; and whofe limbs were alfo
very stiff, and very much fwelled with the rude ban-
dage he had been tied with. When I faw that upon
Friday's coming to him with the water, he fat up and
drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went
to him, and gave him a handful of raifins: he looked
up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulriefs that could appear in any countenance)
but was fo weak, notwithftanding he had fo exerted
himfelf in the fight, that he could not Rand up upon
his feet: he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were fo fwelled and fo pain-
ful to him; fo I bad him fit Rill, and caufed Friday to
rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had
done his father's.
I obferved the poor affe&ionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps lefs, all the while he was here,
turned his head about, to fee if his father was in the
fame place and pofture as he left him fitting; and at
laft he found he was not to be feen: at which he started up, and without fpeaking a word, flew with that swift nefs to him, that one could fcaree perceive his feet to
touch
touch the groom only found he h;
ft Friday came b
to the Spaniard to
ani lead him to tt
'o our dwelling,
Friday, a lufly, f
"P upon his back
and&t him down
Qtl°e, with his f{
mS him quite in
P*di
italongt
the wind b
> tl"is away to
Wmd, for fure
S
Wenttohel
n
Pour
remedythi
were
out:
r
to
touch the ground as he went: but When heca me, he
only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe his limbs:
fo Friday came back to me prefently; and then I fpoke
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he fhould carry him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him: but
Friday, a lofty, ftrong fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and fet him down foftly upon the fide of gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the infide of it; and then lift-
ing him quite in, he fet him close to his father; and
prefently ftepping out again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore fafter than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard too: fo he brought
them both fafe into our creek; and leaving them in the
boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he paired me, I fpoke to him, and afked him whither he went?
He told me, go fetch more boat: fo away he went like
the wind, for fure never man or horfe run like him;
and he had the other canoe in the creek almoft as foon
as I got to it by land; fo he wafted me over, and then
went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he
did; but they were neither of them able to walk; fo
that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday, to bid them fit down on the bank
while he came to me, I foon made a kind of a hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
both up together upon it, between us. But when we'
got them to the outside of our wall or fortification, we
were at a worfe lofs than before, for it was impoffible
to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it
down: fo I fet to work again; and Friday and I, ia
• VOL. I. U about
about two hours time, made a very handfome tent,
covered with old fails, and above that, with boughs of
trees, being in the fpace without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted; and here we made them two beds of
fuch things as I had, viz, of good rice-ftraw, with
blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to caver
them, on each bed.
My ifland was now peopled, and I thought myfelf
very rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a King I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property; fo that I had an undoubted right of domi-
nion. Secondly, My people were perfeftly fubjefted:
I was abfolute lord and law-giver: they all owed their
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if
there had been occafion for it, for me. It was re-
markable too, I had but three subjects, and they were
of three different religions. My man Friday was a
Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and
the Spaniard was a Papift: however, I allowed liberty
of confcience throughout my dominions:—But this is
by the way.
As soon as I had fecured my two weak, refcued pri-
foners, and given them shelter, and a place to reft them
upon, I began to think of making fome provision for
them: and the firft thing I did, I ordered Friday to
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a 'goat, out of
my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into fmall pieces, I fet
Friday to work to boiling and ftewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth; hav-
ing put fome barley and rice alfo into the broth : and,
as
3s I cooked it
in my inner
and having fet
eat my own d
«uld, cheered
being my interp
dec<i to the Spa langMgeofthe]
After we hai
Friday to take o
ra"fes and oth
wehad left upon
ord«edhimtog
VaS«. which hy
kofcnfive. anc
re"*ins of
; nay, j c
- all .
; all Wn
Place.
ed, .
as I cooked it without-doors, for I made no fire with-
in my inner-wall, fo I carried it all into the new tent;
and having fet a table there for them, 1 fat down, and
eat my own dinner alfo with them; and, as well as I
could, cheered them, and encouraged them: Friday
being my interpreter, efpecially to his father, and in-
deed to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard fpoke the
language of the favages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather fupped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our
mufkets and other fire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle: and, the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the fa-
vages, which lay open to the fun, and would prefently
be offensive ; and I alfo ordered him to bury the horrid
remains of their barbarous feaft, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing
myfelf; nay, I could not bear to fee them, if I went
that way; all which he punctually performed, and de-
faced the very appearance of the favages being there:
fo that when I went again, I could scarce know where
it was, otherwife than by the corner of the wood point-
ing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little converfation with
my two new subjects : and firft, I fet Friday to en-
quire of his father, what he thought of the efcape of the
favages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a
return of them, with a power too great for us to refift?
His first opinion was, that the favages in the boat never
could live out the florin, which blew that night they
wentoff; but muft, of neceffity, be drowned, or driven
fouth to thofe other ihores, where they were as fure
to be devoured, as they were to be drowned, if they'
T a were
ADVENTURES OF
were caft-away: but, as to what they would do, if they
came fafe on fhore, he faid, he knew not; but it was
his opinion, that they were fo dreadfully frightened
with the manner of their being attacked, the noife,
and the fire, that he believed they would tell the peo-
ple, they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not
by the hand of man; and, that the two which appear-
ed, viz. Friday and I, were two heavenly fpirits, or
furies, come down to deftroy them, and not men with
weapons. This, he faid, he knew; becaufe he heard
them all cry out fo, in their language, to one another;
for it was impoffible for them to conceive, that a.man
could dart fire, and fpeak thunder, and kill at a dif-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done ,now:
and this old favage was in the right; for, as I under-
stood fince, by other hands, the favages never attempt-
ed to go over to the ifland afterwards; they were fo ter-
lified with the accounts given by thofe four men, (for,
it feems, they did efcape the fea) that they believed
whoever went to that enchanted island, would be de-
ftroyed with fire from the Gods.
This, however, I knew not; and therefore was
•under continual apprehenfions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, with all my army; for,
as there were now four of us, I would have ventured
•upon an hundred of them, fairly in the open field, at
any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off; and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con-
fideration,; being likewife affured, by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good ufage from their na-
lion, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts
were
were a little 1
with the Spai
werefixteen r
who, having I
that fide, lived
but were very
for life. Iafkc
"nd found the\
loading th
and to bring I
ffle« with there
°n board, when five of the'
%was lofti°a
ar»d ha
everv
he

were a little fufpended, when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I underftood, that there
were fixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguefe;
who, having been caft-away, and made their efcape to
that fide, lived there at peace, indeed, with the favages,
but were very fore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I afked him all the particulars of their voyage,
and found they were a Spanish fhip, bound from the
Rio de la Plata to the Havana, being directed to leave
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and filver,
and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there: that they had five Portuguefe seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck; that
five of their own men were drowned, when first the
fhip was loft, and that thefe efcaped through infinite
dangers and hazards, and arrived, almoft ftarved, on
the cannibal coaft, where they expected to have been
devoured every moment. He told me, they had fome
arms with them, but they were perfectly ufelefs, for
that they had neither powder or ball, the warning of
the fea having spoiled all their powder, but a little,
which they ufed at their firft landing, to provide them-
felves fome food. .
I asked him, what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no defign of making any
efcape? He faid, they had many confultations about
it; but that having neither vessel, or tools to build one,
or provifions of any kind, their councils always ended
in tears and defpair.
I afked him, how he thought they would receive a
propofal from me, which might tend towards an efcape;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be
done? I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their
U 3 treachery
L..
RC
ADVENTURES OF
treachery and ill ufage of me, if I put my life in their
hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in
the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, fo much
as they did by the advantages they expected. I told
him it would be very hard that I would be the inflru-
tnent of their deliverance, and that they would after-
wards make me their prifoner in New Spain, where an
Englishman was certain to be made a facrifice, what
neceffity, or what accident foever brought him thither;
and that I had rather be delivered up to the favages,
and be devoured alive, than fall into the mercilefs
claws of the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was perfuaded, if they were
all here, we might, with fo many hands, build a bark
large enough to carry us all away, either to the Brafils,
fouthward, or to the iflands, or Spanish coast, north-
ward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I
had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force
among their own people, I might be ill ufed for my
kindnefs to them, and make my cafe worfe than it was
before.
He anfwered with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuoufnefs, that their condition was fo miferable, and
that they were fo fenfible of it, that, he believed, they
would abhor the thought of ufing any man unkindly,
that would contribute to their deliverance; and that,
if I pleafed, he would go to them with the old man,
and difcourfe with them about it, and return again,
and bring me their anfwer: that he would make corj-
ditions with them, upon their folemn oath, that they
should be abfolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should fwear upon
the
the holy facrame
go to fuch Chrif
and no other; ar
ty my orders,
country as I intei
traa from them,
Then he told me
that he would n.
ti!1 I gave him or
op0]
«»ft breach of fai
«e, they were aU
ere under t
weapons
and difcret
ver Burn
T
me.
h
that
the holy facraments and gofpel, to be true to me, and
go to fuch Christian country as that I should agree to,
and no other; and to be directed wholly and abfolutely
by my orders, till they were landed fafely in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a con-
traft from them, under their hands, for that purpofe.
Then he told me, he would firft fwear to me himfelf,
that he would never ftir from me as long as he lived,
till I gave him orders; and that he would take my fide
to the laft drop of his blood, if there fhould happen the
leaft breach of faith among his countrymen. He told
me, they were all of them very civil, honeft men, and
they were under the greatest diftrefs imaginable, having
neither weapons or cloaths, nor any food but at the
mercy and difcretion of the favages; out of all hopes of
ever returning to their own country; and that he was
fure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon thefe affurances, I refolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if poffible, and to fend the old favage and
this Spaniard over to them, to treat. But when we had
gotten all things in readinefs to go, the Spaniard him-
felf ftarted an objection, which had.fo much prudence
in it, on one hand, and fo much fincerity, on the
other hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at leaft half a.year. The cafe was thus:
He had been with us now about a month, during
which time I had let him fee in what manner I had
provided, with the affiftance of Providence, for my
fupport; and he faw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had laid up; which though it was more than
U 4 fufficient
RO
ADVENTURES OF
fufficient for myfelf, yet it was not sufficient, without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was encreafed
to number four; but much lefs would it be fufficient,
if his countrymen, who were, as he faid, fixteen ftill
alive, should come over; and leaft of all, would it be
fufficient to victual our veflel, if we fhould build one,
for a voyage to any of the Chriftian colonies of Ame-
rica: fo he told me, he thought it would be more ad-
vifable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate
fome more land, as much as I could fpare feed to fow,
and that we should wait another harvest ; that we
might have a fupply of corn for his countrymen, when
they should come; for want might be a temptation to
them to difagree, or not to think themselves delivered,
otherwife than out of one difficulty into another. You
know, fays he, the children of Ifrael, though they re-
joiced at firft, for their being delivered out of Egypt,
yet rebelled even against God himfelf, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wildernefs.
His caution was fo feafonable, and his advice fo
good, that I could not but be very well pleafed with his
proposal, as well as I was fatisfied with his fidelity: fo
we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnifhed with permitted; and in about
a month's time, by the end of which it was feed-time,
we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up, as
we fowed two and twenty bufhels of barley on, and
fixteen jars of rice; which was, in fhort, all the feed
we had to fpare: nor indeed, did we leave ourfelves
barley sufficient for our own food, for the fix months
that we had to expect our crop; that is to fay, reckon-
ing from the time we fet our feed afide for fowing:
for it is not to
ground in that c
Having now
fufficient to put
had come, unlc
we went freely a
occafion; and a;
upon our thoug
to have the mean
1 marked out fei
. and I fet
; and then
my
ains I had hew
them tc
five
k:
Imagine. 1OI

"
our turns
for it is not to be fuppofed, it is fix months in the
ground in that country.
Having now fociety enough, and our number being
fufficient to put us out of fear of the favages, if they
had come, unlefs their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the ifland, whenever we found
occafion; and as here we had our efcape or deliverance
upon our thoughts, it was impoffible, at leaft for me,
to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpofe,
I marked out feveral trees which I thought fit for our
work, and I a Friday and his father to cutting them
down; and then I caufed the Spaniard, to whom I im-
parted my thought on that affair, to overfee and direct their work: I mewed them with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into fingle planks, and
I caufed them to do the like, till they had made about
a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty five feet long, and from two inches to four inches
thick: what prodigious labour it took up, any one may
imagine. . ..
At the fame time I contrived to increafe my little
ftock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpofe, I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myfelf with Friday the next day, for we took
our turns; and by this means we got about twenty
young kids, to breed up with the reft; for whenever
we shot the dam, .we faved the kids, and added them
to our flock. But, above all, the feafon for curing the
grapes coming on, I caufed fuch a prodigious quantity
to be hung up in the fun, that I believe, had we been
at Alicant, where the raifins of the fun are cured, we
could have filled fixty or eighty barrels: and thefe, with
4?ur bread, was a great part of our food, and was very good
ADVENTURES OF
good living too, I affure you; for it is an exceeding
nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it
was not the moft plentiful increafe I had feen in the
island, but however, it was enough to anfwer our end;
for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in
and threfhed out above two hundred and twenty bufhels;
and the like in proportion of the rice; which was store enough for our food to the next barveft, though all
the fixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or
if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very
plentifully have viftualled our fhip, to have carried us
to any part of the world, that is to fay, of America.
When we had thus houfed and fecured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-ware,
viz. great bafkets, in which we kept it; and the Spa-
niard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and
often blamed me that I did not make fome things for
defence of this kind of work ; but I faw no need of it.
And now having a full fupply of food for all the
guefts.I expefted, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over
to the main, to fee what he could do with thofe he had
left behind him there. I gave him a ftrift charge not
to bring any man with him who would not first fwear,
in the prefence of himself and the old favage, that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the perfon
he would find in the island, who was fo kind as to fend
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
would ftand by him, and defend him againft all fuch
attempts; and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and fubjefted to his command; and that this
fhould be put in writing, and figned with their hands.
How they were to have done this, when I knew they
had
RO
had neither pen
alked.
Under thefe i
favage, the fathi
anoes, which t
were brought in,
voured by the fa, with a firelock c
<fer and ball, chair of both, and not
was a cl
feven years and f
^ and of d
for many. days,
eight days
'ftance, before t
of(
ecover it a
had neither pen or ink, was a queftibn which we never
asked. Under thefe inftruftions, the Spaniard and the old
favage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes, which they might be faid to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be de-
voured by the favages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of pow-
der and ball, charging them to be very good hufbands
of both, and not to ufe either of them but upon urgent
occafion.
This was a cheerful work, being the first meafures
used by me in view of my deliverance, for now, twenty-
feven years and fome days. I gave them provisions of
bread, and of dried grapes, fufficient for themfelves
for many days, and fufficient for all the Spaniards for
about eight days time; and wishing them a good voy-
age, I faw them,go, agreeing with them about a fig-
nal they should hang out at their return, by which I
fhould know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore. They went away
with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at full, by
my account, in the month of October; but as for an ex-
aft reckoning of days, after I had once loft it, I could
never recover it again; nor had I kept even the number
of years fo punftually, as to be fure I was right; though,
as it proved, when I afterwards examined my account,
I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no lefs than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in hiftory.
J was fail afleep in my hutch one morning, when my
man Friday came runningin to me, and called aloud,
Mafter
3oo
RG
ADVENTURES OF
Master, master, they are come, they are come. I jump, ed up, and regardlefs of danger, I went out as foon
as I could get my cloaths on, through my little grove,
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood; I fay, regardlefs of danger, I went with-
out my arms, which was not my cuftom to do.: but I
was furprized, when, turning my eyes to the fea, I pre-
fently law a boat at about a league and a half's distance, Handing in for the more, with a moulder of mutton
fail, as they call it, and the wind blowing,pretty fair
to bring them in; alfo I obferved prefently, that they
did not come from that fide which the fhore lay on,
but from the fouthermoft end of the ifland: upon this,
I called Friday in, and bade him lie clofe, for thefe
were not the people we looked for, and that we might
pot know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective- glafs, to ice what I could make of them: and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as I ufed to do, when I was apprehenfive of any
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being
difcovered. I had fcarce fet my foot upon the hill,
when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an
anchor, at about two leagues and an half's distance from me, S. S. E. but not above a league and an half
from the fhore. By my observation, it appeared plainly
to be an Englifh fhip, and the boat appeared to be an
Englifh long-boat. '-
I cannot exprefs the confufion I was in; though the
joy of feeing a fhip, and one that I had reafon to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and con jfequently friends, was fuch as I cannot defcribe; but
yet I had fome fecret doubts hung about me, I cannot
tell
tell from whenc
my guard. In t
iider what bufin<
part of the world
any part of the vi
to; and I kne
in there,;
really, it
no good d<
aslwas, than f
derers.
d<
which fc
ere is no ,
hlntsand notices
*"*
difco
not
not
or 01» good?
Jheprefent
ftlce
fec
b
f
'
tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon
my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to con-
fider what bufinefs an Englilh fhip could have in that
part of the world, fince it was not the way to or from
any part of the world where the Englifh had any traf-
fick; and I knew there had been no ftorms to drive
them in there, as in diftrefs; and that if they were
Englifh really, it was moft probable that they were 'here
upon no good defign; and that I had better continue
as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and mur-
derers. .
Let no man defpife the fecret hints and notices of
danger, which fometimes are given him when he may
think there is no poffibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have
made any obfervations of things can deny; that they
are certain difcoveries of an invifible world, and a
converfe of fpirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them feems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not fuppofe they are from fome friendly
friendly agent, ;(whether fupreme, or inferior and fub-
ordinate, is not the queftion) and that they are given
for our good? <
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
juftice of. this reafoning; for had I not been made cau-
tious by this fecret admonition, come it from whence
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worfe
condition than before, as you will fee prefently. I had
not kept myfelf long in this pofture, but I faw the boat
draw near the fhore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not
fee the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts;
but
302
ADVENTURES OF
but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about
half a mile from me, which was very happy for me;
for otherwife they would have landed just, as I may fay,
at my door, and would foon have beaten me out of my
caftle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully fatisfied they
were Englifhmen, at leaft moft of them; one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove fo: there
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found
were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when
the first four or five of them were jumped on fhore,
they took thofe three out of the boat, as prisoners: one
of the three I could perceive ufing the moft paffionate
gestures of entreaty, affliction and despair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two I could perceive
lifted up their hands fometimes, and appeared concerned
indeed, but not to fuch a degree as the first. I was
perfectly confounded at the fight, and knew not what
the meaning of it fhquld be. Friday called out to me
in English, as well as he could, O mafter! you fee
English mans eat prifoner as well as favage mans.
Why, fays I, Friday, do you think they are a going
to eat them then? Yes, fays Friday, they will eat
them. No, no, fays I, Friday; I am afraid they will
murder them, indeed, but you may be fure they will
not eat them.
All this while, I had no thought of what the matter
really was; but flood trembling with the horror of the
fight, expecting every moment when the three prifoners
should be killed; nay, once I faw one of the villains
lift up his arm with a great cutlafs, as the feamen call
it, or sword, to fhike one of the poor men; and I ex-
pcfted
Itof
blood in rr
I wished that was gc
come under have refcuei
had among
way.
After I in men by the
run fcatterin
the country:
liberty to go;
a11 three upo
time when I,
M:how I j
looked round
by v
As I knew
t0re«ivebyt
the land, by
^heenfo
'Soordefc

an
thetn'andhov
Weto d
epend
pefted to fee him fall every moment; at which all the
blood in my body feemed to run chill in my veins.
I wifhed heartily now for my Spaniard and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have
come undifcovered within fhot of them, that I might
have refcued the three men, for I faw no fire-arms they
had among them; but it fell out to my mind another
way.
After I had obferved the outrageous ufage of the three
men by the infolent feamen, I obferved the fellows
run fcattering about the ifland, as if they wanted to fee
the country: I obferved that the three other men had
liberty to go alfo where they pleafed; but they fat down
all three upon the ground, very penfive, and looked
like men in defpair. This put me in mind of the firft
time when I came on shore and began to look about
me: how I gave myfelf over for loft; how wildly I
looked round me; what dreadful apprelienfions I had;
and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the fupply I was
to receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer
the land, by the ftonns and tide, by which I have
fince been fo long nourifhed and fupported; fo thefe
three poor defolate men knew nothing how certain of
deliverance and fupply they were, how near it was to-
'them, and how effeftually and really they were in a
condition of fafety, at the fame time that they thought
themselves loft, and their cafe delperate. So little do
we fee before us in the world, and fo much reafon have
we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the
world, that he does not leave his creatures fq abfolutely
destitute, but that, in the worst circumftances, they have
always
364 ADVENTURES of always fomething to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine ; nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they feem to be brought to their deftruftion.
It was juft at the top of high-water when thefe people
came on fhore; and partly while they rambled about to
fee what kind of a place they were in, they had carelefsly
Raid till the tide was fpent, and the water was ebbed
confiderably away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep ; however one of them waking a little fooner
than the other, and finding the boat too faft aground
for him to ftir it, hollaed for the rest, who were ftrag-
gling about; upon which they all foon came to the
boat: but it was paft all their ftrength to launch her,
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that fide
being a foft oozy fand, almoft like a quicksand. In
this condition, like true feamen, who are perhaps the
leaft, of all mankind, given to forethought, they gave
it over, and away they ftrolled about the country again;
and I heard one of them fay aloud to another, calling
them off from the boat, Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't you? fhe'll float next tide: by which I was fully
confirmed in the main enquiry, of what countrymen
they were. All this while I kept myfelf very clofe, not
once daring to ftir out of my castle, any farther than
to my place of obfervation, near the top of the hill; and
very glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I
. knew it was no lefs than ten hours before the boat could
float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to fee their motions, and to
hear their difcourfe, if they had any. In the mean
lime, I fit\
with more
kind of en
alfb, whom
gun, to loa
fowling-piet
figure indeei
goat-ftin cos,
a naked fwor
a gun upon e
It was my
any attempt t
te<ngthehea
were all gone
""""girt, laid t
mm, too anxi
W:r«. however
at about
outo
Solved to fljf
inS of their c
as above
as ft
g quite*
hmd
near t
tf°reJnyoftl
le
may
*
time, I fitted myfelf up for a battle, as before, though
With more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday
also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his
gun, to load himfelf with arms. I took myfelf two
fowling-pieces, and I gave him three mufkets: my
figure indeed was very fierce; I had my formidable
goat-fkin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned,
a naked fword by my fide, two piftols in my belt, and
a gun upon each fhoulder.
It was my design, as I faid above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark: but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that, in fhort, they
were all gone flraggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to fleep. The three poor diftreffed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any fleep,
were, however, fat down under the fhelter of a great
tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of fight of any of the reft. Upon this I
refolved to fh'fcover myfelf to them, and learn forms .
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good diftance be-
hind me, as formidable for, his arms as I, but not
making quite fo flaring a fpe£tre-!ike figure as I did.
I came as near them undifcovered as I could, and then,
before any of them faw me, I.called aloud to them in
Spanish, What are ye, gentlemen? They started up at
the noife, but were ten times more confounded when
they faw me, and the uncouth figure that I made.
They made no anfwer at all, but I thought I perceived
them juft going to fly from me, when I fpoke to them
in Englifb* Gentlemen, faid I, do not be Curprized at me,
perhaps you may have a friend near, when you did not
VoL. L X expect
expect it. He muft be fent direftly from heaven then>
faid one of them, very gravely to me, and pulling off his
hat at the fame time to me, for our condition is paft
the help of man. All help is from heaven, Sir, faid I:
But can you put a ftranger in the way how to help
you? for you feem to be in fome great diftrefs. I faw
you when you landed; and when you feemed to make
application to the brutes that came with you, I faw one
of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned,
Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or *n
angel? Be in no fear about that, Sir, faid I; if God
had fent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better cloathed, and armed after another manner than
you fee me: pray lay afide your fears; I am a man, an
Englishman, and difpofed to affift you; you fee I have
one fervant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell
us freely, can we ferve you t—What is your cafe?
Our cafe, faid he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers arefo near us: but in short, Sir, I was
commander of that ship, my men have mutinied againft
hie; they have been hardly prevailed on not to mur-
der me; and at laft have fet me on shore in this defo-
late place, with thefe two men with me, one my mate,
the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, be-
lieving the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet
what to think of it.
Where are thefe brutes, your enemies, faid I; do you
know where they are gone? There they lie, Sir, said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart trembles
for fear they have feen us, and heard youfpeak; if they
have, they will certainly murder us all, Have they any
fire-arms? i
pieces, one
&M I, leave
isaneafy th
TAKE them pr
Per«e villains
fond all the
hi"i which the
dc«inanyth:
°s r«reat out o
311<1
will re
with me, ,
Lookyou,Si
are
lire!edatidc°»
theflliPwasnot;
mwhatpartc
^the, t
5-s
i:;-«
Pl"jUdi«tom
^tittomsof
fire-
ftin
fire-arms? faid I. He anfwered, they had only two pieces, one of which they left in the boat. Well then,
faid I, leave the reft to me; I fee they are all afleep, it
is an eafy thing to kill them all: but shall we rather
take them prifoners? He told me there were two def-
perate villains among them, that it was fcarce fafe to
fhew any mercy to; but if they were fecured, he be-
lieved all the reft would return to their duty. I afked
him which they were? He told me he could hot at that
diftance diftinguifh them, but he would obey my or-
ders in any thing I would direct. Well, fays I, let
us retreat out of their view of hearing, lest they awake,
and we will refolve further: So they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them. Look you, Sir, faid I, if I venture upon your de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions with
me? He anticipated my propofals, by telling me, that
both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly
directed and commanded by me in every thing; and, if
the ship was hot recovered, he would live and die with me in what part of the world foever I would fend him;
and the two other men faid the fame. Well, fays I,
my conditions are but two; r. That while you ftay in this ifland with me, you will not pretend to any autho-
rity here; and if I put arms in your hands, you will,
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no
prejudice to me or mine upon this island ; and, in the
meantime, be governed by my orders. 2. That if the
flap is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and my
man to England paflage free.
He gave me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of man could devife, that he would comply with
thefe most reafonable demands; and befides would owe
X 2 his
ADVENTURES OF
his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. Well then, faid I, here are three
mufkets for you, with powder and ball: tell me next
what you think is proper to be done. He mewed all
the teftimonies of his gratitude that he was able, but
offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought
it was hard venturing any thing; but the beft method I
could think of, was to fire upon them at once, as they
lay, and if any was not killed at the firft volley, and
offered to fubmit, we might fave them, and fo put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the fhot. ,
He faid very modeftly, that he1 was loth to kill them,
if he could help it; but that thofe two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the fhip, and if they efcaped, we would be undone still ;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's company, and deflroy us all. Well then, fays I, ne-
ceffity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to
fave our lives. However, feeing him ftill cautious of
fhedding blood, I told him they should go themfelves,
and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this difcourfe we heard fome of them
awake, and foon after we fawtwo of them on their feet.
I asked him if either of them were the heads of the mu-
tiny? He faid, no. Well then, faid I, you may let
them efcape; and Providence feems to have awakened
them on purpofe to fave themfelves: Now, lays I, if
the reft efcape you, it is your fault. Animated with
this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand,
and a piftol in his belt, and his two comrades with him,
with each a piece in -his hand: the two men who were
with him, going firft, made fome noife, at which one
of the seamen who was awake, turned about, and fee-
ing
ing them c
late then, f
mean the tv,
piece. The
they -knew, i
the other ver
up on
other; buttl
too late to cry
S've his villa
dorm with tl
and one of tli
timelwascor
thatitwasnM
caPta'n told tl
woul<lgivehin
'rea*erythey,
be faithful to ,
^ carry]
tliev <.,_ '_

of their _U|[,
^StobelbTti
y thec
ing them coming, cried out to the raft ; but it was too
late then, for the moment he cried out, they fired, I
mean the two men, the captain wifely refervinghis own
piece. They had fo well aimed their shot at the mea
they knew, that one of them was killed on the fpot, and
the other very much wounded; but not being dead, he
started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the
other; but the captain flepping to him, told him it was
too late to cry for help, he fhould call upon God to for-
give his villainy; and with that word knocked him
down with the Rock of his mufket, fo that he never
spoke more: there were three more in the company,
and one of them was alfo slightly wounded. By this
time I was come ; and when they faw their danger, and
that it was in vain to refift, they begged for mercy. The
captain told them, he would fpare their lives, if they
would give him any affurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to
be faithful to him in recovering the fhip, and after-
wards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence
they came. They gave him all the proteftations of
• of their fincerity that could be defired, and he was will-
ing to believe them, and fpare their lives, which I was
not against, only that I obliged him to keep them bound
hand and foot while they were on the ifland.
While this was doing, I fent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to fecure her, and
bring away the oars and fails, which they did: and by
and by, three ftraggling men, that were (happily for
them) parted from the reft, came back upon hearing
the guns fired, and feeing the captain, who before was
their prifoner, now their conqueror, they fubmitted to
be bound also; and fo our victory was complete,
X3 Ir
It now remained that the captain and I would en- quire into one another's circumftances: I began fire, and told him my whole hiftory, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement; and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnifhed with pro- vifions and ammunition: and indeed, as my ftory is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply,
But when he reflected from thence upon himfelf, and
how I feemed to have been preferved there on purpofe
to fave his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not fpeak a word more. After this communica-
tion was at an end, I carried him and his two men into
my apartment, leading them in just where I came out,
viz. at the top of the houfe, where I refrefhed them
with fuch provisions as I had, and shewed them all the
contrivances I had made, during my long, long inha^
biting that place.
All I fhewed them, all I faid to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the"captain admired my forti-
fication, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little wood, and fo thick,
that it was impaflable in any part of it, but at that one
fide where I had reserved my little winding passage into
it. I told him this was my caftle and my refidence, but
that I had a feat in the country, as moft princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occafion, and I would mew
him that too, another time; but at prefent our bufinefs
was to confider how to recover the flap. He agreed
with me as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a
lofs what measures to take, for that there were ftill fix
and twenty hands on board, who having entered into. 9
curfed
curfed confpirai
lives to the law's operation, and ^
were reduced, t
as soon as they %lifh colonies n° attacking the
I mused for fc
found it was a v<
f°re, something to draw the me
%"«, as to p
Sngus. Upc
m a, little while,
bcconie of their c
tainlycomeonfh
and"»tthenpei
him,
carryl
her f^
e wen
""•
We
curfed confpiracy, by which they had all forfeited their
lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by def-
peration, and would carry it on, knowing that if they
were reduced, they would be brought to the gallows,
as foon as they came to England, or to any of the
English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be
no attacking them with fo fmall a number as we were.
I mufed for fome time upon what he had faid, and
found it was a very rational conclufion, and that, there-
fore, fomething was to be refolved on fpeedily, as well
to draw the men on board into fome fnare for their
furprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
ftroying us. Upon this it prefently occurred to me, that
in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on more in their other boat, to fee for them;
and that then perhaps they might come armed, and be
tooftrong for us: this he allowed to be rational. Upon
this, I told him, the first thing we had to do was to
ftave the boat, which lay upon the beach, fo that they
might not carry her off; and taking every thing out of
her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be fit to swim : ac-
cordingly we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever elfe we found
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few bifcuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
lump of fugar in a piece of canvas; (the fugar was five
or fix pounds) all which was very welcome to me, efpe-
cially the brandy and fugar, of which I had none left
for many years.
When we had carried all thefe things on shore, (the
oars, mast, fail and rudder of the boat, were carried
away before, as above) we knocked a great hole in her
X 4 bottom, RO!
bottom, that if they had come ftrong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed it
was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to
recover the ship ; but my view was, that if they went
away without the boat, I did not much queftion to
make her fit again to carry us to the Leeward Iflands,
and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, in my way;
for I had them ftill in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our defigns, and had
first, by main ftrength, heaved the boat upon the beach
fo high, that the tide would not fleet her off at high-
water mark, and befides had broke a hole in her bot-
tom too big to be quickly flopped, and were fet down
mufing what we fhould do,—we heard the fhip fire a
gun, and faw her make a waft with her antient, as a fig-
nal for the boat to come on board; but no boat ftirred:
and they fired feveral times, making other fignals' for»
the boat. At laft, when all their fignals and firing
proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we faw them, by the help of my glafles, hoist another
boat out and row towards the shore ; and we found, as
they approached, that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almoft two leagues from the shore, we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
fight even of their faces; becaufe the tide having fet
them a little to the eaft of the other boat, they rowed
•up under more, to come to the fame place where the
other had landed, and where the boat lay. By this
means, I fay, we had a full view of them, and the cap-
tain knew the perfons and characters of all the men in
boat, of whom, he faid, that there-were three very ho nest, fellows, who, he was fare, were led into this con-
fpiracy
fpiracy by the ref
but that, as for t
chief officer amoi
as outrageous as
doubt made defpe
"% apprehenfii
powerful fo^us.
men in our circi
far; that feeing
was better than t
we ought to ex
de«horlife,wou
hitn what he the
^ whether a c
for? And where,
here 01
you a
*hat is that, there a
which 0
fpjracy by the reft, being overpowered and frightened:
but that, as for the boatfwain, who, it feems, was the
chief officer among them, and all the reds, they were
as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no
doubt made defperate in their new enterprize; and ter-
ribly apprehenfive he was that they would be too
powerful for us. J fmiled at him, and told him, that
men in our circumftances were paft the operation of
fear; that feeing almoft every condition that could be,
was better than that which we were fuppofed to be in,
we ought to expect: that the confequence, whether
death or life, would be fure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumftances of my life,
and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing
for? And where, Sir, faid I, is your belief of my being
preserved here on purpofe to fave your life, which ele-
vated you a little while ago? For my part, faid I, there
feems to me but one thing amifs in all the prospect of
it. What is that? fays he. Why, faid I, it is, that as
you fay, there are three Or four honeft fellows among
them, which would be fpared, had they been all of the
wicked part of the crew, I should have thought God's
providence had fingled them out to deliver them into
your hands; for, depend upon it, every man that comes
afhore are our own, and small die or live as they behave
to us. As I spoke this with a raifed voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; fo we
fet vigoroufly to our bufinefs.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the fhip, confidered of feparating our
prifoners, and we had indeed fecured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was lefs assured than ordinary, I fent with Friday, and one of the
three
three delivered men to my cave, where they were re-
mote enough, and out of danger of being heard or dif-
covered, or of finding their way out of the woods, if
they could have delivered themselves : here they left
them bound, but gave them provifions; and promifed
them, if they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted
their efcape, they should be put to death without mercy.
They promifed faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had fuch
good ufage, as to have provifions and light left them;
for Friday gave them candles (fuch as we made our*
felves) for their comfort: and they did not know but
that he flood fentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prifoners had better usage ; two of them
were kept pinioned indeed, becaufe the captain was not
free to trufl them; but the other two were taken into
my fervice, upon the captain's recommendation, and
upon their folemnly engaging to live and die with us:
fo with them and the three honeft men, we were feven
men well armed; and I made no doubt we should be
able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming,
considering that the captain had faid there were three
or four honeft men among them alfo. As foon as they
got to the place where their other boat lay, they run
their boat into the beach, and came all on fhore, haul, ing the boat up after them, which I was glad to fee;
for I was afraid they would rather have left the boat at
an anchor, fome diftance from the fhore, with fome
hands in her, to guard her; and fo we should not be
able to feize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing
they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was
eafy to fee they were under a great furprize to find
he?
ROB
Jier ftripped as abo
hole in her bottom
After they had i
two or three great
to "7 if they coul
all was to no pun ring, and fired a vc
deed, we heard, a,
but it was all one;
not hear, and theft ltwe1t enough, yet
told« afterwards,,
t0their%andlc
and the
board.
andfet
^

3
her ftripped as above, of all that was in her, and a great
hole in her bottom.
After they had mufed a while upon this, they fct up
two or three great shouts, hollaing with all their might,
to try if they could make their companions hear; but
all was to no purpofe: then they came all clofe in a
ring, and fired a volley of their fruall arms, which, in-
deed, we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring;
but it was all one; thofe in the cave we were fare could
not hear, and thofe in our keeping, though they heard
it well enough, yet durft give no anfwer to them. They
were fo aftonifhed at the furprize of this, that, as they
told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again
to their ship, and let them know, that the men were all
murdered, and the long-boat ftaved; accordingly they
immediately launched their boat again, and got all of
them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board the
ship again, and fet fail, giving their comrades for loft,
and fo he fhould ftill lofe the fhip, which he was in
hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly
as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with this new meafure in their conduct, which it feems they
confulted together upon, viz. to leave three men in
the boat, and the reft to go on shore, and go up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great
difappointmcnt to us; for now we were at a lofs what
to do: for our fe.izing thofe feven men on shore would
be no advantage to us, if we let the boat efcape; be-
they would then row away to the fhip, and then
the
the reft of them would be fare to weigh and fet fail;
and fo our recovering the fhip would be loft.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and fee
what the ifiue of things mightjprefent. The feven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the
boat, put her off to a good diftance from the more, and
came to an anchor to wait for them; fo that it was im-
possible for us to come at them in the boat. Thofe
that came on more, kept clofe together, marching to-
wards the top of the little hill under which my ha-
bitation lay; and we could fee them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, fo that we
•might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
farther off, that we might have come abroad. But
when they were come to the brow of the hill, where
they could fee a great way into the valleys and woods
which lay towards the north-eaft part, and where the
ifland lay lowest, they fhouted and hollaed, till they
were weary; and not caring, it feems, to venture far
from the fhore, nor far from one another,, they fat
down together under a tree, to confider of it. Had they
thought 'fit to have gone to fleep there, as the other
part of them had done, they had done the job for us;
but they were too full of apprehenfions of danger, to
venture to go to fleep, though they could not tell what
the danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made At very just propofal to me upon
this confutation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make their fel-
lows hear, and that we fhould all fally upon them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we should have
them
them with
vided it w;
np to then:
But this ev
time, very i
told them, ,
opinion, tijj
'he boat, pe1
Demand th;
r
a gre
removing; a;
confutations,
^wn toward "Pprehenfions
'hat they
Wended voya
As foon as ]
Im1agineditt
°Ver their fear,
the captain, a,
o« When Fr
I
them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal, pro-
vided it was done while we were near enough to come
tip to them, before they could load their pieces again.
. But this event did not happen; and we lay ftill a long
time, very irrefolute what courfe to take. At length I
told them, there would be nothing to be done, in my
opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return to-
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the fhore, and fo might ufe fome ftratagern
with them in the boat, to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very impatient for their
removing; and were very uneafy, when, after long
confutations, we faw them all start up, and march down towards the fea: it feems, they had fuch dreadful
apprehenfions upon them, of the danger of the place,
that they refolved to go on board the ship again, give
their companions over for loft, and fo go on with their
intended voyage with the ship. As foon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had given
over their fearch, and were for going back again; and
the captain, as foon as I told him my thoughts, was
ready to fink at the apprehenfions of it: but I present- ly thought of a ftratagem to fetch them back again, and
which anfwered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate, to go over the little creek weft-
ward, towards the place where the savages came on
fhore when Friday was refcued, and as foon as they
. came to a little rifing ground, at about half a mile
diftance, I bade them holla out, as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the feamen heard them: that
as foon as ever they heard the feamen anfwer them,
they should return it again; and then keeping out of
fight
8i8
ROBI
ADVENTURES O
fight, take a round, always answering when the other? hollaed, to draw them as far into the ifland and among
the woods as possible, and then wheel about again td
me, by fuch.ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hollaed; and they prefently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore weftward, towards the
voice they heard; when they were prefently flopped by
the creek, where,, the water being up, they could not
get over, and called for the boat to come up, and fet
them over; as indeed I expefted* When they had fet
themfelves over, I obferved, that the boat being gone
a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a har-
bour within the land, they took one of the three men
out of her, to go along with them, and left only two
in the boat, having fastened her to the flump of a little
tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their bufinefs, I
took the reft with me, and eroding the creek out of
their fight, we furprized the two men before they were
aware; one of them lying on the fhore, and the other
being in the boat. The fellow on shore was between
fleeping and waking, and going to ftartup; the cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knock-
ed him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very
few arguments to perfuade a fingle man to yield, when
he faw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked
down : befides, this was, it seems, one of the three who
were not fo hearty in the mutiny as the reft of the crew,
and therefore was eafily perfuaded not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very fincerely with us. In the
mean
meantime, Friday
naged their bufmef:
by hollaing and an
and from one wooc
tily tired them, b
fare they could not
kk; and indeed t
alfo, by the time it We had nothing
'"the dark, and to
B°* with them.
Il was feveral h,
before they came ba
"* f°remoft of th,
""l"gtothofebel
found it out, a I
I6" them call to
*"*• telling or
'
ay
mean time, Friday and the captain's mate fo well ma-
naged their bufinefs with the reft, that they drew them,
by hollaing and anfwering, from one hill to another,
and from one wood to another, till they not only hear-
tily tired them, but left them where, they were very
fure they could not reach back to the boat before it was
dark ;• and indeed they were heartily tired themselves alfo, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, fo as to make fare work with them.
It was feveral hours after Friday came back to me,
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear
the foremoft of them, long before they came quite up,
calling to thofe behind to come along; and could alfo
hear them anfwer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any fafter; which was
very welcome news to us. At length they came up to
the boat: but it is impoffible to exprefs their confufion,
when they found the boat faft aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could
hear them call to one another in a moft lamentable
manner, telling one another, they were gotten into an enchanted ifland; that either there were inhabitants in
it, and they should all, be murdered, or elfe there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried
away and devoured. They hollaed again, and called
their two comrades by their names a great many times;
but no anfwer. After fome time, we could fee them,
by the little light there was, run about, wringing their
hands like men in defpair; and that fometimes they
would go and fit down in the boat, to reft themfelves;
then come ashore again, and walk about again, and fo
the
ADVENTURES OF the fame thing over again. My men would fain have had me given them leave to fall upon them at once in
the dark; but I was willing to take them at fome ad-
vantage, fo to fpare them, and kill as few of them as I
could; and efpecially I was unwilling to hazard the
killing any of our men, knowing the others were very
well armed. I refolved to wait, to fee if they did not
feparate; and therefore, to make fure of them, I drew
my ambufcade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and feet, as clofe to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discover- ed, and get as near them as they could poffibly, before
they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that pofture, but that the
boatfwain, who was the. principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shown himfelf the moft dejeaed
and difpirited of all the reds, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew: the captain was fo
eager, at having this principal rogue fo much in his
power,^that he could hardly have patience to let him
come fo near as to be fure of him; for they only heard
his tongue before : but when they came nearer, the cap- tain and Friday, fhrting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatfwain was killed upon the fpot; the next
man was fhot into the body, and fell juft by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third run for it. At the noife of the fire, I imme-
I *
diately advanced with my whole army, which was now
eight men, viz. myfelf, generaliffimo; Friday, my lieu-
tenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prifoners of war, whom we had trufted.with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, fo that they
could not fee our number; and I made the man they
had
ROB
tad left in the boa'
them by name, to t
and fo might perha
Ol" juft as wedefa
"theircondition t,
to capitulate. So l
°« of them, Tom
1 immediate
ls> he knew h
^ for God's fak
arms and yield, or <
?° muft we yiclc
?meHerethCya
Jj11**^-

f
tQr
had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley,
and fo might perhaps reduce them to terms; which fell
out just as we defired: for indeed it was eafy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing
to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he could, to
one of them, Tom Smith, Tom Smith. Tom Smith
anfwered immediately, Who is that, Robinfon? For,
it feems, he knew his voice. The other anfwered, Aye,
aye; for God's fake, Tom Smith, throw down your
arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment.
Who muft we yield to? Where are they? fays Smith,
again. Here they are, fays he; here's our captain^ and
fifty men with him, have been hunting you thefe two
hours: the boatfwain is killed, Will. Fry is wounded,
and I am a prifoner; and if you do not yield, you are all loft. Will they give us quarter then, fays Torn
Smith, and we will yield? I will go alk, if you promise to yield, fays Robinfort: fo he asked the captain; and
the captain himfelf then calls out; You Smith, you
know my Voice; if you lay down your arms imme-
diately, and fubmit, you fhall have your lives, all but
Will. Atkins.
Upon this, Will. Atkins cried out, for God's fake,
captain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have been all as bad as I; which, by the way, was not
true neither: for, it feems, this Will. Atkins was the
first man that laid hold of the captain's, when they first mutinied, and ufed him barbarously, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurious language. However,
the captain told him he muft lay down his arms at dif-
cretion, and truft to the governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called, me governor. In a
VoL. I. Y . word,
ADVENTURES OF
word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I fent the man that had parlied with them,
and two more, who bound them all: and then my
great army of fifty men, which, particularly with thofe
three, were all but eight, came up and feized upon them
all, and upon their boat; only that I kept myfelf and
one more out of fight, for reafons of ftate.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
feizing the ship : and y for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expoftulated with them
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at
length upon the further wickednefs of their defign, and
how certainly it muft bring them to mifery anddiftrefs
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives. As for that, he told them, they were none
• of his prifoners, but the commander's of the ifland;
that they thought they had fet him on more in a bar-
ren, uninhabited ilTand; but it had pleafed God fo to
direct them, that the ifland was inhabited, and that the
governor was an Englishman ; that he might hang them
'all there, if he pleafed: but as he had given them all
quarter, he supposed he would fend them to England,
to be dealt with there as justice required, except At kins, whom he was commanded by the governor to ad-
vife to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged
in the morning.
Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it
had its defired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to
beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his
life; and all the reft begged of him, for God's fake,
that they might not be fluent to England.
It now occur
ance was come,
to bring thefe fi
fion of the ship that they might
H. and called l "gooddiftance,
"gain, and fay to
to calls for you
Tell his exceller
Pe*% amufed
c°mmander was
"Pain's coming
put it
folved to
words them,;
the others
veyed t
d ,

-' and tell
trufted0r !1 r
«^z:;
, It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a moft eafy thing
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting poffef-
fion of the flap ; fo I retired in the dark from them,
that they might riot fee what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at
a good diftance, one of the men was ordered to fpeak
again, and fay to the captain,—Captain, the comman-
der calls for you; and prefently the captain replied,—
Tell his excellency I am' juft a-coming. This more
perfectly amused them, and they all believed that the
commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon the
captain's coming to me, I told him my projeft forfeiz-
ing the fhip, which he liked Wonderfully well, and re-
folved to put it in execution the next morning. But
in order to execute it with more art, and to be fecure
of success, I told him we must divide the prifoners, and
that he fhould go and take Atkins, and two more of the
worft of them, and fend them pinioned to the cave
where the others lay. This was committed to Friday,
and the two men who came on more with the captain; They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prifon; and it
was indeed a dismal place, efpecially to men in their
condition; The other I ordered to my bower, as I
called it, of which I have given a full defcription; and
as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place Was
. fecure enough, confidering they were upon their beha-
viour.
To thefe in the morning I fent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try
them, and tell me whether he thought they might be
trusted or no to go on board and furprize the fhip. He
talked to them of the injury done him, of the condi-
Y 2 tion
ADVENTURES OF
tion they were brought to, and that though the gover-
nor had given them quarter for their lives, as to the
prefent action, yet that if they were fent to England,
they would all be hanged in chains to be fure ; but that
if they would join in fo juft an attempt as to recover
the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon-
Any one may guefs how readily fuch a propofal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they fell
down on their knees to the captain, and promifed, with
the deepeft imprecations, that they would be faithful to
him to the laft drop, and that they should owe their
lives to him, and would go with him all over the world;
that they would own him as a father to them as long
as they lived. Well, fays the captain, I muft go and
tell the governor what you fay, and fee what I can do
to bring him to confent to it. So he brought me an
account of the temper he found them in, and that he
verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very fecure, I told him
he fhould'go back again, and chufe out thofe five, and
tell them, that they might fee he did not want men,
that he would take out thofe five to be his affiftants,
and that the governor would keep the other two, and
the three that were fent prifoners to the caftle, (my
cave) as hoftages for the fidelity of thofe five; and that
if they proved unfaithful irvthe execution; the five hof-
tages mould be hanged in chains alive on the more.
This looked fevere, and convinced them that the go-
vernor was in earneft: however, they had no way left
them but to accept it; and it was now the bufinefs of
the prifoners, as much as of the captain, to perfuade
the other five to do their duty.
Our ftren
a. i. Th
the two pri
their charaft
kfty and tr
that I had ke
"ponthecapt
fi?e released a
ve we k
hands c
"»u Friday,;
ft|r> having fei
mei1t enough
tllem with vicl
folvedtokeep
dan°them,,
made'heothe,
lan«, where F
W!«n I fhe
Wlth4ecaptai
g°vernor had
7 the Cover,
Where but by
fW°UtWh
°that«wen,
h°r>fOU°^
'he governOM
**««*;,
to' Ptai"
?-«
***«2
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion, i. The captain, his mate and paflenger. 2. Then
the two prifoners of the first gang, to whom, having
their characters from the captain, I had given their li-
berty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two
that I had kept till now in my bower, pinioned; but
upon the captain's motion, had now releafed. 4. Thele
five releafed at laft; fo that they were twelve in all, be-
iides five we kept prifoners in the cave for hoftages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
thefe hands on board the fhip; for as for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to
ftir, having feven men left behind; and it was employ-
ment enough for us to keep them afunder, and fupply
them with viftuals. As to the five in the cave, I re- folved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a
day to them, to fupply them with necessaries ; and I
made the other two carry provifions to a. certain dis- tance, where Friday was to take it.
When I fhewed myfelf to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the perfon the
governor had ordered to look after them; and that it
was the governor's pleafure they should not stir any
where but by my direction ; that if they did, they
would be fetched into the caftle, and be laid in irons;
fo that as we never fuffered them to fee me as a gover-'
nor, fo I now appeared as another perfon, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the caftle, and the like, up-
pn all occasions. The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnifh his two boats, flop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenger captain of one,
with four other men; and himfelf, and his mate, and
Y 3 five
ADVENTURES OF
five more, went in the other: and they contrived their
bufinefs very well, for they came up to the flap about
midnight. As foon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinfon hail them, and tell them they
had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a,
long time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a chat till they came to the fhip'sfide:
when the captain and the mate entering first. with their
arms, immediately knocked down the fecond mate and
carpenter with the butt-end of their mufkets, being
very faithfully seconded by their men; they fecured all
the reft that were upon the main and quarter-decks,
and began to faften the hatches, to keep them down
that were below; when the other boat and their men
entering at the fore-chains, fecured the fore-caftle of
the fhip, and the fcuttle which went down into the
cook-room, making three men they found there pri-
foners. When this was done, and all fafe upon deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into the round-houfe, where the new rebel captain lay,
and having taken the alarm, had gotten up, and with
two men and a boy had gotten fire-arms in their hands;
and when the mate, with a crow, fplit open the door,
the new captain and his men fired boldly among them,
and wounded the mate with a mufket-ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate calling for help, rumed however
into the round-houfe, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through the head, the
bullet entering at his mouth, and cape out again be-
hind one of his ears, fo that he never fpoke a word
more: upon which the reft yielded, and the ship was.
taken effectually, without any more lives loft.
As foon as
dered feven
agreed upon i
which you m,
fat watching i
dock in the
plainly, I jaid
great fatigue to thing furprize<
flatting up, II
Teraor, Cover
voi<*; when c
k flood, andl
lisarms: Mr P, for
belong to
i for they
were mailers o
the pil
rafts,
ready to
As foon as the fhip was thus fecured, the captain or-
dered feven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give me notice of his fuccefs,
which you may be Cure I was very glad to hear, having
fat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the
clock in the morning. Having thus heard the fignal
Plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of
great fatigue to me, I flept very found, till I was some- thing furprized with the noife of a gun; and prefently
flatting up, I heard.a man call me by the name of Go-
vernor, Governor, and prefently I knew the captain's
voice; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he flood, and pointing to the fhip, he embraced me in
his arms: My dear friend and deliverer, fays he, there's
your ship, for she is all yours, and fo are we, and all
that belong to her. I caft my eyes to the fhip, and
there fhe rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore ; for they had weighed her anchor,as foon as they
were makers of her, and the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchorjuft against the mouth of the
little creek, and the tide being up, the captain had
brought the pinnace in near the*place where I at firft
landed my rafts, and fo landed juft at my door. I was
at firft ready to fink down with the forprize; for I faw
my deliverance indeed vifibly put into my hands, all
things eafy, and a large fhip juft ready to carry me away
whither I pleafed to go. At first, for fome time, I was
not able to anfwer him one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held faft by him, or I fhould have
fallen to the ground. He perceived the furprize, and
immediately pulls a bottle out of his pocket, and gave
me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on purpofe
forme. After I had drank it, I fat down upon the
Y4 ground; RC
ADVENTURES OF
ground; and though it brought me to myfelf, yet it
was a good while before I could fpeak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecftafy as
I, only not under any furprize, as I was ; and he faid
a thoufand kind, tender things to me, to compofe and
bring me to myfelf: but fuch was the flood of joy in
my breaft, that it put all my fpirits into confufion; at
laft it broke out into tears; and in a little while after
I recovered my fpeech: then I took my turn, and em-
braced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
I told him,, I looked upon him as a man fent from
heaven to deliver me, and that the whole tranfaflion
feemed to be a chain of wonders; that fuch things as
thefe were the teftimonies we had of a fecret hand of
Providence governing the world, and an evidence that
the eye of an infinite Power could fearch into the re-
moteft corner of the world, and fend help to the mifei>
able whenever he pleafed.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulnefs to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to blefs Him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for
me in fuch a wilderness, and in fuch a defolate con-
dition, but from whom every deliverance muft always
be acknowledged to proceed.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me fome little refreshment, fuch as the
ship afforded, and fuch as the wretches that had been fo
long his masters, had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor; and in-
deed it was a prefent, as if I had been one, not that was
to be carried away along with them, but as if I had been
ty dwell upon the ifland still, and they were to go with-
out
out me. First of excellent co
wine, (the host of excellent gt fhip'sbeef, am
and about a hui
me a box of fug
and two bottles thlngs: but bi
times more ufe
ft'rts, fix very
one pair of fro.
avcrygoodfuii
wora but very
head to foot.
as any one may
but "ever was
UnPl«fant, aul
t« thefe c
thlngs were br
gant°confuit,

venture.
Cl% two of t
out me. First, he had brought me a cafe of bottles full
of excellent cordial waters, fix large bottles of Madeira
wine, (the bottles held two quarts apiece) two pounds
of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and fix pieces of pork, with a bag of peafe,
and about a hundred-weight of bifcuit; he alfo brought
me a box of fugar, a box of flour, a bag-full of lemons,
and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of other
things: but befides thefe, and what was a thoufand
times more ufeful to me, he brought me fix new clean
fhirts, fix very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves,
one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with
a very good fuit of cloaths of his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he cloathed me from
head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable prefent,
as any one may imagine, to one in my circumftances;
but never was any thing in the world of that kind io
unpleafant, aukward and uneafy, as it was to me to
wear fuch cloaths, at their first putting on.
After thefe ceremonies past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we be-
gan to consult what was to be done with the prifoners
we had; for it was worth confidering, whether we
might venture to take them away with us or no, efpe-
cially two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the laft degree; and the captain faid,
he knew they were fuch rogues, that there was no ob-
liging them, and if he did carry them away, it muft be
in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to juftice
at the first English colony he could come at; and I
found that the captain himfelf was very anxious about
it. Upon this I told him, that if he defired it, I would
undertake to bring the two men he fpoke of, to make
it
ADVENTURES OF
it their own request that he would leave them upon the
island. I should be very glad of that, fays the captain,
with all my heart. Well, fays I, I will fend for them
•up, and talk with them for you; fo I caufed Friday
and the two hoftages, for they were now difcharged,
their comrades having performed their promife; I fay,
I caufed them to go to the cave, and bring up the five
men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After fome time, I came
thither dreiTed in my new habit; and now I was called
governor again. Being all met, and the captain with
me, I caufed the men to be brought before me, and I
told them, I had had a full account of their villainous
behaviour to the captain, and how they had run away
with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther
robberies, but that Providence had enfnared them in
•
their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit
which they had dug for others. I let them know, that
by my direction the ship had been feized, that me lay
now in the road; and they might fee, by and by, that
their new captain had received the reward of his vil-
lainy, for that they might fee him hanging at the yard-
arm: that, as to them, I wanted to know what they had
to fay, why I should not execute them as pirates, taken
in the faft, as by my commission they could not doubt
but I had authority fo to do.
One of them anfwered in the name of the reft, that
they had nothing to fay but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promifed them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them, I knew
not what mercy to mew them; for, as for myfelf, I
had refolved to'quit the ifland with all my men, and
had taken passage with the captain to go for England;
and
RC
and as for the
England other t
for mutiny, and
sequence of whi
the gallows; fo
them, unless th
island : if they <
liberty to leave
them their lives
fhore.
fecmed
much ra
carned to En el
Iflbe.
However, the
Dfit' as if he du
feeme<J a little •
fetthey were]
'J had offered t
g°od as my wo
"nfent to it, ]
then> ; and if i
he co

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Mt jmd as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England other than as prisoners, in irons, to be tried
for mutiny, and running away with the ship ; the con-
fequence of which, they muft needs know, would be
the gallows; fo that I could not tell what was beds for
them, unlefs they had a mind to take their fate in the
ifland: if they defired that, I did not care, as I had
liberty to leave it, I had fome inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could fhift on
more. They feemed very thankful for it, and faid they
would much rather venture to ftay there than to be
carried to England to be hanged: fo I left it on that
iffue.
However, the captain feemed to make fome difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I
feemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they were my prifoners, not his; and that feeing
'I had offered them fo much favour, I would be as
good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to
confent to it, I would fet them at liberty, as I found
them ; and if he did not like it, he might take them
again, if he could catch them. Upon this they ap-
peared very thankful, and I accordingly fet them at
liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the
place whence they came, and I would leave them fome
fire-arms, fome ammunition, and fome directions how
they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the fhip, but told the
captain I would flay that night to prepare my things,
and defired him to go on board in the mean time, and
keep all right in the ship, and fend the boat on more
day for me ; ordering him, in the mean time, to
caufe
83*
RC
ADVENTURES OF
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at
the yard-arm, that thefe men might fee him.
When the captain was gone, I lent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered ferioufly into dif-
course with them on their circumftances. I told them,
I thought they had made a right choice; that if the
captain had carried them away, they would certainly be
hanged: I mewed them the new captain hanging at the
yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had nothing
Jefs to expect. When they had all declared their willingnefs to ftay,
1 then told them I would let them into the glory of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
eafy to them: accordingly I gave them the whole his- tory of the place, and of my coming to it; shewed them my fortifications, the way I made my bread,
planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all
that was necessary to make them eafy. I told them the
story alfo of the feventeen Spaniards that were to be ex-
pefted, for whom I left a letter, and made them pro-
inifeto treat them in common with themfelves. Here
it may be noted, that the captain had ink on board,
who admired greatly that I never hit upon a way of
making ink of charcoal and water, or something else, as I had done things much harder.
I left them my fire-arms, viz. five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three fwords. I had above a bar-
rel and half of powder left; for after the first year or two
I used but little, and waited none. I gave them a de-
fcription of the way I managed the goats, and directions
to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheefe: in a word, I gave them every part of my own
fiery ; and told them I fhould prevail with the captain
tq
to leave them
fome garden-fi
been very glad
which the cap
them to be fun
Having doni
went on board
fail, but did no c»ty, two of t]
fa, and malt
°foer three, be
fake. for they captarn to take
immediately.
have no powe
aild after thei
were taken on
wh'Pped and
Son*
time
e* and c
17 verv th
tell">g them

f
t
106
and
to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and
some garden-feeds, which I told them I would have
been very glad of: alfo I gave them the bag of peafe
which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade
them to be fure to fow and increafe them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
fail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two of the five men came fwimming to the ship's fide, and making a moft lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's
fake, for they would be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, though he hanged them
immediately. Upon this, the captain pretended to
have no power without me; but after fome difficulty,
and after their folemn' promifes of amendment, they
were taken on board, and were fome time after foundly
whipped and pickled: after which they proved very
honeft and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on more,
the tide being up, with the things promifed to the men-;
to which the captain, at my interceffion, caufed their
chefts and cloaths to be added, which they took, and
were very thankful for. I alfo encouraged them, by
telling them, that if it lay in my power to fend any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this ifland, I carried on board
for reliques, the great goat-fkin cap I had made, my um-
brella, and one of my parrots; alfo I-forgot not to take
the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by
me fo long ufelefs, that it was grown rufty ortarnifhed,
and could hardly pafs for silver, till it had been a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the
wreck
R
ADVENTURES OF
wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I left theiflan^
the igth of December, as I found by the ship's account,
in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from this fecond captivity, the fame day of
the month that I firft made my efcape in the barco-
longo, from among the Moors of Sallee. In this veflel,
after a long voyage, I arrived in England, the eleventh
of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty and five
years abfent. 4
When I came to England, I was as perfect a ftranger
to all the world as if I had been never known there.
My benefactor and faithful Reward, whom I had left
my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
fecond time, and very low in the world. I made her
very eafy as to whatlhe owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulncfs to me, I relieved her
as my little flock would afford; which, at that time,
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
affured her, I would never forget her former kindnefs
to me; nor did I forget her when I had fufficient to
help her, as shall be obferved in its proper place. I
went down afterwards into Yorkshire ; but my father
was dead, and my mother,and all the family extinct, except that I found two fifters, and two pf the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision made
for me: fo that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve
or affift me; and that little money I had, would not do
much for me, as to fettling in the world.
I met
I met with
fid not expect:
hip whom I h:
means faved th
handfome acco
had faved the j Tiled me to mei
cerned, and all I compliment upon L fterling-
. But after mal
fences of my ]j
fettling
n, and fe<
tlonoftheftate
was beco,i
, had f0
viev
Apr
me Vei
'lng a m°
I came,
Partial
°f


I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the mafter of the
ship whom I had fo happily delivered, and by the fame
means faved the ship and cargo, having given a very
handsome account to the owners of the manner how I
had faved the lives of the men and the ship, they in-
vited me to meet them, and fome other merchants con •
cerned, and all together made me a very handfome com-
pliment upon the fubjeft, and a prefent of almoft aooL
But after making feveral refleftions upon the circum-
flances of my life, and how little way this would go to-
wards fettling me in the world, I - refolved to go to Lifbon, and fee if I might not come by fome informa-
tion of the Rate of my plantation in the Brafils, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reafon to
fuppofe, had fome years now given me over for dead.
With this view I took fhipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following; my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all thefe ramblings, and
proving a moft faithful fervant4 upon all occafions-
When I came to Lifbon, I found out, by enquiry, and
to my particular fatisfa&ion,. my old friend, the cap-
tain of the fhip who firft took me up at fea off the
fhore of Africk. He was now grown old, and had left
off going to fea, having put his fon, who was far from
a young man, into his fhip, and who Hill ufed the
Brafil trade. The old man did not know me, and in-
deed I hardly knew him; but I foon brought him to
my remembrance, and as foon brought myfelf to his
remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After fome paffionate expreffions of the old acquaint-
ance between us, I enquired, you may be fare, after
my
ADVENTURES OF
my plantation and my partner. The old man told me
he had not been in the Brafils for about nine years;
but that he could allure me, that when he came away,
my partner was living; but the trustees whom I had
joined with him, to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead: that however, he believed that I would have
a very good account of the improvement of the planta-
tion ; for that upon the general belief of my being caft-
away and drowned, my truftees had given in the ac-
count of the produce of my part of the plantation to
the procurator-fifcal, who had appropriated it, in cafe I
never came to claim it, one-third to the King, and two-
thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
pended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conver-
fion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I
appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance,
it would be reftored; only that the improvement, or
annual productions being distributed to charitable ufes,
could not be reftored; but he affured me, that the
fteward of the King's revenue from lands, and the
proviedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken
great care all along, that the incumbent, that is to fay
my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the
produce, of which they received duly my moiety. I
asked him, if he knew to what height of improvement
he had brought the plantation, and whether he thought
it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my
going thither, I fhould meet with no obftru&ion to my
pofleffing my juft right in the moiety? He told me, he
could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was
improved, but this he knew, that my partner was
grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the beds of his remembrance, he had
heard,
d, that the
ferns, granted
ous houfe, amo
J»: that as tc
of ", there was
partner being aj
tengalfo enrol]
he told me, that
,e
llev£d I would n
me m poffeffion
«* of money in
produ<*ofthef

heard, that the King's third of my part, which was, it
feems, granted away to fome other monaftery or religi-
ous house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a
year: that as to my being restored to a quiet pofleffion
of it, there was no question to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my title, and my name
being alfo enrolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survivors of my two trustees were
Very fair, honest people, and very wealthy, and he be-
lieved I would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession, but would find a very confiderable
fum of money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up as above; which, as he re-
member, was for about twelve years;
I fhewed myfelf a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and enquired of the old captain how it came? to pass that the trustees should thus difpofe of my ef-
fefts, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portuguefe captain, my univerfal
heir, &c.:
He told me, that was true; but that as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not aft as executor,
until fome certain account would come of my death;
and that besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with
a thing fo remote; that it was true, he had registered my will, and put in his claim, and could he have given
any account of my being dead or alive, he would have
aged by procuration, and taken pofleflion of the inge-
nio, (fo they called the fugar-houfe) and had given his
fon, who was now at the Brafils, orders to do it. But,
fays the old man, I have one piece of news to tell you,
which perhaps may not be fo acceptable to you as the
VoL, I. Z reft.
ADVENTURES OF
rely, and that is, believing you were loft, and all the
world believing fo alfo, your partner and trustees did
offer to account with me, in your name, for fix or eight
of the firft years profits, which I received. There being
at that time, fays he, great difburferrients for increafing
the works, building an ingenio, and buying flaves, it
did not amount to near fo much as afterwards it pro-
duced: however, fays the old man, I fhall give you a
true account of what I have received in all, and how I
have difpofed of it.
After a few days farther conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the firft fix years
income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
merchant-truftees, being always delivered in goods, viz.
tobacco in roll, and fugar in chefts, befides rum, melaf-
fes, &c. which is the confequence of a fugar-work; and
I found, by this account, that every year the income
confiderably increafed; but, as above, the difburfement
being large, the fum at firft was fmall: however, the
old man let me fee, that he was debtor to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, befides 60 chefts of fugar, and 15 double-
rolls of tobacco, which were loft in his ship ; he having
been shipwrecked coming home to Lifbon, about eleven
years after my leaving the place. The good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had
been obliged to make ufe of my money to recover his
loses, and buy him a fhare in a new fhip. However,
my old friend, fays he, you shall not want a fupply in
your necessity ; and as foon as my fon returns, you
shall be fully fatisfied. Upon this, he pulls out an old
pouch, and gives me 160 Portugal moidores in gold;
and giving the writings of his title to the fhip, which
his fon was gone to the Brafils in, of which he was a
quarter.
quarter-part
both into m
I was too
nefc of the p
numbering v
016 uP at fea,
"Uoccafions,
was now to m
hcha<lfaidto
"that timc> a
Lme' he could,
bot> however
morc'hanhe.
Every thing
Sndl could h:
*. I tool
quarter-part owner, and his fon another, he puts them
both into my hands, for fecurity of the reft.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
nefs of the poor man to be able to bear this; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had taken
me up at fea, and how generoufly he had ufed me on
all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what
he had faid to me; therefore, first I asked him if his
circumftances admitted him to fpare fo much money
at that time, and if it would not ftraiten him? He told
me, he could not fay but it might ftraiten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man faid was full of affection, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he fpoke;
in short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and call-
ed for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them;
then I returned him the reft, and told him, if ever I
had pofleffion of the plantation, I would return the
other to him alfo: (as indeed I afterwards did) and
that as to the bill of fale of his part in his fon's mip, I
would not take it, by any means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me;
and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me
reafon to expeft, I would never have a penny more
from him.
When this was paft, the old man began to afk me, if
he should put me into a method to make my claim to
my plantation? I told him, I thought to go over to it
myfelf. He faid, I might do fo, if I pleafed; but that
if I did not, there were ways enough to fecure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my ufe:
. Z 2 and
ADVENTURES OF
and as there were ships in the river of Lifbon, just ready
to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath,
'that I was alive, and that I was the fame person who
took up the land for the planting the faid plantation at
first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to fend it, with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then propofed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in lefs than seven months, I received a large packet from the furvivors of
my truftees, the merchants, for whofe account I went
to fea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclofed.
. • Firft, There was the account current of the produce
of my farm or plantation, from the year when their fa-
thers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being
for fix years; the balance appeared to be 1174 moidores
in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the
government claimed the adminiftration, as being the
effects of a perfon not to be found, which they called
civil death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increafing, amounted to 19,446 crufadoes,
being about 3,240 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of Auguftine's ac-
count, who had received the profits for above fourteen
years; but not being to account for what was difpofed
of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had 872
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to
c my
my account: as
thing.
There was a
roe very affeftio
an account how
produced a year
glares or acres
many flaves the
^ntycroflesfo
doeMarias \.Q ft
iavi»ng me Ver
Poffeffion of my Borders to w
ld not come mj
f h>* friendfhip
s

my account: as to the King's part, that refunded nor-
thing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affeftionately upon my being alive, giving me
an account how the eftate was improved, and what it
produced a year, with a particular of the number of
fquares or acres that it contained, how planted, how
many flaves there were upon it, and making two and
twenty crofTes for bleffings, told me he had laid fo many
Ave Marias to thank the bleffed Virgin that I was alive:
inviting me very paflionately to come over and take
pofleffion of my own; and in the mean time to give
him orders to whom he fhould deliver my effects, if I
did not come myfelf; concluding with a hearty tender
of his friendfhip, and that of his family; and fent me,
as a prefent, feven fine leopards (kins, which he had, it
seems, received from Africa, by fo me other ship that he
had fent thither, and who, it feems, had made a better
voyage than I: He fent me alfo five chefts of excellent
fweetmeats, and an hundred pieces of.gold uncoined,
not quite fo large as moidores.
By the fame fleet, my two merchant-truftees fhipped
me 1200 chefts of fugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the
reft of the whole account in gold.
I might well fay, -now indeed,- that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impoffible
to express the flutterings of my very heart, when I
found all my wealth about me; for as the Brafil fhips
come all in fleets, the fame ships which brought my
letters, brought my goods; and the effects were fafe in
the river before the letters came to my hand, In a
word, I turned pale and grew fick; and had not the
old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the
Z 3 fudden
ADVENTURES OF
fudden furprize of joy had overfet nature, and I had
died upon the fpot. Nay, after that, I continued very
ill, and was fo feme hours, till a phyfician being fent
for, and fomething of the real caufe of my illnefs being
known, he ordered me to be let blood; after which I
had relief, and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had
not been eafed by a vent given in that manner to the
spirits, I should have died. '.
I was now master, all on a fudden, of above five
thoufand pounds sterling in money, and had an eftate,
as I might well call it, in the Brafils, of above a thou-
fand pounds a-year, as fure as an estate of lands in
England: and, in a word, I was in a condition which
I fcarce knew how to underftand, or how to compofe
myfelf, for the enjoyment of it. The firft thing I did,
was to recompence my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my
diftrefs, kind to me in my beginning, and honed to
me at the end. I mewed him all that was fent to me,
I told him, that next to the providence of Heaven,
which difpofed all things, it was owing to him;
and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I
would do an hundred-fold: fo I firft returned to him
the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I
fent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general
releafe or difcharge for the 470 moidores, which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fulleft and firmest manner poffible ; after which I caufed a procuration to
be drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my
partner to account with him, and make the returns by
the ufual fleets to him in my name ; and a claufe in the
end, being a grant of 100 moidores a-year to him,
RO
during his life, o
y«r to his fon af
quited my old ma
I was now to c
n«t, and what t
had thus put int<
care upon my hea
and had r.c
hadnowagreatc
how to fecure it
meddle
I,
to
• At ft
*h0 kl
p . i. * «u

during
during his life, out of the effects ; and 50 moidores a-
year to his fon after him, for his life: and thus I re-
quited my old man.
I was now to confider which way to fteer my courfe
next, and what to do with the eftate that Providence
had thus put into my hands; and indeed I had more
care upon my head now, than I had in my filent state of life in the ifland, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I
had now a great charge upon me, and my bufinefs was
how to fecure it. I had never a cave now to hide my
money in, or a place where it might lie without lock or
key, 'till it grew mouldy and tarnished, before any body
would meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron,
the captain, indeed was honeft, and that was the only
refuge I had. In the next place, my interest in the
Brafils feemed to fummon me thither, but now I could
not tell how to think of going thither 'till I had fettled
my affairs, and left my effects in fome fafe hands be-
hind me. At first I thought of my old friend the
widow, who I knew was honeft, and would be juft to
me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
ought I knew, might be in debt; fo that, in a word, I
had no way but logo back to England myfelf, and take
my effects with me.
It was fome months however before I refolved upon
this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his fatisfaftion, who had been my for-
mer benefactor; fo I began to think of my poor
widow, whofe hufband had been my firft benefaftor,
and fhe, while it was in her power, my faithful
fteward and inftruftor. So the first thing I did, I
got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his correfpon-
Z 4 dent
R<
ADVENTURES OF
dent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to go find
her out, and carry her in money an hundred pounds
from me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her
poverty, by telling her, the mould, if I lived, have a
further supply: at the fame time I fent my two filters in the country, each of them an hundred pounds, they
being, though not in want, yet not in very good car, cumftances; one having been married, and left a
widow; and the other having a hufband not fo kind to
her as he would be. But among all my relations or
acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one to
whom I durst commit the grofs of my flock, that I
might go away to the Brafils, and leave things fafe be-
hind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brafils, and
have fettled myfelf there; for I was, as it were, natu-
ralized to the place; but I had fome little fcruple in
my mind about religion, which infenfibly drew me
back, ofwhich I mall fay more prefently. However
it was not religion that kept me from going there for
the-prefent; and as I had made no fcruple of being
openly of the religion of the country all the while I
was among them, fo neither did I yet; only that, now
and then, having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dying
among them, I began to regret my having profefled
myfelf a papift, and thought it might not be the bell religion to die with.
But, as I have faced, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brafils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me;
fo I refolved, at laft, to go to England with it, where,
if I arrived, I concluded I should make fome acquain-
tance, or find fome relations that would be faithful to
me;
me; aadaccor
all my wealth.
In order to p
the Brafil fleet
anfwers ifuitat
things I had fi
Auguftine I w
dealings-, and t
undifpofed of,
to the monafl
ftould direft;
'and the like.'
trufteeS,
pref
cafwn for it.
fcdging his iu
and his integr
him in
acc<
Patron, to
to n

*****
"
p? i
U
**
e
of
pae; and accordingly I prepared to go to England with
all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first, the Brafil fleet being just going away, refolved to give
^nfwers ^fuitable to the just and faithful account of
things I had from thence; and first to the prior of St.
Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for their juft
dealings, and the offer of the 872 moidores which were
undifpofed of, which I defired might be given, 500
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior
should direft; defiring the good padres prayers for me,
and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to my
two trustees, with all the acknowledgement that to much juftice and honefty called for; as for fending
them any prefent, they were far above having any oc-
cafion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknow-
ledging his induftry in the improving the plantation, and his integrity in increafing the stock of the works,
giving him inftruftions for his future government of
my part, according to the powers I had left with my
old patron, to whom I defired him to fend whatever be-
came due to me, 'till he should hear from me more par-
ticularly; affiiring him that it was my intention not only
to come to him, but to fettle myfelf there for the re-
mainder of my life: to this I added a very handfome pre-
fent of fome Italian filks for his wife and two daughters,
for fuch the captain's foil informed me he had; with
two pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the belt I could
get in Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and fome
Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus fettled my affairs, fold my cargo, and
turned all my effefts into good bills of exchange, my next
Difficulty was which way to go to England: I had been
accuftomed
R<
ADVENTURES OF
accuftomed enough to the fea, and yet I had. a ftrange
averfion to go to England by fea at that time; and
though I could give no reafon for it, yet the difficulty
increafed upon me Co much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage, in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by fea, and
this might be fome of the reafons ; but let no man flight
the flrong impulfes of his own thoughts in cafes of fuch
moment: two of the ships which I had fingled out to
go in, I mean, more particularly fingled out than any
other, that is to fay, fo as in one of them to put my
things on board, and in the other to have agreed with
the captain; I fay, two of thefe fhips mifcarried, via.
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cafU
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned, except three; fo that in either of thofe veflels
I had been made miferable, and in which, mod, it was
hard to fay.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, prefled
me earneftly not to go by fea, but either to go by land
to the Groyne, and crofs over the Bay of Bifcay to
Rochelle, from whence it was but an eafy and fafe jour-
ney by land to Paris, and fo to Calais and Dover; or
to go up to Madrid, and fo all the way by land through
France.
In a word, I was fo prepoflefled againft my going by
fea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I refolved
to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in
hafte, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleafanter way: and to make it more fo, my old cap-
tain brought an Englifh gentleman, the fon of a mer-
chant
chant in Limbo after which we
alfo, and two
going to Paris
and five fervani
tuguefe content
two, to fave th,
lift failorto tr;
man Friday, w
this mann
pany being Ver
Ji«le troop, wh
captain, as wel
caufe I had twc
ofthewholejo,

chant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me;
after which we picked up two more Englifh merchants
alfo, and two young Portuguefe gentlemen, the laft
going to Paris only, fo that in all there were fix of us,
and five fervants; the two merchants and the two Por-
tuguefe contenting themselves with one fervant between
two, to fave the charge; and as for me, I got an Eng-
lifh failor.to travel with me as a fervant, befides my
'man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capa-
ble of fupplying the place of a fervant on the road.
In this manner I fet out from Lisbon ; and our com-
pany being very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call me
captain, as well becaufe I was the oldest man, as be.
caufe I had two fervants, and indeed was the original
of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my fea-journals,
fo I shall trouble you now with none of my land-jour-
nal; but fome adventures that happened to us in this
tedious and difficult journey, I mufl not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us Grangers
to Spain, were willing to flay fome time to fee the court
of Spain, and to fee what was worth obferving; but it
being the latter part of the fummer, we hastened away,
and fet out from Madrid about the middle of October :
but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at feveral towns on the way, with an account
that fo much snow was fallen on the French fide of the
mountains, that feveral travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampelona, after having attempted, at an ex-
treme hazard, to pafs on.
When we came to Pampelona itfelf, we found it fo
indeed; and to me, that had been always ufed to a hot
climate,
ADVENTURES OF
climate, and indeed to countries where I could fcarce
bear any cloaths on, the cold was infufferable; nor in-
deed was it more painful than furprizing, to come but
ten days before out of Old Caftile, where the weather
was not only warm but very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains fo very keen,
fo feverely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger
benumbing and perifhing of our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he faw the
mountains all covered with fnow, and felt cold wea-
ther, which he had never feen, or felt before in his
life. To mend the matter, when We came to Pampe-
lona, it continued fnowing with fo much violence, and
fo long, that the people faid winter was come before its
time; and the roads, which were difficult before, were
now quite inipaflable; for, in a word, the fnow lay in
fome places too thick for us to travel, and being not
hard frozen, as is the cafe in the northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being
buried alive every step. We ftayed no lefs than twenty
days at Pampelona; when feeing the winter coming on,
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
fevereft winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory cf man, I propofed that we would all go
away to Fonterabia, and there take fhipping for Bour-
deaux, which was a very little voyage.
But while I was confidering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been ftopped on the
French fide of the pains, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who traverfing the country near
the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the
mountains by fuch ways, that they were not much in, commoded with the fnow; or where they met with
fnow
fhow in any q
enough to bear
this guide, who
lit the flame way vided we were a
from wild beafts
it was frequent fi
the foot of the
«ntof food, tl
We told him v
creatures as they
ki|id.of two-leg.
were in moft da"
fide°fthetn<Mln
. He fttisfied us
Ja the way that v
follow

bow in any quantity,. they faid it was frozen hard
enough to bear them and their horfes. We fent for
this guide, who told us, he would undertake to carry
us the fame way' with no hazard from the fnow, pro-
vided we were armed fufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he faid, upon thefe great fnows,
it was frequent for fame wolves to mew themfelves at
the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for
want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for fuch
creatures as they were, if he would infure us from a
kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were told, we
were in moft danger from, especially on the French
fide of the mountains.
He fatisfied us that there was no danger of that kind
ia the way that we were to go: fo we readily agreed to
follow him, as did alfo twelve other gentlemen with
their fervants, fame French, fome Spanilh, who, as I
faid, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.
Accordingly we fet out from Pampelona, with our
guide, on the 15th of November; and indeed I was fur-
prifed, when inftead of going forward, he came directly
back with us on the fame road that we came from Ma-
drid, about twenty miles; when being paired two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we found our-
felves in a warm climate again; where the country was
pleasant, and no fnow to be feen; but on a sudden, turning to his left, he approached the mountains ano-
ther way; and though it is true the hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made fo many tours, fuch
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we
were infenfibly paired the height of the mountains with.
. out
ADVENTURES OF
out being much incumbered with the fnow; and, all
on a fudden, he shewed us the pleafant fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gafcony, all green and flou-
rifhing, though indeed it was at a great diftance, and
we had fome rough way to pafs yet.
We were a little uneafy, however, when we found
it fnowed one whole day and a night fo fafl, that we
could not travel; but he bid us be eafy, we should foon
be pail it all: we found, indeed, that we began to de-
fcend every day, and to come more north than before;
and fo depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide
being fomething before us, and not just in fight, out
rushed three monftrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood; two of
the wolves made at the guide, and had he been far be-
fore us, he would have been devoured indeed before we
could have helped him; one of them faftened upon his
horfe, and the other attacked the man with that vio-
lence, that he had not time, or not prefence of mind
enough to draw his pistol, but hollaed and cried out to
us mofl luftily. My man Friday being next me, I bade
him ride up, and fee what was the matter: as foon as
Friday came in fight of the man, he hollaed outas loud
as t'other, O master 1 O mailer ! but, like a bold fel-
low, rode directly up to the poor man, and with his
piflol mot the wolf that attacked him into the head.
It was happy for the poor man, that it was my man
Friday; for he having been ufed to that kind of crea-
ture in his country, he had no fear upon him, but went
clofe up to him, and met him, as above; whereas any
other of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have
have
flioot
Bui
I, and
Ihenc
difraal
by the
there t
haps it
cause o
this wo
left hiir
damage
the bofl
man in
had bit
time a l|
defence,
diforder
'be wolf
Rise tol we al
Way, wh
fc what
Octrees,
had been
poorguj,
kind ofc
Butnt
fuchafu
'ween F,
have perhaps either misled the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than
I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with the noife of Friday's piftol, we heard on both fides the
difmalleft howling of wolves; and the noife, redoubled
by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us, as if
there had been a prodigious number of them; and per-
haps indeed there Was not fuch a few as that we had no
caufe of apprehenfions: however, as Friday had killed
this wolf, the other that had faftened upon the horfe,
left him immediately, and fled, without doing him any
damage, having happily faftened upon his head, where
the bones of the bridle had stuck in his teeth; but the
man indeed was moft hurt; for the raging creature
had bit him twice, once in the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee; and though he made fome
defence, he was just as it were tumbling down by the
diforder of his horfe, when Friday came up, and fhot
the wolf.
It is eafy to fuppofe, that at the noife of Friday's pif-
tol we all mended our pace, and rode up as faft as the
way, which was very difficult, would give us leave, to
fee what was the matter. As foon as we came clear, of
the trees, which blinded us before, we faw clearly what
had been the cafe, and how Friday had difengaged the
poor guide, though we did not prefently difcern what
kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed fo hardily, and in
fuch a furprifing manner, as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all, though
at first we were furprifed and afraid for him, the great-
eft diverfion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy,
clumfjf
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
who is fwift and light, fo he has two particular quali-
ties, which generally are the rule of his actions : first, as to men, who are not his proper prey, I fay, not his proper prey, becaufe he does not usually attempt them,
except they firft attack him, unlefs he be exceilive hun-'
gry, which it is probable might now be his cafe, the
ground being covered with fnow; on the contrary, if
you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with
him, he won't meddle with you; but then you muft
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the ,
road, for he is a very nice gentleman; he won't go a
step out of his way for a Prince; nay, if you are really
afraid, your belt way is to look another way, and keep1
going on; for, fometimes, if you ftop, and ftand ftill,
and look ftedfaftly at him, he takes it for an affront;
but if you throw or tofs any thing at him, and it hits
him, though it were but a bit of Rick as big as your
finger, he thinks himfelf abufed, and fets all other bu-
finefsafide to purfue his revenge, and will have fatisfac-
tion in point of honour; this is his first quality: the
next is, if he be once affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but follows
at a good round rate, till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from his
horfe, for the man was both hurt and frightened;
when, on a fudden, we efpied the bear come out of the
wood, and a raft monftrous one it was, the biggeft by
far that ever I faw. We were all a little fnrprized when,
we faw him; but when Friday faw him, it was eafy to
fee joy and courage in the fellow's countenance; O,
O, O! feys. Friday, three times, pointing to him; O
* mailer) taatfe
him;
I w;
fool, £
toe up
up; m
fllow y<
boors j,
we call
his poc£
his gun
The b,
die with
to him, a
hark ye> 1
c°ny fide,
forest, wh
though it;
Friday,
came up ^
and throws o void of
foll°n
ra,
abo
ut, and <

I.
taafter! you give me te leave, me fhakec te hand with
him; me make you good laugh.
I was furprized to fee the fellow fo well pleafed: You
fool, fays I, he will eat you up. Eatee me tip! eatee
hie up! fays Friday, twice over again; me eatee him
up; me make you good laugh; you all flay here, me
show you good laugh: fo down he fits, and gets off his
boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps, (as
we call the flat fhoes they wear, and which he had in
his pocket) gives my other fervant his horfe, and with
his gun away he flew, fwift like the wind.
The bear was walking-softly on, and offered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near,, calls
to him, as if the.bear could understand him; Hark ye,
hark ye, fays Friday; me fpeakee wit you. We follow-
ed at a diftance; for now being come down on the Gaf-
cony fide of the mountains, we were entered a vaft great
foreft, where the country was plain and' pretty open,
though it had many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we fry, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great Hone,
and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it anfwered Friday's end, for the rogue was
fo void of fear, that he did it purely to make the bear
follow him, and mew us fome laugh, as he called it.
As foon as the bear felt the blow, and faw him, he turns
about, and comes after him, taking devilifh longftrides,
and shuffling along at a ftrange rate, fo as would have
put a horfe to a middling gallop: away runs Friday,
and takes his courfe as if he run towards us for help j
fo we all refolved to fire at once upon the bear, and de-
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
VOL. I. A a bringing
ADVENTURES OF
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about his own bufinefs another way; and efpecially I
was angry, that he had turned the bear upon us, and
then run away; and I called out, You dog, faid I, is
this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your
horfe, that we may shoot the creature. He hears me,
and cries out; No fhoot, no fhoot; fland ftill, and you
get much laugh: and as the nimble creature ran two
feet for the beast's one, he turned on a fudden, on one
fide of us, and feeing a great oak tree fit for his purpose,' he beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he
gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about five or fix yards from the bottom of
the tree. The bear foon came to the tree, and we fol-
lowed at a diftance: the first thing he did, he flopped
at the gun, fmelt to it, buflet it lie, and up he fcram-
bles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though.fo mon-
ftrous heavy. I was amazed at the'folly, as I thought
it, of my man, and could not, for my life, fee any thing
to laugh at yet, till feeing the bear get up the tree, we
all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the fmall end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear
got about half-way to him: as foon as the bear got out
to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,—
Ha, fays he to us, now you fee me teachee the bear
dance: fo he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at
which the bear began to totter, but flood ftill, and be-
gan to look behind him, to fee how he should get back;
then indeed we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not
done with him by a great deal; when fixing him ftand
ftill, he calls out to him again, as if he had fuppofedthe
bear could fpeak English : What, you come no farther;
pray
fret
did
and
time
to fi
criedftooi
Howe
and t
cnoug
fellow
onfhai
curing
£nough
great 6,
g'ne Wh
wouldb
But p
bear
be
PerfUi
er
you come farther: fo he left jumping and shaking the
tree; and the bear, just as if he underflood what he faid,
did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping again,
and the bear flopped again. We thought now was a good
time to knock him on the head, and called to Friday
to Rand full, and we would shoot the bear: but he
i
cried out earnestly, O pray! O pray! no fhoot; me
fhoot by and then; he would have' faid by and by.—
However, to shorten the flory, Friday danced fo much,
and the bear stood fo ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but ftill could not imagine what the
fellow would do: for first we thought he depended up-
on making the bear off; and we found the bear was too
cunning for that too; for he would not go out far
enough to be thrown'down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, fo that we could not ima-
gine what would be the end of it, and what the jeft
Would beat laft.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for feeing
the bear cling faft to the bough, and that he would not
be perfuaded to come any farther,'Well, well, fays Fri-
day, you no come farther, me go; you no come to me,
me come to you : and upon this, he goes out to the
fmaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himfelf down by it, Riding down
the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on
his feet, and away ..he runs to his gun, takes it up,
and flands full. Well, faid I to him, Friday, what
will you do now? Why don't you shoot him? No
fhoot, fays Friday, no yet; me shoot now, me no kill;
me flay, give you one more laugh: and indeed fo he
did, as you will fee prefently; for when the bear faw
his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where
A a 2 he
ADVENTURES OF
he flood, but did it mighty leifurely, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into
the body of the tree; then with the fame hinder-end
foremoft, he came down the tree, grafping it with his
claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leifurely.
At this juncture, and juft before he could fethis hind-
foot on the ground, Friday Hepped up clofe to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and fhot
him dead. Then the rogue turned about, to fee if we
did not laugh; and when he faw we were pleafed, by
our looks, he falls a laughing himfelf very loud: So we
kill bear in my country, fays Friday. So you kill
them, fays I; why you have no guns: No, fays he, no
gun, but fhoot great much long arrow. This was in-
deed a good diverfion to us; but we were ftill in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do
we hardly knew: the howling of wolves run much in
my head; and indeed, except the noife I once heard on
the shore of Africa, of which I have faced fomething al-
ready, I never heard any thing that filled me with fo
much horror.
Thefe things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or elfe, as Friday would have had us, we should cer-
tainly have taken the fkin of this monftrous creature
off, which was worth faving; but we had near three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; fo we left
him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was ftill covered with fnow, though not
fo deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest and plain country, preffed by
hunger, to feek for food, and had done a great deal of
mifchief in the villages, where they furprized the coun-
try
try
bor
plac
Jnon
and t
every
Were
ftoul<
w«s w
firft w
the pj;
cept, t
not ab<
«.'ofs th
had be,
they toc
in a few
*a7, wa
ready po
*t Woc
the Plain
try people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, and fome people too. We had one dangerous
place to pass, which our guide told us, if there were
more wolves in the country, we should find them there;
and this was a fmall plain, furrounded with woods on
every fide, and a long narrow defile or lane, which we
were to pafs to get through the wood, and then we
should come to the village where we were to lodge. It
was within half an hour of fun-fet when we entered the
firft wood, and a little after fun-fet when we came into
the plain : we met with nothing in the firft wood, ex-
cept, that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we faw five great wolves
c.rofs the road, full fpeed one after another, as if they
had been in chace of fome prey, and had it in view;
they took no notice of us, and were gone out of fight
in a few moments. Upon this, our guide, who, by the
way, was but a faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a
ready posture, for he believed there were more wolves a
coming. We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about
US; but we faw no more wolves till we camejhrou'gh
that wood, which was near half a league, and entered
the plain. As foon as we came into the plain, we had
occafion enough to look about us: the firft object we
met with, was a dead horfe, that is to fay, a poor horfe
which the wolves had killed, and at leaft a dozen of
them at work, we could not fay eating of him, but pick-
ing of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all the
flesh before. We did not think fit to difturb them at
their feaft; neither did they take much notice of us:
Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not
suffer him by any means; for I found we were like to
have more bufinefs upon our hands than we were aware, A a 3 off
ADVENTURES OF
of. We were not gone half over the plain, but we bee gan to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left,
in a frightful manner, and prefently after we faw about
9 hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and moft of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. I fcarce knew in
what manner to receive them; but found, to draw our-
felves in a clofe line was the only way; fo we formed
in a moment; -but that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered, that only every other man would fire, and that the others who had not fired, mould ftand
ready to give them a fecond volley immediately, if they
continued to advance upon us; and that then thofe who
had fired at first, would not pretend to load their fufees
again, but Rand ready with every one a pistol ; for we
were all armed with a fufee, and a pair of piftols each
man; fo we were, by this method, able to fire fix vol-
lies, half of us at a time: however, at prefent, we had
no necessity ; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy
made a full flop, being terrified as well with the noise, as with the fire; four of them being fhot into the head,
dropped, feveral others were wounded, and went bleed-
ing off, as we could fee by the mow. I found they
flopped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon,
remembering that I had been told, that the fierceft crea-
tures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caufed all
the company to holla as loud as we could; and I found
the notion not altogether miftaken; for upon ourfhout,
they began to retire, and turn about: then I ordered a
fecon'd volley to be fired in their rear, which put them
to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This
gave us leifure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going: but we -had but

little more than loaded our fufees, and put ourfelvcs in-
to a readiness, when we- heard a terrible noife in the
fame wood, on our left, only that it was farther onward,
the fame way we were to go.
. The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worfe on our fide; but the noife
encreafing, we could eafily. perceive that it was the
howling and yelling of thofe hellifh creatures; and, on a fudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves,
one on our left, one behind us, and one in our front;
fo that we feemed to be surrounded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way for-
ward, as fail as we could make our horfes go, which,
the way being very rough, was only a good large trot.
In this manner we came in view of the entrance of a
wood, through which we were to pafs, at the farther
fide of the plain , but we were greatly furprifed, when
'coming nearer the lane or pafs, we'faw a confused num-
ber of wolves ftanding juft at the entrance. On a fud-
den, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noife of a gun, and looking that way, out rufhed a
horse, with a faddle and a bridle on him, flying like
the wind, and fixteen or feventeen wolves after him,
full fpeed; indeed the horfe had the heels of them, but
as we fuppofed that he could not hold it at that rate, w.e
doubted not but they would get up with him at laft,
no queftion but they did.
But here we had a most horrible fight; for riding up
to the entrance'where the horfe came out, we found the
carcafes of another horfe, and of two men, devoured by
the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was n,o
doubt the fame whom we heard fire the gun, for there
lay a gun juft by him fired off; but as to the man, his
A a 4 head
ADVENTURES Off
head and the upper part of his body was eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to
take: but the creatures refolved us foon, for they ga-
thered about us prefently, in hopes of prey; and I ve-
rily believe there were three hundred of them. It hap-
pened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance
into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay fome
large timber-trees, which had been cut down the summer before, and I fuppofe lay there for carriage. I
drew my little troop in among thofe trees, and placing
ourfelves in a line behind one long tree, I advifed them
all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breaft-
work, to ftand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclofing
our horfes in the centre.
We did fo, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this place. They came on with a growling kind of
noife, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I
laid, was our brealt-work, as if they were only rufh-
ing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it feems,
was principally occasioned by their feeing our horfes
behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every
other man; and they took their aim fo fare, that they
indeed killed feveral of the wolves at the first volley;
but there was a neceffity to keep a continual firing, for
they came on like devils,'those behind pushing on thofe
before.
When we had fired the fecond volley of our fusees, we thought they ftopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone off; but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again; fo we fired two vollies of
our piftols, and I believe in thefe four firings we had
killed feventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice
as
as many, yet they came on again. I was loath to fpend
our laft (hot too haftily; fo I called my fervant, not my
man Friday, for he was better employed; for, with the
greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fufee
and his own while we were engaged; but, as I faid, I
called my other man, and giving him a horn of powder,
I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and
let it be a large train. He did fo,—and had but juft time
to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and fome
were got upon it, when I, fnapping an uncharged piftol
clofe to the powder, fet it on fire; thofe that were upon
the timber were fcorched with it; and fix or fcven of
them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the
£prce and fright of the fire: we difpatched thefe in an
instant, and the reds were fo frightened with the light,
which the night, for it was now very near dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little; upon
which I ordered our laft piftol to be fired off in one
volley, and after that we gave a shout : Upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we fallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones, that we found ftrugglingon the
ground, and fell a cutting them with our fwords, which
anfwered our expectation ; for the crying and howling
they made was better, underftood by their fellows; fo
that they all fled and left us.
We had, firft and laft, killed about threefcore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward again, for we had full near a league to go. We
heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods
as we went, feveral times; and fometimes we fancied
we law fome of them, but the fnow dazzling our eyes,
we were not certain; fo in about an hour more we came
to
ADVENTURES OF
to the town where we were to lodge, which we found
in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it feems,
that the night before, the wolves and fome bears had
broke into the village, and put them in a terrible
fright, and they were obliged to keep guard night and
day, but efpecially in the night, to preferve their cattle
and indeed their people. ^
The next morning our guide was fo ill, and his leg
fwelled fo much with the rankling of his two wounds,
that he could go no farther; fo we were obliged to take
a new guide there, and go to Thouloufe, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful pleafant country, and
no fnow, no wolves, or any thing like them; but when
we told our story at Thouloufe, they told us it was no-
thing but what was ordinary in the great foreft at the foot
of the mountains, efpecially when the fnow lay on the
ground; but they inquired much what kind of a guide
we had gotten, who would venture to bring us that way
in fuch a fevere feafon; and told us it was very much
we were not all devoured. When we told them how
we placed ourfelves, and the horfes in the middle, they
blamed us exceedingly, and told us, it was fifty to one
but we had been all deftroyed; for it was the fight of
the horfes which made the wolves fo furious, feeing
their prey; and that, at other times, they are really
afraid of a gun ; but the being excessive hungry, and
raging on that account, the eagernefs to come at the
horfes had made them fenfelefs of danger; and that if
we had not by the continued fire, and at laft by the ftra-
tagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have fat still on horse- back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have
taken
taken
on tbj
that a
horfes
them,
having
in nun
danger i
come re
having r
over for
care to c
much ra
Were fure
Have
hav
vantage tfc
Paris> and
lais.andla
ln
ha
a Httle t
3fcebi
viugbeer
%-prioc

taken the horfes fo much for their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwife; and withal they told us,
that at laft, if we had ftood altogether, and left our
horfes, they would have been fo eager to have devoured
them, that we might have come off fafe, especially having our fire-arms in our hands, and being fo many
in number. For my part, I was never fo fenfible of
danger in my life; for feeing above three hundred devils
come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and
having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myfelf
over for loft, and, as it was, I believe I fhall never
care to crofs thofe mountains again; I think I would
much rather go a thoufand leagues by fea, though I
were fure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France, nothing but what other tra-
vellers have given an account of, with much more ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled from Thouloufe to
Paris, and without any confiderable flay came to Ca-
lais, and landed fafe at Dover the i4th of January, after
having had a fevere cold feafon to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new difcovered eflate fafe about
me; the bills of exchange which I brought with me
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counfellor, was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the money
I had fent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her fo entirely
with every thing, that I was perfectly eafy as to the fe-
curity of rqy effefls; and indeed I was very happy from the beginning, and now to the end, in the unfpotted
integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And
ADVENTURES OF
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with
this woman, and fetting out for Lisbon, and fo to the
Brafils: but now another fcruple came in my way, and
that was religion; for as I had entertained fome doubts
about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad,
especially in my flate. of folitude, fo I knew there was
no going to the Brafils for me, much lefs going ta
settle there, unlefs I refolved to embrace the Roman
Catholic religion, without any referve; unless, on the
other hand, I resolved to be a facrifice to my principles,
be a martyr for religion, and die in, the Inquifition: fa
I resolved to flay at home, and if I could find means for it, to difpofe of my plantation.
To this purpofe I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon; who, in return, gave me notice, that he could easily difpofe of it there; but that if I thought fit to give him,
leave, he would offer it in my name to the two mer-
chants, the furvivors of my trustees, who, lived in the
Brafils, and fully understood the value of it, by living
just upon the fpot, and who I knew were very rich;
fo that he believed they would be fond of buying it:.
he did not doubt but I should make four or five thou sand pieces of eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed; gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did fo; and in about eight months more, the fhip being then returned, he fent me an account,
that they had accepted the offer, and had remitted,
thirty-three thoufand pieces of eight to a correfpondent
of theirs at Lifbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of fale in the form,
which they fent from Lifbon, and fent it to my old
man, who fent me bills of exchange for thirty-two,
tl.oufand eight hundred pieces of eight for the eft ate,
referving
refer
him,
after
them
rent-
An
fortur
work,
beabl
dofino
gave it Any
cated g
zards;
had co
had no
had I Cc
fold fflj
country
the win.
Poor Sp;
I had lei
from it)
seven ye;
one of r
Sav« hin

fe
tefcrving the payment of a hundred moidores a-year tcf
him, the old man, during his life, and fifty moidores
afterwards to his fon for his life, which I had promifed
them, and which the plantation was to make good as a
rent-charge. •
And thus I have given the firft part of a life of
fortune and adventures, a life of Providence's chequer-
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom be able to fhew the like of; beginning foolifhly, but
closing much more happily than any part of it ever
gave me leave fo much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this Rate of compli-
cated good fortune, I was paft running any more ha-
zards; and fo indeed I had been, if other circumflance?
had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering life,
had no family, not many relations, nor, however rich,
had I contracted much acquaintance; and though I had
fold my estate in the Brafils, yet I could not keep the
country out of my head, and had a great mind to be on
the wing again; efpecially I could not refift the strong inclination I had to fee my ifland, and to know if the
poor Spaniards were in being there, and how the rogues
I had left there ufed them.
My true friend, the widow, earneftly diffuaded me
from it, and fo far prevailed with me, that, for almost feven years, fhe prevented my running abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldeft having
fomething of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a fettlement of fome addition to his estate, after my deceafe. The other I put out to a captain of a
fhip; and after five years, finding him a fenfible, bold,
•enterprifing young fellow, I put him into a good ship, fent him to fear ; and this young fellow afterwards
drew
ADVENTURES OF1
1
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures
myfelf.
In the mean time, I in part fettled myfelf here; for, first of all, I married, and that not either to my difad-
vantage or diflatisfaftion, and had three children, two
fons and one daughter; but my wife dying, and my
nephew coming home with good fuccefs from a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his impor-
tunity prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as
a private trader to the Eaft-Indies: this was in the
year 1694.
. In this voyage I vifited my new colony in the ifland,
faw my fucceflbrs the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left there; how at
firft they infulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, difagreed, united, feparated, and how at
laft the Spaniards were obliged to ufe violence with
them, how they were subjected to the Spaniards, how
honeftly the Spaniards ufed them; a hiftory, if it were
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents,
as my own part; particularly alfo as to their battles with
the Caribbeans, who landed feveral times upon the
ifland, and as to the improvement they made upon the
ifland itfelf; and how five of them made an attempt
upon the main land, and brought away eleven men' and five women prifoners, by which, at my coming, I
found about twenty young children on the ifland.
Here I stayed about twenty days, left them fupplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, cloaths, tools, and two workmen, which I
brought from England with me, viz. a carpenter and
a fniith.
Besides 
Befides this, I fhared the ifland into parts with them;
referred to myfelf the property of the whole, but gave
them fuch parts refpeftively, as they agreed on ; and
having fettled all things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brafils, from whence
I fent a bark, which I bought there, with more people
to the ifland, and in it, befides other fupplies, I fent
five women, being fuch as I found proper for fervice, or
for wives to fuch as would take them. As to the Eng-
lifhmen, I promifed them to fend them fome women
from England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they
would apply themselves to planting, which I afterwards
performed: and the fellows proved very honest and
diligent after they were mastered, and had their proper-
ties fet apart for them. I fent them alfo from the Bram fils three milch cows, fome hogs, two mares, and a
ftone horfe. .
But all thefe things, with an account how 300 Ca-
ribbes came and invaded them, and ruined their plan-
tations, and how they fought with that whole number
twice, and were at firft defeated, and three of them
killed; but at laft they defeated them, deftroyed their
enemies canoes, and famifhed or deftroyed almoft all
the reft, and renewed and recovered the pofleffion of
their plantation, and ftill lived upon the ifland;
All these things, with fome very furprizing incidents
in fome new adventures of my own, forten years more,
I shall give a farther account of in another volume.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 