Daniel Defoe
ROBINSON CRUSOE
TOLD TO THE CHILDREN BY
JOHN LANG
WITH PICTURES BY
W. B. ROBINSON

LONDON: T. C. & E. C. JACK
NEW YORK: E. P. DUTTON & CO.
TO
ALEC CORSE SCOTT
MY DEAR ALEC,
When Defoe wrote Robinson Crusoe,
nearly two hundred years ago, boys had more time on their
hands, fewerbooks and fewer games than they have now, and
they, as well as their fathers, read it and loved it. And when
your father and I were boys—though that is rather less than
two hundred years ago—we too used often to read it.
But boys nowadays do not seem to read Robinson
Crusoe as they used to do. It is too long, they think,
and there is much in it that they have not time to read.
That is why I have written here, in as few words as
Possible, the tale of Robinson's twenty-eight years in his
sland, and I hope that you, and other boys, will like it.
The sea that lay round Robinson's island is not like the
one you know—the grey North Sea, stormy and cold;
but it is blue like a sapphire, and where the rollers break in
white foam on the coral reefs it seems as if it were edged with
pearls. On the shores of the islands, cocoa-nut palms wave
their feathery fronds in the breeze; butterflies of wondrous
colours hover about; and in and out amongst the thick-leaved
trees dash birds, chattering and screaming, all crimson and
blue and yellow and green.
Often there are snakes too, and it was lucky that no
snakes on Robinson's island troubled him. For on some
islands that I have seen there are snakes—black and white,
the most poisonous of them—that swim about in the sea and
come up on the beach, and you have to be careful that you
do not sit down on the top of one, for they are not always
very quick at getting out of the way.
When you are a man, perhaps some day you will go to one
of those tropical islands. And if you take a boat and row out
to the inside of the reef of coral that lies round the island, and
put your face close down, and look through the quiet, crystal
clear water, you will know what Fairyland beneath the sea
is like. You will find there gardens of a beauty never seen
on land, only the branches of the trees are of coral, and in and
out amongst them, instead of bright-coloured birds, you will
see fishes swimming, some of a vivid yellow and black, others
blue as the sky. That is where the mermaids used to play,
when the world was younger than it is now.
Yours affectionately,
JOHN LANG.
CONTENTS
Chap. Page
I. How Robinson first went to sea, and how he
'was ship-wrecked, I
ll. Robinson works hard at making himself a
home, . . . . . .12
III. The earthquake and hurricane; and how
Robinson built a boat, . . .27
IV. Robinson builds a second boat, in which he
is swept out to sea, . . . 31
V. Robinson sees a footprint on the sand, and
finds traces of cannibal feasts, . . 38
VI. Robinson finds a cave; hears guns fired by
a ship in distress, . . . .48
VII. Robinson visits the wrecked Spanish ship;
rescues a prisoner from the cannibals, . 59
VIII. How Robinson trained Friday, . .73
IX. Robinson and Friday build a large boat;
they rescue two prisoners from the
cannibals, ..... 86
X. Arrival of an English ship; Robinson sails
for home, . .... 99
ix
-
LIST OF PICTURES
Slowly the raft drifted nearer and nearer the shore, Frontispiece
At page
Once Robinson shot a lion that he saw lying asleep, . 8
One day he came on a large turtle, • .... 26
He saw the mark of a naked foot on the sand, • . 40
The harbour where he had kept his boat so long, . . 64
The man knelt and kissed the ground, .... 70
Robinson ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds, . 94
What could an English ship be doing here? . • 102
CHAPTER I
HOW ROBINSON FIRST WENT TO SEA;
AND HOW HE WAS SHIPWRECKED
Long, long ago, before even your grand-
father's father was born, there lived in the
town of York a boy whose name was
Robinson Crusoe. Though he never even
saw the sea till he was quite a big boy, he
had always wanted to be a sailor, and to go
away in a ship to visit strange, foreign, far-off
lands; and he thought that if he could only
do that, he would be quite happy.
But his father wanted him to be a lawyer,
and he often talked to Robinson, and told
him of the terrible things that might happen
to him if he went away, and how people who
stopped at home were always the happiest.
He told him, too, how Robinson's brother
2 ROBINSON CRUSOE
had gone away, and had been killed in the
wars.
So Robinson promised at last that he would
give up wanting to be a sailor. But in a few
days the longing came back as bad as ever,
and he asked his mother to try to coax his
father to let him go just one voyage. But
his mother was very angry, and his father
said, 'If he goes abroad he will be the most
miserable wretch that ever was born. I can
give no consent to it.'
Robinson stopped at home for another
year, till he was nineteen years old, all the
time thinking and thinking of the sea. But
one day when he had gone on a visit to Hull,
a big town by the sea, to say good-bye to one
of his friends who was going to London, he
could not resist the chance. Without even
sending a message to his father and mother,
he went on board his friend's ship, and sailed
away.
But as soon as the wind began to blow and
the waves to rise, poor Robinson was very
frightened and sea-sick, and he said to him-
HOW HE WENT TO SEA 3
self that if ever he got on shore he would go
straight home and never again leave it.
He was very solemn till the wind stopped
blowing. His friend and the sailors laughed
at him, and called him a fool, and he very
soon forgot, when the weather was fine and
the sun shining, all he had thought about
going back to his father and mother.
But in a few days, when the ship had sailed
as far as Yarmouth Roads on her way to
London, they had to anchor, and wait for a
fair wind. In those days there were no
steamers, and vessels had only their sails to
help them along; so if it was calm, or the
wind blew the wrong way, they had just
to wait where they were till a fair wind
blew.
Whilst they lay at Yarmouth the weather
became very bad, and there was a great
storm. The sea was so heavy and Robinson's
ship was in such danger, that at last they
had to cut away the masts in order to ease
her and to stop her from rolling so terribly.
The Captain fired guns to show that his
ship wanted help. So a boat from another
ship was lowered, and came with much
difficulty and took oft Robinson and all the
crew, just before their vessel sank; and they
got ashore at last, very wet and miserable,
having lost all their clothes except what they
had on.
But Robinson had some money in his
pocket, and he went on to London by land,
thinking that if he returned home now, people
would laugh at him.
In London he made friends with a ship's
captain, who had not long before come home
from a voyage to the Guinea Coast, as that
part of Africa was then called; and the
Captain was so pleased with the money he
had made there, that he easily persuaded
Robinson to go with him on his next voyage.
So Robinson took with him toys, and beads,
and other things, to sell to the natives in
Africa, and he got there, in exchange for
these things, so much gold dust that he
thought he was soon going in that way to
make his fortune.
And therefore he went on a second voyage.
But this time he was not so lucky, for
before they reached the African Coast, one
morning, very early, they sighted another
ship, which they were sure was a Pirate.
So fast did this other vessel sail, that before
night she had come up to Robinson's ship,
which did not carry nearly so many men nor
so many guns as the Pirate, and which there-
fore did not want to fight; and the pirates
soon took prisoner Robinson and all the
crew of his ship who were not killed, and
made slaves of them.
The Pirate captain took Robinson as his
own slave, and made him dig in his garden
and work in his house. Sometimes, too, he
made him look after his ship when she was in
port, but he never took him away on a voyage.
For two years Robinson lived like this,
very unhappy, and always thinking how he
might escape.
At last, when the Captain happened one
time to be at home longer than usual, he
began to go out fishing in a boat two or three
times a week, taking Robinson, who was a
very good fisher, and a black boy named
Xury, with him.
One day he gave Robinson orders to put
food and water, and some guns, and powder
and shot, on a big boat that the pirates had
taken out of an English ship, and to be
ready to go with him and some of his friends
on a fishing trip.
But at the last moment the Captain's
friends could not come, and so Robinson was
told to go out in the boat with one of the
Captain's servants who was not a slave, and
with Xury, to catch fish for supper.
Then Robinson thought that his chance to
escape had come.
He spoke to the servant, who was not very
clever, and persuaded him to put more food
and water on the boat, for, said Robinson,
'we must not take what was meant for our
master.' And then he got the servant to
bring some more powder and shot, because,
Robinson said, they might as well kill some
birds to eat
.
When they had gone out about a mile,
they hauled down the sail and began to fish.
But Robinson pretended that he could not
catch anything there, and he said that they
ought to go further out. When they had
gone so far that nobody on shore could see
what they were doing, Robinson again pre-
tended to fish. But this time he watched
his chance, and when the servant was not
looking, came behind him and threw him
overboard, knowing that the man could
swim so well that he could easily reach the
land.
Then Robinson sailed away with Xury
down the coast to the south. He did not
know to what country he was steering, but
cared only to get away from the pirates, and
to be free once more.
Long days and nights they sailed, some-
times running in close to the land, but they
were afraid to go ashore very often, because
of the wild beasts and the natives. Many
times they saw great lions come roaring
down on to the beach, and once Robinson
shot one that he saw lying asleep, and took
its skin to make a bed for himself on the
boat
At last, after some weeks, when they had
got south as far as the great cape that is
called Cape de Verde, they saw a Portuguese
vessel, which took them on board. It was
not easy for Robinson to tell who he was,
because he could not talk Portuguese, but
everybody was very kind to him, and they
bought his boat and his guns and everything
that he had. They even bought poor Xury,
who, of course, was' a black slave, and could
be sold just like a horse or a dog.
So, when they got to Brazil, where the
vessel was bound, Robinson had enough
money to buy a plantation; and he grew
sugar and tobacco there for four years, and
was very happy and contented for a time,
and made money.
But he could never be contented for very
long. So when some of his neighbours asked
him if he would go in a ship to the Guinea
Coast to get slaves for them, he went, only

Once Robinson shot a lion that he saw lying asleep
HOW HE WAS SHIPWRECKED 9
making a bargain that he was to be paid
for his trouble, and to get some of the slaves
to work on his plantation when he came
back.
Twelve days after the ship sailed, a
terrible storm blew, and they were driven
far from where they wanted to go. Great,
angry, foaming seas broke over the deck,
sweeping everything off that could be moved,
and a man and a boy were carried overboard
and drowned. No one on the ship expected
to be saved.
This storm was followed by another, even
worse. The wind howled and roared through
the rigging, and the weather was thick
with rain and flying spray.
Then early one morning land was dimly
seen through the driving rain, but almost
at once the vessel struck on a sand-bank.
In an instant the sails were blown to bits,
and flapped with such uproar that no one
could hear the Captain's orders. Waves
poured over the decks, and the vessel
bumped on the sand so terribly that the
masts broke off near the deck, and fell over
the side into the sea.
With great difficulty the only boat left on
the ship was put in the water, and everybody
got into her. They rowed for the shore,
hoping to get perhaps into some bay, or to
the mouth of a river, where the sea would
be quiet.
But before they could reach the land, a
huge grey wave, big like the side of a house,
came foaming and thundering up behind
them, and before any one could even cry
out, it upset the boat, and they were all left
struggling in the water.
Robinson was a very good swimmer, but
no man could swim in such a sea, and it
was only good fortune that brought him at
last safely to land. Big wave after big wave
washed him further and further up the
beach, rolling him over and over, once leav-
ing him helpless, and more than half-drowned,
beside a rock.
But before the next wave could come up,
perhaps to drag him back with it into the
sea, he was able to jump up and run for
bis life.
And so he got safely out of the reach of
the water, and lay down upon the grass.
But of all on board the ship, Robinson was
the only one who was not drowned.
ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING
HIMSELF A HOME
When he had rested a little, Robinson got
up and began to walk about very sadly,
for darkness was coming on; he was wet,
and cold, and hungry, and he did not know
tthere to sleep, because he was afraid of
wild beasts coming out of the woods and
killing him during the night.
But he found that he still had his
knife in his pocket, so he cut a big stick to
protect himself with. Then he climbed into
a tree which had very thick leaves, and there
he fixed himself among the branches as well
as he could, and fell sound asleep.
In the morning when he awoke, the storm
was past, and the sea quieter. To his
12
MAKES HIMSELF A HOME 13
surprise, he saw that the ship had been
carried in the night, by the great seas,
much nearer to the shore than she had
been when the boat left her, and was now
lying not far from the rock where Robinson
had first been washed up.
By midday the sea was quite calm, and
the tide had gone so far out that he could
walk very near to the ship. So he took off
his clothes and swam the rest of the way to
her. But it was not easy to get on board,
because the ship was resting on the sand,
and lay so high out of the water that
Robinson could not reach anything by which
he could pull himself up.
At last, after swimming twice round the
vessel, he saw a rope hanging over, near
the bow, and by its help he climbed on
board.
Everything in the stern of the ship was
dry, and in pretty good order, and the water
had not hurt the provisions much. So he
took some biscuits, and ate them as he looked
about, and drank some rum, and then he felt
better, and stronger, and more fit to begin
work.
First of all, he took a few large spars of
wood, and a spare topmast or two, that were
on the deck. These he pushed overboard,
tying each with a rope to keep it from drift-
ing away. Then he went over the side of
the ship, and tied all the spars together so
as to make a raft, and on top he put pieces
of plank across. But it was long before he
could make the raft fit to carry the things he
wanted to take on shore.
At last, after much hard work, he got on to
it three of the seamen's chests, which he had
broken open and emptied, and he filled these
with bread, and rice, and cheese, and what-
ever he could find to eat, and with all sorts
of things that he thought he might need.
He found, too, the carpenter's tool chest,
and put it on the raft; and nothing on the
whole ship was of more use to him than
that
.
Then he set about looking for clothes, for
while he had been on the ship, the tide had
risen and had washed away his coat and
waistcoat and shirt, which he had left lying
on the sand.
Guns and pistols also, and powder and shot,
he took, and two old rusty cutlasses.
Now the trouble was to reach land, for the
raft had no mast nor sail nor rudder, and was
too heavy and clumsy to be pulled by Robin-
son with the broken oars that he had found.
But the tide was rising, and slowly she drifted
nearer and nearer, and at last was carried
up the mouth of a little river which Robinson
had not seen when he was on shore.
There was a strong tide running up, which
once carried the raft against a point of land,
where she stuck for a time, and very nearly
upset all the things into deep water. But as
the tide rose higher, Robinson was able to
push her into a little bay where the water
was shallow and the ground beneath flat,
and when the tide went out there she was
left high and dry, and he got everything
safely ashore.
The next thing that Robinson did was to
climb a hill, that he might see what sort of
country he was in, and find out if there were
any other people in it. But when he got to
the top, he saw to his sorrow that he was on
an island, with no other land in sight except
some rocks, and two smaller islands far over
the sea. There were no signs of any people,
and he saw nothing living except great
numbers of birds, one of which he shot
But it was not fit to eat, being some kind
of hawk.
After this, with the chests and boards that
he had brought on shore, he made a kind of
hut to sleep in that night, and he lay there on
the sand very comfortably.
Day by day now for some time Robinson
swam out to the ship, and made fresh rafts,
loading them with many stores, powder and
shot, and lead for bullets, seven muskets,
a great barrel of bread, three casks of rum, a
quantity of flour, some grain, a box of sugar,
sails and ropes and twine, bags of nails, and
many hatchets. With one of the sails he
made himself a good tent, in which he put
everything that could be spoiled by rain or
sun. Around it he piled all the casks and
other heavy things, so that no wild beast
could very easily get at him.
In about a fortnight the weather changed;
it blew very hard one night, and in the morn-
ing the ship had broken up, and was no more
to be seen. But that did not so much matter,
for Robinson had got out of her nearly every-
thing that he could use.
Now, Robinson thought it time to find some
better place for his tent. The land where it
then stood was low and near the sea, and the
only water he could get to drink tasted rather
salt Looking about, he found a little plain,
about a hundred yards across, on the side of
a hill, and at the end of the plain was a great
rock partly hollowed out, but not so as quite
to make a cave. Here he pitched his tent,
close to the hollow place in the rock. Round
in front of the tent he drove two rows of
strong stakes, about eighteen inches apart,
sharpened at top; and he made this fence so
strong that when it was finished he was sure
that nothing could get at him, for he left no
door, but climbed in and out by a ladder,
which he always hauled up after him.
Before closing up the end, Robinson
hauled inside this fence all his stores, his
food and his guns, his powder and shot, and
he rigged inside a double tent, so better to
keep off the hot sun and the rain.
Then he began to dig into the rock, which
was not very hard, and soon behind his tent
he had a cave in which he thought it wise to
stow his gunpowder, about one hundred and
forty pounds in all, packed in small parcels;
for, he thought, if a big thunderstorm were to
come, a flash of lightning might explode it all,
and blow him to bits, if he kept the whole of
it in his tent
.
Robinson was now very comfortable, and
as he had saved from the wreck two cats and
a dog, he did not feel quite so lonely. He had
got, also, ink and pens and paper, so that he
could keep a diary; and he set up a large
wooden cross, on which he cut with his knife
the date of his landing on the island—
30th September 1659; and every day he cut a
notch on the post, with a longer one each
Sunday, so that he might always know how
the months and years passed.
As for food, he found that there were many
goats on the island, and numbers of pigeons,
and he had no difficulty in shooting as many
as he needed.
But now he saw that his tent and cave
were too small for all the things he had
stowed in them, so he began to make
the cave bigger, bringing out all the rock and
soil that he cut down, and making with it a
kind of terrace round the inside of his
stockade. And as he was sure that there
were no wild beasts on the island to harm
him, he went on tunnelling to the right hand
till he broke through the rock outside his
fence.
Then he began to hang things up against
the side of the cave, and he even made
shelves, and a door for the outside entrance.
This was a very difficult job, and took him
a long time; for, to make a board, he was
forced to cut down a whole tree, and chop
away with his axe till one side was flat, and
then cut at the other side till the board was
thin enough, when he smoothed it with his
adze. But in this way, out of each tree he
would only get one plank. He made for
himself also a table and a chair, and finally
got his castle, as he called it, in very good
order.
With all his care, however, there was one
thing that he forgot, and that was, when
he had made the cave so much bigger, to
prop it, so as to keep the roof from falling
in. And so one day he got a terrible fright,
and was nearly killed, by a huge bit of the
soft rock which fell and buried many of
his things. It took weeks of hard work
afterwards to clear away the fallen rubbish,
and to cut beams strong enough to prop
the roof.
Every day, all this time, he used to climb
up the hill and look around over the lonely
waters, hoping, always hoping, that some
morning he might see the sails of a ship
that would take him home. But none ever
came, and sometimes the tears ran down
his cheeks because of the sorrow he felt
at being so utterly alone. At times even, he
thought in his misery that if only he had
any kind of a boat, it would be better to
sail away, and chance reaching other land,
rather than to stop where he was. By and
by, however, he grew less unhappy, for he
had plenty of work to do.
THE EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE;
AND HOW ROBINSON BUILT A BOAT
Now about this time, when Robinson had
been some months on the island, heavy and
constant rain began to fall, and sometimes
weeks would pass without a single dry day.
He found that instead of there being Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter, as in
England, the seasons in his island were
divided into the wet and the dry. There
was no cold weather, no winter. It chanced
that just before this first rain began,
Robinson had emptied out some refuse from
bags which had once held rice, and other
grain, and he had forgotten all about having
emptied them. So he was very much
astonished to find, some time afterwards,
both barley and rice growing near his tent,
22
EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE 23
in the shade of the rock. The ears, when
ripe, he kept to sow again, and from this
very small beginning, in the course of a
few seasons, he had a great quantity of
grain, both for food and for sowing. But
this meant every year much hard work, for
he had no plough nor harrow, and all the
ground had to be dug with a clumsy spade,
made from a very hard, heavy wood that
grew on the island.
At first Robinson could not grind the
grain that he grew, nor make bread from it.
If he could have found a large stone, slightly
hollow on top, he might, by pounding the
grain on it with another round stone, have
made very good meal. But all the stones
he could find were too soft, and in the end
he had to make a sort of mill of hard wood,
in which he burnt a hollow place, and on
that he pounded the grain into meal with
a heavy stick.
Baking he did by building a big fire, then
raking away the ashes, and putting the dough
on the hot place, covered with a kind of
basin made of clay, over which he heaped
the red ashes. In this way very good bread
can be made.
Before the rainy season was over, and
just after he had finished the fence round
his tent, one day when Robinson was at
work in the cave, all of a sudden the earth
began to fall from the roof, and the strong
props he had put in cracked in a way which
frightened him terribly. At the same time
there was a curious moaning, rumbling noise,
that he could not understand. He rushed
out, and so afraid was he that the roof was
falling in, and that he should be buried, that
he got over the fence and began to run.
But he was even more frightened when
he found that all the ground was shaking.
Then he knew that this was an earthquake.
Three times there came violent shocks;
a huge rock about half a mile away fell with
a great noise like thunder, and the sea was
churned up as if by a whirlwind. Robinson
was sick with the movement of the ground,
and trembling with the dread of being
swallowed by the earth as it cracked and
gaped; and after the noise and shaking were
over, he was too frightened to go back to
his tent, but sat where he was, all the time
expecting another shock.
Suddenly a furious wind began to blow,
tearing up trees by the roots, and lashing
the water till nothing could be seen but
foam and flying spray. The air was full of
branches and leaves torn off by the hurricane,
and birds in hundreds were swept helpless
out to sea. In about three hours, as
suddenly as it had begun, the wind fell,
and there was a dead calm, followed by rain
such as Robinson had never before seen,
which soaked him to the skin, and forced
him to return to the cave, where he sat in
great fear.
For long after this he was very uneasy,
and made up his mind to shift his quarters
as soon as he could find a better place for
his tent. But the earthquake had one good
result, for what remained of the wreck was
again thrown up by the sea, and Robinson
got more things out of it which were useful
to him, and for days he worked hard at that.
One day, too, when he was on his way to
the remains of the ship, he came on a large
turtle, which he killed, and this gave him
plenty of good food, for besides the flesh,
there were, inside the animal, many eggs,
which she had come to the shore to lay in the
sand, as is the habit of turtles, and which
Robinson thought were even better than
hen's eggs.
Now a few days after he had got so wet
in the heavy rain, though the weather was
hot, Robinson felt very cold and shivery,
and had pains all over his body, and at night
he dreamed terrible dreams. The following
day, and many days, he lay very ill with
fever and ague, and hardly knew what he
was doing. So weak was he, that he believed
he was dying, and there was no one to give
him water to quench his thirst, nor to help
him in any way. His only medicine was
rum, in which he had soaked tobacco. It
was very nasty, and made him sick, but it
One day he came on a large turtle
also made him sleep for more than a whole
day and a night, and he woke much better,
and able to walk about a little, though for
a fortnight he was too weak to work. From
this illness he learned not to go out more
than he could help during the rainy season.
When he was again quite strong, Robinson
started to explore the island better than he
had yet done, and he found many things
growing, of which he made great use after-
wards, tobacco, sugar-cane, and all manner
of fruits, amongst them grapes, which he
used to dry to raisins in the sun in great
quantities.
Near the spot where the most fruit grew,
he built a hut, and round it, for safety, he put
a double fence made of stakes cut from some
of the trees near at hand. During the next
rainy season these stakes took root, and
grew so fast that soon nothing of the hut
could be seen from outside the hedge, and it
made so good a hiding-place, that Robinson
cut more stakes of the same kind, and planted
them outside the fence around his first dwell-
ing; and in a year or two that also was quite
hidden from view. The twigs of this tree,
too, were good for making baskets, of which
he had been in great need.
When he had finished all this work, he
started again to go over the rest of the island,
and on his way across, from a hill, the day
being very clear, he saw high land a great
way off over the water, but whether it was
another island, or the coast of America, he
could not be sure.
When he reached the other side of his
island Robinson found the beach covered
with turtles in astonishing numbers, and he
thought how much better off he would have
been if he had been cast ashore here, for not
only would the turtles have supplied him
with plenty of food, but there were far more
birds than on the part of the island where he
had been living, and far more goats.
During the journey back to his castle he
caught a young parrot, which, after a long
time, he taught to speak and to call him by
his name. It was so long since he had heard
HOW HE BUILT A BOAT 20
any voice, that it was a comfort to listen even
to a parrot talking.
Now, the sight which Robinson had had of
the far distant land raised in him again the
great longing to get away from this island
where he had been so long alone, and he
wished greatly for a boat. He went over to
the remains of the boat in which he and the
others had tried to come ashore when their
ship struck on the sand-bank, and which had
been flung far up on the beach by the sea,
and he worked for weeks trying to repair her
and to get her into the water. But it was all
of no use; he could not move her.
Then, he thought, 'I'll cut down a tree,
and make a new boat.' This he fancied would
be easy, for he had heard how the Indians
make canoes by felling a tree and burning
out the inside. 'If they can do it, then surely
I can do it even better,' he thought. So he
looked about, and chose a huge tree which
stood about a hundred yards from the water,
and with great labour in about three weeks
he had cut it down.
Four months Robinson worked at this
boat, thinking all the time of what he would
do when he reached the far distant land, and
much pleased with himself for the beautiful
boat he was making. Day after day he
trimmed and shaped it, and very proud he
was when it was finished and lay there on
the ground, big enough to carry twenty men.
Then he started to get her into the water.
But that was quite another thing. By no
means in his power could he move her an
inch, try as he might. She was far too big.
Then he began to dig a canal from the sea
to the boat; but before he had got much of
that work done, he saw clearly that there was
so much earth to dig away, that, without
some one to help him, it must take years and
years before he could get the water to the
boat . So he gave it up, and left her to lie
and rot in the sun and the rain,—a great grief
to him.
ROBINSON BUILDS A SECOND BOAT, IN
WHICH HE IS SWEPT OUT TO SEA
By the time that Robinson had been four
years on the island, all his clothes had become
very ragged, and he had hardly anything
that could be called a hat. Clothes he must
have, for he could not go naked without
getting his skin blistered by the hot sun, and
he was afraid of getting a sunstroke if he
went about without a hat.
Now he had kept all the skins of the goats,
and other animals, such as hares and foxes,
that he had shot; and from these, after many
failures, at last he made a hat and coat of
goatskin, and a pair of short trousers, all
with the hair outside, so as to shoot off the
wet when it rained. The hat was very tall,
31
and came to a sharp peak on top, and it had
a flap which hung down the back of his neck.
Robinson also, with much trouble, made of
the skins an umbrella which he could open
and shut; and if his clothes and his umbrella,
and especially his hat, were not very good to
look at, they were useful, and he could now
go about in any weather.
During the next five years nothing out of
the common happened, and Robinson's time
was mostly taken up with the getting of
food, the yearly sowing and reaping of his
crops, and the curing of his raisins. But
towards the end of that time he made another
attempt to build a boat, and this time he
made one much smaller than the first, and
though it took him nearly two years to finish,
in the end he got her into the sea. She was
not big enough for him to try to sail in to
the far-off land that he had seen, and he
used her only for cruising about the shores
of his own island, and for fishing. In her
he fixed a little mast, on which he rigged a
small sail, made from a bit of one of the old
BUILDS A SECOND BOAT 33
ship's sails, and, using a paddle to steer
with, he found that she sailed very well.
Over the stern he fixed his big umbrella, to
shade him from the sun, like an awning.
Eager to go all round the island, one day
Robinson put a lot of food on board, and,
taking his gun, started on a voyage. All
went well till he came to the east end of the
island, where he found that a ledge of rocks,
and beyond that a sand-bank, stretched out to
sea for eight or nine miles. Robinson did not
ike the idea of venturing so far in a boat so
small, and he therefore ran the boat ashore,
and climbed a hill, to get a good view of the
rocks and shoals before going near them.
From the hill, he saw that a strong current
was sweeping past the sand-bank, which
showed just clear of the water, and on which
the sea was breaking; but he thought there
was an eddy which would swing him safely
round the point, without bringing him near the
breakers. However, that day and the next,
there was a good deal of wind blowing in the
direction contrary to the current, which, of
course, raised a sea too big for a small boat,
so Robinson stopped on shore where he was.
On the third day it was calm, and he set
off. But no sooner had he come abreast ot
the sand-bank than he found himself in very
deep water, with a current running like a
mill-race, which carried the boat further and
further away from the land, in spite of all that
he could do with his paddle. There was no
wind, and the sail was useless.
Now he gave himself up for lost, for the
harder he worked, only the further away
seemed the boat to be swept. The island
was soon so far off that Robinson could
hardly see it, and he was quite exhausted
with the hard struggle to paddle the boat
against the current . He was in despair, and
giving up paddling, left the boat to drift
where she would. Just then a faint puff of
wind touched his cheek, and Robinson
hurriedly hoisted his sail. Soon a good
breeze blew, which carried him past a
dangerous reef of rocks. Here the current
seemed to divide, the part in which he now
was began to swing round towards the island,
and he plucked up heart again, and with his
paddle did all he could to help the sail.
Robinson felt like a man who is set free after
he has been told that he must die; he could
almost have wept for joy. Miles and miles
he sailed, steadily getting nearer to the land,
and late in the evening at last he got ashore,
but on the other side of the point that he had
tried to round in the morning. He drew up
his boat on the shore of a little cove that he
found, and when he had made her fast, so that
the tide could not carry her away, there
amongst the trees he lay down, and slept
sound, quite worn out.
In the morning he again got on board, and
coasted along close inshore, till he came to a
bay with a little river running into it, which
made a very good harbour for the boat.
Here he left her, and went on foot
.
Soon he found that he was not far from a
spot that he had once before visited, and by
afternoon he arrived at the hut which he
called his country-house. Robinson got over
the fence by the ladder, as usual, pulling it up
after him, and then he lay down to rest in the
shade, for he was still very weary from the
hard work of the day before. Soon he fell
asleep. But what was his surprise in a little
time to be awakened by a voice calling,
'Robin! Robin Crusoe! where are you?'
At first he thought he was dreaming.
But still the voice went on calling:
'Where are you, Robin?'
Up he jumped, trembling with fright and
wonder, for it was so long since he had heard
any voice but his own that he fancied it must
be something more than human that he now
listened to. But no sooner had he risen than
he saw, sitting on a tree near to him, his
parrot, which must have flown all the way
from Robinson's other house, where he had
been left. It was talking away at a great
rate, very excited at again seeing its master,
and Robinson hardly knew whether to be
more relieved or disappointed that it was only
the bird that had called him.
For about a year after this Robinson kept
to his own side of the island, and employed
his time chiefly in working on his land, and
in making dishes and pots of clay. These
he had now learned to burn properly. Pipes,
too, he made, and they were a great comfort
to him, for he managed to cure very good
tobacco from the wild plants that grew
around. And as he feared lest his powder
might begin to run short, he thought much
over ways whereby he could trap goats for
food, instead of shooting them. After many
trials, the best plan, he decided, was to dig
holes, which he covered with thin branches
and leaves, on which he sprinkled earth,
so that when anything heavy passed over,
it must fall into the pit. By this means
he caught many, and the kids he kept and
tamed, so that in no great time he had quite
a large herd of goats. These he kept in
various small fields, round which from time
to time he had put fences.
D
ROBINSON SEES A FOOTPRINT ON THE
SAND, AND FINDS TRACES OF
CANNIBAL FEASTS
All this time Robinson had never gone near
his canoe, but now the longing came on him
to go over to where he had left her, though
he felt that he should be afraid again to put
to sea in her. This time, however, when he
got to the hill from which he had watched
the set of the current the day that he had
been carried out to sea, he noticed that there
was no current to be seen, from which he
concluded that it must depend on the ebb
and flow of the tide. Still, he was afraid to
venture far in the canoe, though he stopped
some time at his country-house, and went
out sailing very often.
One day when Robinson was walking along
the sand towards his boat, suddenly, close to
38
A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND 39
the water, he stopped as if he had been shot,
and, with thumping heart, stood staring in
wonder and fear at something that he saw.
The mark of a naked foot on the sand! It
could not be his own, he knew, for the shape
was quite different. Whose could it be?
He listened, he looked about, but nothing
could he hear or see. To the top of a rising
ground he ran, and looked all around. There
was nothing to be seen. And though he
searched everywhere on the beach for more
footmarks, he found none.
Whose footprint could it be? That of
some man, perhaps, he thought, who might
come stealing on him out from the trees, or
murder him whilst he slept
Back to his house he hurried, all the way
in a state of terror, starting every now and
again and facing round, thinking he was
being followed, and fancying often that a
stump or a bush was a man, waiting to
spring on him. That night he slept not at
all, and so shaken was his nerve that every
cry of a night bird, even every sound made
by an insect or a frog, caused him to start
with fear, so that the perspiration ran down
his brow.
As day followed day, however, and nothing
happened, Robinson began to be less un-
easy in his mind, and went about his usual
work again. But he strengthened the fence
round his castle, and cut in it seven small
loop-holes, in which, fixed on frames, he
placed loaded muskets, all ready to fire if he
should be attacked. And some distance
from the outside of the fence he planted a
thick belt of small stakes, so that in a few
years' time a perfect thicket of trees and
bushes hid all trace of his dwelling.
Years passed quietly, and nothing further
happened to disturb Robinson, or to make
him think more of the footprint that had
frightened him so much. But he kept more
than formerly to the interior of the island,
and lost no chance of looking for good places
to hide in, if he should ever need them. And
he always carried a cutlass now, as well as
his gun and a couple of pistols.
He saw the mark of a naked foot on the sand
CANNIBAL FEASTS 41
One day it chanced, however, that he had
gone further to the west of the island than
he had ever done before, and, looking over
the sea, he fancied that he saw, at a great
distance, something like a boat or a long
canoe, but it was so far off that he could not
be sure what it was. This made him
determine that always in future he would
bring with him to his lookout-place the
telescope which he had saved from the
wreck.
The sight of this supposed boat brought
back his uneasiness to some extent, but he
went on down to the beach, and there he
saw a sight which filled him with horror.
All about the shore were scattered men's
skulls and bones, and bits of burnt flesh, and
in one place were the remains of a big fire.
Robinson stood aghast, feeling deadly sick.
It was easy for him to know the meaning
of the terrible sight. It meant that cannibals
had been there, killing and eating their
prisoners; for when the natives of some
parts of the world go to war, and catch any
of 'their enemies, it is their habit to build
a fire, then to kill the prisoners and feast on
their roasted bodies, eating till they can
eat no more. Sometimes, if the man they
are going to eat is too thin, they keep him,
and feed him up, till they think he is fat
enough.
Now Robinson knew all this, though he
had never yet met any cannibals. And
when he looked around he saw many bones
lying about. They were so old that it seemed
certain to him that all those years he had
been living on an island which was a regular
place for the natives to come to for such
feasts. Then he saw what a mercy it was
that he had been wrecked on the other side
of the island, to which, he supposed, the
cannibals never came, because the beach was
not so good for them to land on.
Full of horror, Robinson hurried back
to his house, and for almost two years he
never again came near that part of the
island where the bones lay, nor ever visited
his boat. But all the time he kept thinking
how he might some day kill those cannibals
whilst they were at their feast, and perhaps
save some of the poor men whom they had
not yet killed. Sometimes he thought of
putting powder below the place where they
were likely to light their fire, and thus blow
them up. But that did not seem a very good
plan, because he did not want to waste his
powder, and may be they might not light
the fire on that spot, or they might not
be near when it exploded. So he looked
for a place where he could hide, near where
the bones lay, and at last he found a
good spot, from which he could watch them
land. Near this spot were trees, through
which he could creep up quite close to them,
unseen, and so shoot without danger of
missing. And it was his plan, that if he
should happen to see the savages next time
they came over for one of their horrible
feasts, he would lie hidden till a good
chance came, then shoot as many as he
could with his gun and pistols, and after-
wards with his cutlass rush upon those that
were left. In this way he counted on being
able to kill them all, even if there were as
many as twenty, for they would be taken
by surprise, and in the confusion might not
be able to get at their spears and clubs.
When he had made this plan, Robinson
was so pleased with it that for a time he
could think of little else, and every day he
would walk three miles to his lookout-hill,
and watch through his telescope for signs
of canoes coming over the sea towards
the island. But after two or three months
without result, he grew tired of it. Never
a speck was to be seen on the water in any
direction, and he began to go less and less
often to the lookout-hill, and then gave up
going altogether. Perhaps too, he thought,
it was no business of his; the savages did
not know any better, and were only doing
what their fathers had taught them to do.
It was the custom in these savage lands,
and Robinson came to think, finally, that
he had no right to interfere, unless they
first attacked him. He argued also that if
he did attack, and it chanced that he did not
kill them all, that even only one got away,
for certain that man would tell his tribe as
soon as he got home, and they would come
over in hundreds to murder Robinson in
revenge for the death of those he had killed.
And no doubt they would eat him, the
thought of which was very dreadful.
On the whole, therefore, it seemed to him
wisest to keep away altogether from that
part of the beach, and to hide as well as he
could all traces of any one living on the
island. So, except to take away and con-
ceal his boat, for more than another year
he never went back to that spot. The boat,
with her mast and sail and paddle, and a
sort of little anchor he had made for her,
he took to the farthest east end of the island.
He was sure the savages would never
come there in their canoes, because of the
strong current that usually swept past the
rocks; and he left her safely moored in a
little bay, under the shelter of some high
rocks.
More than ever now, Robinson kept to his
two houses, and seldom left them, except
to go to a deep valley he had found, through
which ran a little stream of water as clear
as crystal, and in which he now kept most
of his goats, secured by a fence built all
round the valley. He almost gave up firing
his gun, lest it should bring the savages to
find out the cause of the noise; and for the
same reason he feared even to chop wood
or to drive a nail. He was particularly
careful, too, never to make a fire during
the day, for nothing is so easily seen from a
distance as smoke, and it would certainly
bring the savages on him, if they were on
the island, or anywhere near it.
So, when he needed a big fire, as he did
often when burning the clay dishes and
pots which he made, he would generally
light it during the night. But sometimes
in the day-time he would light it in the
valley, where the smoke would not show so
plainly against the sky or the dark trees,
owing to the hollow being deep, and in the
very middle of the island.
Presently, he began to make charcoal, by
burning wood under earth and turf, and this
charcoal he often took home to his house to
use for cooking his food, because charcoal
makes no smoke.
ROBINSON FINDS A CAVE; HEARS GUNS
FIRED BY A SHIP IN DISTRESS
Now one day when Robinson was down in
the bottom of the valley, cutting thick
branches to burn for charcoal, he cleared
away some undergrowth at the foot of a great
rock, in which, near the ground, there was a
sort of hole, or opening. Into this hole
Robinson squeezed, not very easily, and
found himself in a cave of good size, high
enough, at least, to stand up in. It was
quite dark, of course, to him coming in from
the sunlight, and he turned his back to the
entrance to feel his way further in, when
suddenly, from the back of the cave he saw
two great fiery eyes glaring at him. His
very hair bristled with fright, for he could
48
FINDS A CAVE 40
only think that it must be the Devil at least
that he saw; and through the mouth of the
cave he fled with a yell.
But when he got into the bright sun-
shine he began to feel ashamed of his panic,
and to reason with himself that what he had
seen must be only his own fancy. So, taking
up a big burning branch from his fire, in he
went again.
Before Robinson had taken three steps he
stopped, in almost as great a fright as at
first . Close to him he heard a great sigh, as
if of some one in pain, then a sound like a
muttering, as of words that he could not
understand; again another deep sigh. Cold
sweat broke out all over him, and he stepped
back trembling, yet determined this time
not to run away.
Holding his torch well over his head, he
looked around, and there on the floor of the
cave lay a huge old he-goat, gasping for
breath, dying, seemingly of mere old age.
He stirred him with his toe to see if he
could get him out of the cave, but the poor
beast could not rise, and Robinson left him
to die where he was.
Now that he had got over his fright,
Robinson looked carefully about him. The
cave was small, not more than twelve feet
across at its widest, but he noticed at the far
end another opening. This was so low down,
however, that he had to creep on his hands
and knees to get in, and without a better light
than the burning torch, he could not see how
far it went. So he made up his mind to
come again.
Robinson had long before this made a good
supply of very fair candles from the tallow of
the goats he had killed, and next day he
returned to the cave with six of these, and
his tinder-box to light them with. In those
days there were no matches, and men used
to strike a light with a flint and steel, and
tinder, which was a stuff that caught fire
very easily from a spark.
Entering the cave, Robinson found, on
lighting a candle, that the goat was now dead.
Moving it aside, to be buried later, he went
down on his hands and knees, and crawled
about ten yards through the small passage,
till at last he found himself in a great
chamber, the roof of which was quite twenty
feet high. On every side the walls reflected
the light of his candle, and glittered like gold,
or almost like diamonds, he thought. The
floor was perfectly dry and level, even on the
walls there was no damp, and Robinson was
delighted with his discovery. Its only draw-
back was the low entrance; but, as he decided
to use the cave chiefly as a place to retreat
to if he should ever be attacked, that was
in reality an advantage, because one man,
if he had firearms, could easily defend it
against hundreds.
At once Robinson set about storing in it all
his powder, except three or four pounds, all
his lead for making bullets, and his spare
guns and muskets. When moving the
powder, he thought he might as well open a
barrel which had drifted ashore out of the
wreck after the earthquake, and though
water had got into it, there was not a great
deal of damage done, for the powder had
crusted on the outside only, and in the inside
there was about sixty pounds weight, quite
dry and good. This, with what remained of
the first lot, gave him a very large supply,
enough to last all his life.
For more than two-and-twenty years
Robinson had now been in the island, and he
had grown quite used to it, and to his manner
of living. If he could only have been sure
that no savages would come near him, he
felt almost that he would be content to spend
all the rest of his days there, to die at last, as
the goat he found in the cave had died, of
old age.
It was near the end of the month of
December, his harvest time, and Robinson
used then to be much out in his fields even
before daylight. One morning, being anxious
to finish cutting the crop, he had left his
house even earlier than usual, long before
the stars had ceased to shine or the first
flush of dawn had showed in the sky, and
as he crossed the higher lying ground
between his castle and the cornfield, it
chanced that he glanced in the direction of
the sea.
There, on the shore, to his great horror on
his own side of the island, he saw a fire burn-
ing, and he knew that this could only have
been lit by the cannibals, who had once
more landed.
Straight back to his castle he ran, and
climbed hurriedly over the fence, pulling the
ladder up after him. Quickly he loaded all
his muskets and pistols, ready to defend
himself to the last gasp, for he was sure
that, if these savage men should happen to
see his crops growing in the fields, they
would know that some one was living on
the island, and would never rest till they found
him.
But when Robinson had waited some
time without anything happening, he could
bear the suspense no longer. Taking the
telescope, he put his ladder against the rock
where there was a flat ledge, and climbing
up to this, pulled the ladder after him, and
E
again resting it there, so climbed to the top
of the rock, where he lay down and looked
eagerly through the glass.
There were no less than nine savages, he
saw, all sitting round the fire, cooking some-
thing, but what it was that they cooked he
could not tell, though it was not difficult to
guess.
After a time they began a kind of dance
round the fire, all of them stark naked, and
Robinson watched them at this for nearly
two hours.
The cannibals had two canoes, which were
hauled up on the shore, and as it was then
low water he fancied they must be waiting
for the tide to rise again. And so it turned
out, for when the tide had been flowing for a
time, they shoved off, jumped on board, and
paddled away.
As soon as Robinson was sure that they
were really gone, he went with all his speed
to the hill from where, first of all, long
ago, he had seen signs of savages, and
looking through his glass, he saw three more
canoes at sea, all paddling away from the
island. On going down to the shore, there he
saw a dreadful sight. Skulls, bits of flesh,
and bones, lay about, and fresh blood was
everywhere, hardly yet soaked into the sand.
This awful sight so horrified and roused
Robinson that once more he determined,
whenever the next chance came, to attack
the cannibals, however many there might be,
and kill all that he could. But always, for
long after, he lived in great uneasiness, never
sure that at any moment he might not be
taken by surprise. Often he wished the
time had come when he could run at them;
for suspense is always harder to bear than
any action, however dangerous.
But many months went by, and no
savages were seen, and nothing disturbed
Robinson except dreadful dreams, from
which in the night he often started out of his
sleep, crying out and struggling, thinking
that the savages were trying to kill him.
About the middle of the following May, one
day there came a very great storm, with
much thunder and lightning and rain, and
during the night the wind blew a perfect
hurricane. Robinson was sitting listening
to the roaring of the wind, and sometimes
reading the Bible which he had found in one
of the seamen's chests, for he could not sleep.
Suddenly he was startled by a kind of dull
thud that seemed to shake the very air, such
a thud as you might hear if something very
heavy, but soft, fell on the floor of a room
upstairs. And this noise was followed in about
a minute by another thud. This time he could
hear plainer, and he knew that the sounds
were those of big guns fired at sea, and that
they must come from some ship in danger,
and signalling for help, perhaps to some
other vessel.
Robinson ran out, and climbing up his
ladder, got to the top of the rock in time to
see the flash of another gun, away towards
the reef of rocks at the end of the island.
If he was not able to help the people on
board the vessel, they might yet, if they were
saved, help him, so he collected all the dry
SHIP IN DISTRESS 57
wood he could get, and making a great pile,
set fire to it, as a signal to the ship that there
was some one on the island. And he was
sure that the signal was seen, for as soon as
it blazed up another gun was fired; then gun
after gun, for some time.
Robinson kept his fire blazing all night,
and when daylight came, and the storm
cleared off, he thought he could see, away to
the east, something which looked like a ship.
He fancied she was at anchor, for she never
moved. But the distance was too great, and
the weather too thick for him to be sure if
it was a ship at all that he saw.
Later in the day, when the weather had
cleared, on going up the hill from which, long
ago, he had watched the current sweeping
past the rocks, he could see plainly that there
was a vessel, but, to his sorrow, that she was
a wreck, fast on the reef where, the day he
was carried out to sea, he had found the
current divide.
Without doubt the crew must have
perished. And it filled Robinson with sad-
ness and great grief to think how near he
had been perhaps to fellow countrymen, and
how not even one had been spared to
come ashore. His whole soul yearned for
the sight of a white man, some one to whom
he could speak. But all that ever he saw of
the crew, except what he afterwards found
on the ship itself, was the body of a boy,
which drifted on shore at the end of the
island nearest the wreck; and he could not
tell from the few clothes that were on the
body to what nation the boy had belonged.
In his pockets were two gold coins, and a
tobacco pipe, and the last at least was of use
to Robinson.
ROBINSON VISITS THE WRECKED SPANISH
SHIP; RESCUES A PRISONER FROM
THE CANNIBALS
When the weather had again become calm
and settled, Robinson was greatly tempted
to venture out in his boat to the wreck, in
spite of the narrow escape he had had before
at that place; but there might still, he thought,
be some one alive on board, and he made up
his mind to risk it. This time he put a
compass in the boat, and great store of food
and water, as much as she could well carry,
and he pushed off, paddling along the shore
till he came near to the end of the sand-bank
where the current ran so strong. And there
his heart failed him. If he once got into that
current, how was he to get out of it again?
And if he were swept out to sea, and a gale
159
of wind sprang up, what chance was there
that his small boat would live through it?
He was so cast down by these thoughts that
he ran the boat ashore and got out.
Going on to a high rock he sat for hours
watching the water, trying to make up his
mind whether to venture to the wreck or not,
when he noticed that the current was now
running in the direction contrary to that in
which it had been flowing the first time he
saw it. This, it occurred to him, must be
caused by the tides, and it seemed likely that
if he chose his time, the current going one
way would carry him close to the wreck, and
that caused by the next tide would help him
back again.
This seemed so simple and easy that he
determined to risk it next day. Sleeping
that night in the canoe, early in the morning
he started, and in little more than two hours
safely reached the wreck, without any
trouble.
She was a pitiful sight,—Spanish, he
judged, from her build. She was lying on
WRECKED SPANISH SHIP 61
the reef, jammed fast between two rocks, the
after part of her all stove in by the sea. Her
main and foremasts had gone over the side
when she struck, and hung about the wreck
in a tangle of rigging and spars. Her bul-
warks, and rails, and the poop ladders, were
all gone, and part of one boat still hung on
the davits, torn away by the furious sea
before the crew could attempt to lower it.
On board, there was no living thing except
a dog, which yelped when it saw Robinson
coming, and jumped into the sea, and swam
eagerly to him when he spoke to it. Poor
beast! It was almost dead from thirst
Robinson gave it water, and food, and it
drank till he was almost afraid it might
burst itself.
After this, Robinson boarded the wreck,
and the first thing he saw was two men
lying in the cook's galley, dead, held fast in
each other's arms. Beyond this, there was
no trace of any human being, and the cargo,
whatever it might have been, had mostly been
washed out of the wreck by the sea. There
were still a few casks of brandy, or wine, low
down in the hold, but they were too heavy
for Robinson to move.
Some chests there were in the forecastle,
which most likely had belonged to some of
the crew. Two of these Robinson got into
his boat, along with a small cask of liquor,
and other things; a powder-horn full of
powder, a fire-shovel and tongs (which he
had always much needed), two little brass
kettles, a copper pot, and a gridiron.
These, and the dog, were all that he got
from the wreck. The dog was a great
comfort to him, for the animal he had
brought ashore from his own ship had now
been dead many years.
Except what he found in the seamen's
chests, there was nothing of value in the
cargo he brought ashore. In the chests
were many things that he prized, linen
shirts, handkerchiefs, and coloured neck-
cloths, pots of sweetmeats, a case of bottles
of cordial waters, very handsomely mounted
with silver, and, what then was of less value
to him, three great bags of gold pieces,
besides gold doubloons, and bars of gold.
But all this gold he would gladly have given
then for a few pairs of English shoes and
stockings, for it was of no use at all to him
on the island. However, he stowed all the
money and the gold in his cave, along with
the other things, and then returned and
worked his boat along shore to the harbour
where he had kept her so long.
But the sight of the wrecked ship and
the drowned men had filled him again with
the longing to go away, and if he had had
as good a boat as that in which he escaped
from the pirates, he thought that he would
have waited no longer on the island, but
would have put to sea in her, and taken his
chance of reaching some land where white
men dwelt. With the frail craft that he
had, however, such a plan was not possible,
and he had no choice but to go on living
as he had already so long lived, ail the time
in daily fear of a raid by the savages.
And yet, at times, when his spirits were
more than usually low, when the burden of
the lonely years pressed most heavily upon
him, Robinson used to think that surely if
the savages could come to his land, he could
go to theirs. How far did they come?
Where was their country? What kind
of boats had they? And so eager to go
was he sometimes, that he forgot to think
of what he would do when he got there, or
what would become of him if he fell into the
hands of the savages. His mind was utterly
taken up with the one thought of getting
to the mainland, and even his dreams were
of little else.
One night, when he had put himself almost
into a fever with the trouble of his mind,
he had lain long awake, tossing and moan-
ing, but at last he had fallen asleep. And
he dreamed, not as he had usually done of
late, that he was sailing to the mainland,
but that as he was leaving his castle in the
morning he saw on the shore two canoes
and eleven savages landing, and that they
had with them another man, whom they
The harbour where he had kept his boat so long
RESCUES A PRISONER 65
were just about to kill and eat, when
suddenly the prisoner jumped up and ran
for his life. And in his dream Robinson
fancied that the man came running to hide
in the thicket round the castle, and that
thereupon he went out to help him. Then
in the dream, the savage kneeled down, as
if begging for mercy, and Robinson took
him over the ladder into the castle, saying
to himself, 'Now that I 've got this fellow,
I can certainly go to the mainland, for he
will show me what course to steer, and where
to go when we land.' And he woke, with
the joyful feeling that now at last all was
well. But when he was wide awake, and
knew that it was only a dream after all,
poor Robinson was more cast down than
ever, and more unhappy than he had
been during all the years he had lived on
the island.
The dream had, however, this result; that
he saw his only plan to get away was, if
possible, to rescue some day one of the
prisoners whom the cannibals were about
to kill, and in time get the man to help him
to navigate his canoe across the sea.
With this idea, he set himself to watch,
more closely than ever he had done before,
for the savages to land, and during more
than a year and a half he went nearly every
day to his lookout-place, and swept the sea
with his telescope, in the hope of seeing
canoes coming. But none came, and Robin-
son was getting terribly tired of the constant
watch. Still he did not give up, for he knew
that sooner or later the savages would land
again.
Yet many months passed, and still they
did not come, till one morning, very early,
almost to his surprise, he saw no fewer than
tive canoes hauled up on the shore on his
own side of the island. The savages who
had come in them were nowhere to be seen.
Now, he knew that always from four to six
men came in each canoe, which meant that
at least twenty, and perhaps as many as
thirty men had landed.
This was a greater number than he cared
to face, so he kept inside his castle, in great
doubt what to do, but ready to fight, in case
they should attack him.
When he had waited a long time and
still could hear nothing of the savages, he
climbed up his ladder and got to the top
of the rock, taking great care not to show
himself against the sky-line. Looking
through his glass, he saw that there were
at least thirty savages, dancing wildly round
afire.
As he looked, some of the men left the
others, and going over to the canoes dragged
from them two prisoners. One of these
almost at once fell forward on his face,
knocked down from behind, as it seemed
to Robinson, with a wooden club, and two
or three of the cannibals at once cut him
open to be ready for cooking, whilst for
a moment or two they left the other prisoner
standing by himself.
Seeing a chance of escape, the man
made a dash for his life, running with
tremendous speed along the sands straight
for that part of the beach near Robinson's
castle.
Now this alarmed Robinson very much,
for it seemed to him that the whole of the
savages started after the prisoner. He
could not help thinking it likely that, as
in his dream, this man would take shelter in
the thicket round the castle, in which case
Robinson was likely soon to have more
fighting than he would relish, for the whole
body of the cannibals would be on him at
once.
As he watched the poor man racing for
life, however, he was relieved to see that
he ran much faster than his pursuers, of
whom only three continued to run after him.
If he could hold out for another mile or two
there was little doubt that he would escape.
Between the castle and the runners was the
creek up which Robinson used to run his
rafts from the wreck, and when the escaped
prisoner came to that, he plunged in, and
though the tide was full, with less than
thirty powerful strokes he reached the other
side, and with long easy strides continued
his run. Of the men in pursuit, two also
plunged in and swam through, but less
quickly than the man escaping, being more
blown with running, because of what they
had eaten before starting. The third man
stopped altogether, and went back the
way he came.
Seeing the turn things were taking, it
seemed to Robinson that now had come his
chance to get a servant, and he resolved to
try to save the life of the man who was
fleeing from the cannibals. At once he
hurried down the ladder, snatched up his
two guns, and running as fast as he could,
got between the man and his pursuers,
calling out to him at the same time to stop.
The man looked back, and the sight of
Robinson seemed to frighten him at first
as much as did the men who were trying
to catch him. But Robinson again spoke,
and signed to him with his hand to come
back, and in the meantime went slowly
towards the other men, who were now
coming near. Then, rushing at the foremost,
he knocked him senseless with the butt of
his gun, for it seemed to him safer not to
fire, lest the noise should bring the other
cannibals around.
The second man, seeing his comrade fall,
hesitated, and stopped, but Robinson saw
when nearer to him that the savage had in
his hands a bow and arrow with which he
was just about to shoot . There was then no
choice but to fire first, which Robinson did,
killing the man on the spot.
Thereupon the man who had been chased
by the others was so terrified by the flash
and noise of the gun, and at seeing his enemy
fall dead, that he stood stock still, trembling,
and it was with great difficulty that Robinson
coaxed him to come near. This at last he
did, stopping every few paces and kneeling
down. At length, coming close to Robinson,
he again knelt, kissed the ground, and taking
hold of Robinson's foot, set it on his head as
it rested on the sand.
Whilst this was going on, Robinson noticed
N
The man knelt and kissed the ground
that the savage whom he had knocked down
had begun to move, and to come to his senses.
To this he drew the attention of the man
whom he had rescued, who said some words
that Robinson could not understand, but
which sounded pleasant to an ear that had
heard no voice but his own for more than
twenty-five years. Next he made a motion
with his hand, as if asking for the cutlass
that hung at Robinson's belt, and when the
weapon was given to him he ran at his enemy,
and with one clean blow cut off his head.
Then, laughing, he brought the head, and
laid it with the cutlass at Robinson's feet.
But what caused most wonder to the man
was how the savage whom Robinson shot
had been killed at so great a distance, and
he went to look at the body, turning it over
and over, and looking long at the wound in
the breast that the bullet had made, evidently
much puzzled.
Robinson then turned to go away, beckon-
ing to the savage to follow, but the man
made signs that he would bury the two
r
bodies in the sand, so that the others might
not find them if they followed. With his
hands he soon scraped holes deep enough to
cover the bodies, and in less than a quarter
of an hour there was hardly a trace left of
what had happened.
Calling him away, Robinson now took him,
not to his castle, but to the cave, where he
gave him food and water; and then he made
signs for him to lie down and rest, pointing
to a bundle of rice straw.
Soon the man was sound asleep. He was,
Robinson thought, a handsome and well-
made man; the muscles of his arms and back
and legs showed great strength, and all his
limbs were beautifully formed. As near as
Robinson could guess, he was about twenty-
six years of age, with a good and manly face,
and long black hair. His nose and lips were
like those of a European, and his teeth were
white and even. In colour he was not black,
but of a sort of rich chocolate brown, the
skin shining with health, and pleasant to look
upon.
HOW ROBINSON TRAINED FRIDAY
Whilst the man slept, Robinson went out
to milk his goats, at which work the savage,
having waked in about half an hour, found
him, and running up, threw himself on the
ground near Robinson's feet, one of which he
again raised as before, and placed on his
head. At the same time he made every kind
of sign of gratitude and submission.
In a little while Robinson began to speak
to him, and to try to teach him things. First,
he made him understand that his name was to
be 'Friday,' (that being the day of the week
when Robinson had saved him from a horrible
death). Then he taught him the meaning of
'Yes,' and 'No,' and to call Robinson,
* Master.'
Friday showed great quickness in learning.
78
He seemed to be happy and contented, and
free from trouble, except that the clothes
which Robinson made him wear gave him at
first great discomfort, for in those warm
parts of the world the natives are not used
to clothes, but always go about naked. And
perhaps they are healthier so, for when rain
comes, they can cover their skin with cocoa-
nut oil, and the wet then runs off their bodies
without chilling them, and they do not catch
cold by wearing damp clothes. Sometimes
they make drooping girdles of the broad
leaves of the banana, which are two or three
feet long, and wear these round their waists;
and sometimes, for ornament, they stick crim-
son flowers behind their ears, or hang them
round their necks. But other clothes they
have none to wear.
And indeed such things would only be in
the way, for the natives who live on the
coasts often pass nearly whole days swim-
ming in the warm sea. They are never afraid
of sharks, for they swim so well and so fast
that often they are able to kill the sharks,
HOW ROBINSON TRAINED FRIDAY 75
diving under them, and stabbing them in the
belly with a knife.
Even the very little children swim almost
before they can walk, and whole families go
out for a day in the sea, as children and their
parents in England might go for a picnic.
One of their games, when a heavy swell is
rolling in, toppling over in cataracts of foam
as the waves reach the shallower water near
the shore, is to swim out, diving through the
broken water, and taking with them a light
plank. On this, when they have got beyond
where the seas break, they mount, and come
rushing in on the crest of the great waves,
shrieking with laughter when any one is
upset. It is glorious fun, they think.
The day following that on which Robinson
had saved Friday, they went out together to
see if there were any signs of the cannibals
still being on the island, but it was evident
that they had gone away without troubling
about the two men whom Robinson had killed.
Round the place where their fire had been,
were horrible remains of bodies, pieces of
flesh half eaten, or charred by the fire, skulls,
hands, and bones of legs and feet. Friday
made Robinson understand that these were
the remains of three prisoners who had been
brought over along with him, to be feasted
on.
Robinson's blood ran cold as he looked,
and the horror of the sight made him sick
and faint. He ordered Friday to collect all
the bodies and other remains, and to build a
fire to burn them, which Friday very cheer-
fully did. To him it was no great matter,
for, of course, all his life he himself had been
a cannibal, and he was quite used to such
scenes. Indeed, when they passed the spot
where the two men had been buried in the
sand, Friday pointed it out to Robinson, and
gave him to understand that he meant to come
back, and dig up and eat the bodies. This
filled Robinson with disgust and rage, and he
let Friday know that he would be severely
punished, perhaps killed, if ever such a thing
was done by him.
For some time Robinson did not trust
Friday, and did not allow him to sleep in the
same part of his castle with himself, out
kept him at night in a little tent outside the
fence. Every night he drew up the ladder,
so that if Friday ever should attempt to get
over, he would be sure to make noise enough
to wake Robinson. Other precautions also
he took, but soon he found that they were
not needed. Friday was quite faithful. And
he was never sulky nor lazy, but always
merry, and ready to do anything that Robinson
cold him. And as time went on, Robinson
did not doubt that if there should ever be
need for it, Friday would risk his life to save
his master.
At first when they went out in the woods
together, Friday was terrified each time that
Robinson's gun was fired. He had never
seen anything put into it, and it was more
than he could understand how things could be
killed merely by the noise and the flash of
fire. It seemed to him that the gun was
some sort of evil spirit that might do him
harm, and it was long before he could be
brought to touch one of them, though when
he was alone Robinson often heard him talk-
ing to them. Afterwards, when he could
speak English better, and knew more about
guns, he told Robinson that he used to ask
them not to kill him.
One thing that Robinson could never teach
Friday was to eat salt with his food. Salt is
a thing that the cannibals do not use, and
some of them, to this day, go so far as to say
that they do not care to eat a white man,
because he is too salt. A native of their own
race, they think, is much sweeter, though of
course they eat only men of a different tribe
whom they may capture during one of their
wars. But the only form in which they take
salt is as sea water, and that they use as
medicine, drinking it in large quantities till it
makes them sick.
Robinson asked Friday if his tribe ever
came to this island, and Friday said that they
did, and that he himself had often come over;
and he told Robinson that on one visit he
and his friends had eaten more than twenty
men. His tribe, he said, was very strong,
and fought well. Thus they took more
prisoners, and used the island oftener than
the other tribes, and it seemed that the far
side of the island, where Robinson had seen
so many remains of feasts, was the part that
Friday's tribe held as their own. Sometimes
other tribes used another island for their
feasts.
It troubled Robinson's mind greatly to hear
what Friday had to say about this custom,
but by little and little, as the weeks went
past, he got him to see how horrible a thing
it was to eat human flesh. From this begin-
ning", Friday gradually came to be in his
habits more like a white man, and teaching
him was a great joy to Robinson, who found
the years after Friday's arrival the happiest
of all that he had lived on the island. Not
only had he now help in his work, but he had
some one to talk to, for want of which, during
the weary years when he was alone, he had
almost forgotten his own tongue.
When they began easily to understand each
other, Robinson asked Friday how far it was
from the island to his country, and if the
canoes were not often lost whilst crossing.
Friday said there was no danger, and that no
canoes were ever wrecked; that always in
the morning the wind and the current set one
way, and the other in the afternoon. This
Robinson thought must have something to
do with the tides, but afterwards he learned
that the change of wind was only the differ-
ence between the sea breeze and the land
breeze, which blow time about, morning and
evening, in those parts. The change in the
current was due to the in-draft and out-draft
of a great river, off whose mouth the island lay.
Friday told Robinson much about his
country, and about his people, who he said
were Caribs. And a great way 'beyond
the moon,' by which he meant to the west,
he said that white men lived who had beards
such as Robinson wore. These white men,
he said, had killed very many natives, from
which Robinson fancied that they must be
Spaniards, who about that time were very
cruel to the people whose countries they had
taken.
Robinson asked if Friday could tell him
how he might get over to where the white
men lived, and Friday said it would be very
easy, if they had a big canoe. And again
Robinson began to make plans and to hope
to escape from the island. He showed
Friday the boat in which he and the crew
had tried to land from the wreck, the remains
of which still lay high up on the shore, out of
reach of the waves of any but a very high
tide, or of a storm worse than common.
Friday looked long at it without speaking,
till Robinson asked what he was thinking of.
Then he said that he had once before seen
such a boat, but for some time he could not
make Robinson understand where, or when,
he had seen it. Robinson thought he meant
that a ship had been driven ashore on the
coast, and that the boat, perhaps, had come
from her. But presently Friday spoke of the
men who had been in the boat, and whom he
and his people had pulled out of the sea.
He counted on his fingers to make Robinson
understand that there had been seventeen of
them.
'Where are they now?' Robinson asked;
and Friday said they still lived with his
tribe.
This put new ideas into Robinson's head,
for he thought that probably these men
might have belonged to the ship whose guns
he had heard, and to which he had after-
wards gone out in his boat as she lay on the
reef.
Friday said that his people had given the
men food, and had not hurt them.
'Why did they not kill and eat them?'
asked Robinson; and again Friday assured
him that they ate men only whom they took
in war.
It was some time after this that Robinson
and Friday chanced to be on the high hill at
the east end of the island. The day was
cloudless and very clear, with a light breeze
rippling the water, just such a day as that on
which, years ago, Robinson had seen land,
far over the sea. Friday gazed long in that
direction, and then began to jump and dance,
pointing to the dim blue coast. 'There my
country! See! There my people live!' he
said, his eyes sparkling with joy, and an
eager light on his face. ,
After this, for a time Robinson was not easy
in his mind about Friday. He had little
doubt that if he could get back to his tribe,
he would soon forget all he had been taught,
all that Robinson had done for him, might
even return, perhaps, with a hundred or two
of his friends, and kill and eat his master.
But in this Robinson was very unjust to
Friday, who had no such thoughts in his
mind as those of which he was suspected.
And this Robinson soon found out. One
day, as they walked up the same hill, he asked
if Friday would not be glad to be once more in
his own land.
1 Yes,' said Friday; 'very glad.'
4 Would you eat men's flesh again?'
'No, never,' said Friday, shaking his head
very much.
Then Robinson asked why he did not go
back. It was too far to swim, said Friday.
Robinson said he would give him a boat, and
Friday said, very well, he would go if Robin-
son came too.
'But your people will eat me,' said
Robinson.
'No, no,' Friday answered; 'you good to
me. They good to you.'
Robinson had then more than half a mind
to go, for if he could join the other white men,
he thought there would be a better chance
to build a boat big enough to sail in to
England.
So he took Friday to the place where he
kept the small canoe he had made, and
quickly he found that he was a very much
better boatman than Robinson himself, and
could make her go through the water nearly
twice as fast as Robinson was able to do.
But when Robinson asked if they might
try to go over in that boat, Friday's face fell.
She was too small, he said. Robinson then
showed him the first boat he had built, and
which had been lying on the sand now for more
than twenty-two years. That, Friday said,
was big enough. But the heat of the sun
by this time had so warped and cracked
her that, even if they could have got her into
the sea, she would not have floated.
Then Robinson told Friday that he would
build him a bigger boat, and send him home
in it, but that he himself would remain on
the island alone, as he had been before.
The poor lad's feelings were hurt at this,
and he asked, 'Why you angry mad with
Friday? Suppose master go, Friday go!
Suppose master no go, Friday no go!' And
he brought a hatchet, and said, 'You kill
Friday 1 not send him away.' Robinson was
much touched by this devotion, and after-
wards always had perfect faith in him.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A LARGE
BOAT; THEY RESCUE TWO PRISONERS
FROM THE CANNIBALS
But still the wish to leave the island was
as strong as ever, and together he and
Friday went to work to fell a tree from
which to build a boat good enough for their
voyage to the mainland. Friday soon
showed that he knew far better than
Robinson the kind of tree best suited for
boat-making, though he knew less about
hollowing it out; for he had never seen
tools suitable for such work. Friday pro-
posed to burn out the inside, but Robinson
showed him how to use the tools, and soon
he was very handy with them.
It took the two of them little more than a
THEY BUILD A LARGE BOAT 87
month to finish the boat. And very hand-
some she looked, and very proud of her they
were. But it cost them quite a fortnight of
very hard work to get her into the water.
Below her they had to put large wooden
rollers, and then with strong sticks, inch by
inch, they levered and pushed her into the
sea, where she floated, very trim and ship-
shape, big enough to carry a dozen men.
Robinson was astonished at Friday's skill
in paddling so large a canoe. She seemed
to fly through the water, and he could turn
her with great ease.
• Will she do to go over in ? * he asked, and
Friday, grinning, said, 'Yes, even if big wind
blow.'
But Robinson did not mean to depend only
on paddling. He made Friday cut down a
straight young pine-tree for a mast, and
amongst the old ship's sails that he had kept
so long he found at last two pieces that were
not rotten. From these he made what is
called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and a small
foresail. It took him nearly two months to
cut and fit them, but when they were finished
and hoisted they acted very well, and when a
clumsy rudder had been fixed to the boat, he
found that she steered nicely, and was quite
safe and stiff in a fresh breeze.
Friday knew nothing- of sailing, and was
astonished to see the boat go so fast, but he
quickly learned to handle her quite as well as
Robinson could do. The only thing he could
not learn was how to steer by compass.
Six-and-twenty years had passed since
Robinson came to the island, and though
his hope of getting away was now great, he
still went on digging and sowing and fencing
as usual, and picking and curing his raisins,
in case by any chance he should still have to
stop where he was.
As the rainy season was nearly due, he
made Friday dig near the creek a kind of
dock in the sand for the new boat, just deep
enough for her to float in; and when the tide
was low, they made a dam across the end of
the dock to keep the water out. Then they
covered the boat over very thickly with boughs
V
of trees; and there she lay, quite dry and snug,
till the end of the wet weather, when it was
Robinson's plan to start for the mainland.
A week or two before the dry season again
came, Robinson meant to open the dock
and get the boat afloat once more. And to
be ready in plenty of time he began to lay by
a lot of food and other stores for use on the
voyage.
One morning, when he was very busy over
his work, he told Friday to go down to the
beach to see if he could find a turtle. Off
went Friday, but before he had been gone
many minutes, back he came running in a
great hurry, crying out' Master I Master! O
sorrow! O bad!'
'What's the matter, Friday?' asked
Robinson.
'Over yonder,' said Friday, pointing to the
west, and very much scared; 'over yonder,
one, two, three canoe.'
Robinson cheered him as well as he could.
'Well, Friday,' said he, 'we must fight
them. Will you fight?"
'Yes, Friday shoot,' he answered, 'but too
much great many come.'
1 No matter,' said Robinson, 'our guns will
frighten those we don't kill.'
Friday promised to stand by him to the
end, and to do just as he was bid.
Then Robinson loaded two guns with large
swan shot, and gave them to Friday, and
himself took four muskets, which he loaded
carefully with five small bullets and two
slugs each, and in each of his pistols he put
two bullets. Then he hung his cutlass by
his side, and gave Friday a hatchet.
When all was ready, he went up the hill
with his telescope, and saw that there were
in all twenty-one savages, with three pris-
oners. They had landed not far beyond the
creek, near a spot where thick bushes grew
almost down to the sea.
Giving Friday one of the pistols to stick in
his belt, and one of the muskets to carry,
they set off, each of them now armed with a
pistol and three guns, besides Robinson's
cutlass and Friday's hatchet. Robinson put
in his pocket a small bottle of rum, and gave
Friday a bag with more powder and bullets
to carry, and told him to keep very quiet, and
to be sure not to fire till Robinson gave the
word.
To get at the savages without being seen,
they had to go nearly a mile out of their way,
and being heavily laden, they could not go
very fast. During this walk, Robinson
began to argue with himself again, and to
think that perhaps after all it was no busi-
ness of his to go killing savages who had
never done him any harm, and who were
only doing what they and their people had
done for hundreds of years. They knew no
better, he said to himself, and why should he
kill them? His mind was so filled with
doubts, that he did not know what to do.
Finally, he decided that he would only go
near enough to see plainly what the savages
were doing, but that, unless there should be
some special cause for it, he would not attack
them.
When he and Friday got near the place
where the savages had lit their fire, Robin-
son sent Friday forward, to see what
was going on, and to come back and tell
him.
Friday crept on, and returned very quickly,
saying that the cannibals had already killed
one of their prisoners, and were eating him,
and that very soon they would kill the
second prisoner, who was lying near to
them. The second prisoner, Friday said,
was a white man.
This news at once changed Robinson's
plans, and he had no longer any doubt what
to do.
Creeping forward, he saw plainly through
his glass the white man lying bound hand
and foot on the sand. There was another
tree, Robinson noticed, with a clump of
bushes round it, some distance nearer to the
savages, and within very easy shot of-them.
To that he and Friday now crawled.
There was no time to lose, for when they
reached the tree, two of the savages had
gone to the white man, and were untying his
X
ankles. The other cannibals were all sitting
close together.
Turning to Friday, Robinson said in a low
voice,'Now do exactly as I tell you.' They
both took aim at the crowd of savages.
'Are you ready, Friday?' whispered
Robinson.
'Ready,' said Friday.
'Then fire 1*
Robinson's first shot killed one and
wounded two, but Friday's dropped two
dead, and three wounded. Snatching up
fresh guns, both fired again before the
savages who were not hurt could get on
their feet, for they were so taken by surprise
and frightened by the noise, that the poor
wretches hardly knew what was happening.
This time only two dropped, but many more
were wounded by the swan shot, and ran
about yelling till they fell from loss of
blood.
'Now, Friday,' said Robinson, taking up
one of the remaining loaded muskets,' follow
me.' And he rushed out of the wood, with
Friday close behind, and charged down on
the cannibals as fast as he could run.
The two men who had gone to kill the
white prisoner no sooner saw this than they
fled to the canoes, and three of the others
followed, and jumped into the same canoe.
Robinson bade Friday shoot at them, and
Friday, running forward, fired. All the men
in the canoe fell, two of them dead and one
wounded. The others seemed to fall from
fear, for they soon jumped up and paddled
away with all their might.
Whilst Friday kept on firing, Robinson
ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds,
helping him on to his feet, and giving him
some rum from the bottle he had brought.
The man, on being asked what countryman
he was, answered that he was a Spaniard,
and he began to thank Robinson for what he
had done. But Robinson, who could speak
a little Spanish, stopped him, saying, 'Senor,
we will talk afterwards. At present we must
fight' And he gave the Spaniard the cutlass
from his belt and a pistol, telling him, if he
Robinson ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds
had strength left, to go and do what he could
against the savages.
As soon as the man got the weapons in his
hands, he ran with fury at the cannibals and
cut two down, then turned, and with equal
fury attacked the rest.
Robinson now sent Friday for the muskets
which had been left under the tree, and
began quickly to reload them, giving Friday
the musket which he himself had been carry-
ing, but which he had not fired.
Meantime the Spaniard had attacked a
very big, powerful savage who was armed
with a club, and though with his cutlass he
had twice wounded the cannibal in the head,
yet from being bound so long the white man
was weak, and now looked like getting the
worst of it. For the savage, making a rush,
closed with him and threw him, and in the
struggle had nearly wrenched the cutlass
out of his hand, when the Spaniard suddenly
quitting his hold, drew his pistol and shot the
man through the body, killing him on the spot.
The ether natives were now scattered in
every direction, and Friday, running after
them with his hatchet, killed all of them
except one who had been wounded by the
Spaniard, and who, in spite of his wounds,
jumped into the sea and swam out to the
canoe in which were the two others who had
got away.
Friday advised Robinson to take another
of the canoes and go after them; and
Robinson agreed, for he thought that if any
escaped they would be certain to come back,
bringing hundreds of others to avenge the
death of their friends. So the two ran to
the beach and began to shove off a canoe.
But to their surprise, on the bottom of the
canoe lay another prisoner, an old man, tied
so hard, neck and heels, that even when his
bonds were cut he could not move. He
groaned and lay still, perhaps thinking that
he was only being untied to be killed.
Robinson handed the rum to Friday and
told him to pour some down the poor man's
throat, which seemed to revive him, for he
sat up.
No sooner did Friday look at him and
hear him speak, than he began to dance
and shout and laugh, and then kneeling
down, rubbed noses with the savage (which
is what these folks do instead of kissing
each other), and he was so excited that for
some time he could not explain what was
the matter. As soon as he could speak, he
told Robinson that the man whom they had
found was his father. The poor creature's
wrists and ankles were chafed and stiff from
being so long bound, and he was parched
with thirst.
Friday ran and fetched water for him, and
then with rum rubbed his father's wrists and
ankles. Those of the Spaniard also were
so dreadfully cut and swollen, and he was
so worn out with fighting, that Friday had
to carry him on his back to the canoe. Then
he paddled the two men along to the creek,
whilst Robinson walked. But both men
had to be carried up to the castle, and
Robinson was forced to rig up a tent for
them outside, because it was not possible
for him and Friday to lift them over the
fence.
The next day Robinson sent Friday to
bury the bodies of the savages who had
been killed, and to bring in the muskets.
When that was done, he made Friday ask
his father if he thought the savages were
likely to come back. The man said that
he thought they were so frightened by the
way they had been attacked, and by the
noise of the guns and the fire and smoke
coming from them, that they would probably
never return. He said he had heard them
call out that two evil spirits were attacking
them. And it turned out that the old man
was right, for no cannibals were ever again
known to visit this island.
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP; ROBINSON
SAILS FOR HOME
Soon after this Robinson had a long talk
with the Spaniard, who told him how he
and his comrades had been wrecked four
years since, on that part of the coast where
Friday's tribe lived. He said that they were
well treated by the natives, but that they
were put to very great straits now for want
of clothes, that their powder was finished,
and that they had lost all hope of ever getting
back to their own country. He himself, he
said, had been captured in one of the many
small wars that are always taking place
among the various tribes.
It struck Robinson that it might be
possible for him to get these men over to
his island, provided that he could be sure
of their good faith, and that when they
came, they did not take the island from him
by treachery. It was a risk, he thought,
but then, if he got so many men, it would
not be difficult to build a small ship that
could carry them all to England.
So he asked the Spaniard if he would
promise, and if he thought he could get
his comrades to take an oath that, if Robin-
son helped them, they would look on him
as their captain, and would swear to obey
him in all things. The Spaniard readily
promised for himself, and said that he was
sure his comrades would keep faith.
It was arranged, therefore, that in about
six months, when the next harvest was
reaped, and there would be plenty of food
for so many extra men, the Spaniard and
Friday's father should go over to the main-
land in one of the canoes which had been
taken from the savages.
Meantime, all hands set about the curing
of very large quantities of raisins, and much
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP 101
other work was done to be in readiness for
the coming: of these men.
When the harvest was reaped, Robinson
gave the Spaniard and Friday's father each
a musket and a supply of powder and
bullets, and loaded the canoe with food,
enough to last them and the others about
a fortnight, and the two men set off for the
mainland in fine weather, and with a fair
wind.
It was about eight days after this, and
when Robinson had begun to look out for
their return, that one morning very early,
when Robinson was asleep, Friday came
running in, shouting, 'Master! master!
They come.' Up jumped Robinson, and
hurrying on his clothes, ran out.
Looking towards the sea, he soon made
out a sailing-boat making for the shore,
coming from the south end of the island,
but still some miles away. This was not
the direction from which the Spaniard and
his comrades would come, nor were they
likely to be in a sailing-boat. So Robinson
took his telescope, and went to the top of
the hill to see if he could make out who
were on board, before they landed.
Hardly had he got on to the hill when he
noticed a ship at anchor some distance from
the shore. She looked like an English
vessel, he thought, and the boat like an
English long-boat.
This was a wonderful sight to Robinson,
but yet he was not easy in his mind. It was
not a part of the world where an English
ship was likely to come, because in those
days they were nearly all Spanish vessels
that traded in these seas, and the English
and Spaniards were bitter enemies. What
could an English ship be doing here? There
had been no storm to drive her out of her
course.
Robinson feared that if she was English
there must be something wrong about her.
Perhaps, he thought, she was a Pirate. So
he was careful not to show himself or
Friday.
Presently, as he watched, he saw the men
What could an English ship be doing here?
in the boat run her ashore and draw her
up on the beach, about half a mile from his
castle. When they had landed, he could
easily see through his glass that they were
Englishmen.
There were eleven men, but three of them
had their hands tied behind their backs, and
were evidently prisoners. When the first
four or five men had jumped ashore, they
brought out these three, all the while ill-
treating them, and behaving as if they
meant to kill their prisoners. Friday was
sure that they meant to eat them.
Soon, without further harming the three
men, the others scattered about amongst
the trees near the shore, leaving the three
sitting on the ground, very sad-looking, but
with their hands now untied.
At the time the boat was run aground, it
was just high-water, and the two sailors
who had been left in charge of her, and who
had evidently been drinking too much rum,
went to sleep, and never noticed that the
tide was going out. When they woke, the
boat was high and dry, and with all the
strength of the whole crew they could not
move her, because the sand at that part of
the beach was very soft. This did not seem
to trouble any of them very much, for
Robinson heard one of the sailors shout,
'Let her alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float
next tide.'
All forenoon Robinson watched, and when
the hottest time of the day had come, he
noticed the sailors throw themselves down
under the trees, and go to sleep, some
distance away from the three prisoners.
Then Robinson and Friday, taking their
muskets and pistols, stole down cautiously
behind the three men, to try to speak to
them without the others knowing.
Robinson had put on his goat-skin coat
and the great hairy hat that he had made for
himself; and with his cutlass and pistols in
his belt, and a gun over each shoulder, he
looked very fierce.
The men did not see him till he spoke,
and they were so startled by his wild look,
and by the sight of two men armed to the
teeth, that they nearly ran away. But
Robinson told them not to be alarmed; he
was an Englishman, and a friend, and would
help them if they would show him how it
could be done.
Then they explained to him what had
happened. One of the three was Captain of
the ship that lay at anchor off the island. Of
the others, one was mate of the ship, and the
third man was a passenger. The crew had
mutinied, the Captain told Robinson, and
had put him and the other two in irons, and
the ring-leaders in the mutiny had proposed
to kill them. Now they meant to leave them
on the island to perish.
The Captain was so astonished at finding
anybody there who proposed to help him,
that he said in his wonder: 'Am I talking to
a man, or to an angel from heaven?'
'If the Lord had sent an angel, sir/ said
Robinson, 'he would probably have come
better clothed.'
Then he asked if the boat's crew had any
firearms, and was told that they had only
two muskets, one of which was left in the
boat. 'The rest should be easy, then,'
Robinson said; 'we can either kill them
all, or take them prisoners, as we please.'
The Captain was unwilling to see the men
killed, for he said if two of the worst of them
were got rid of, he believed the rest would
return to their duty.
Robinson made a bargain that if he saved
the Captain from the mutineers, and re-
covered the ship, he and Friday were to
be taken home to England in her, free of
cost; and to this the Captain and the others
agreed.
Then Robinson gave eack of them a musket,
with powder and ball, after which the Captain
and the mate and the passenger marched
towards the spot where the mutinous sailors
lay asleep. One of the men heard them
advance, and turning round, saw them, and
cried out to his companions. But it was too
late, the mate and the passenger fired, and
one of the ring-leaders fell dead. A second
-
man also fell, but jumped up immediately
and called to the others to help him. But
the Captain knocked him down with the butt
of his musket, and the rest of the men, seeing
Robinson and Friday coming, and knowing
that they had no chance against five armed
men, begged for mercy. Three others who
had been straying about among the trees
came back on hearing the shots, and were
also taken, and thus the whole crew of the
boat was captured.
The Captain and Robinson now began to
think how they might recover the ship.
There were on board, the Captain said,
several men on whom he thought he could
depend, and who bad been forced by the
others into the mutiny against their wills.
But it would be no easy thing to retake the
ship, for there were still twenty-six men on
board, and as they were guilty of mutiny, all
of them, if taken back to England, would
most likely be hanged. Thus they were
certain to make a fight for it.
The first thing that Robinson and the
others now did was to take everything out of
the boat,—oars, and mast, and sail, and rudder;
then they knocked a hole in her bottom, so
that she could not float. Whilst they were
doing this, and drawing her still further up
on the beach, they heard first one gun and
then another fired by the ship as signals to
the boat to return.
As she of course did not move, Robinson
saw through his glass another boat with
ten men on board, armed with muskets,
leave the ship, coming to bring the others
back.
This was serious enough, for now Robinson
and his party had to make plans whereby
they might capture also this fresh boat's crew.
Accordingly, they tied the hands of all the
men they had first taken, and sent the worst
of them to the cave under the charge Of
Friday and of one of the men that the Captain
said was to be trusted, with orders to shoot
any who tried to give an alarm or to escape.
Then Robinson took his party and the rest of
the prisoners into the castle, where, from the
rock, they watched for the landing of the
second boat.
The Captain and mate were very nervous,
and despaired of taking this fresh body of
men, but Robinson was quite confident of
success, and put heart into them by his
cheerfulness.
Of the prisoners in his castle, there were
two whom the Captain believed to be honest
men, and on their promising solemnly to
keep faith, and to fight for him, Robinson
released them.
The crew of the second boat, when they
landed, were terribly surprised to find the
first boat empty and stove in, and they were
seen anxiously consulting what to do. Then
they hallooed and fired volleys. Getting no
reply, they were evidently alarmed, for they
all jumped into their boat and began to pull
off to the ship. In a few minutes, however,
they seemed to change their minds, for again
they landed, this time leaving three men in
charge of the boat, and keeping her in
the water.
The other seven came ashore, and started
in a body across the island to look for their
lost comrades. But they did not care to ga
far, and soon stopped, again firing volleys
and hallooing. Getting again no reply, they
began to march back to the sea. Where-
upon Robinson ordered Friday and the mate
to go over the creek to the west and halloo
loudly, and wait till the sailors answered.
Then Friday and the mate were to go further
away and again halloo, thus gradually getting
the men to follow them away from the
shore.
This plan succeeded very well, for when
the sailors, thinking they heard their missing
friends hail, ran to find them, their way was
stopped by the creek, over which they had to
get the boat to carry them. They took with
them, then, one of the three men whom they
had left in the boat, and ordered the others to
moor the boat to a tree, and remain there.
This was just what Robinson wanted. And,
moreover, one of the men played still further
into his hands, for he left the boat and lay
down under a tree to sleep. On him the
Captain rushed, and knocked him down as he
tried to rise to his feet, whereupon the sailor
left in the boat yielded, the more readily that
he had joined the mutineers very unwillingly,
and was now glad of the chance to rejoin his
Captain.
Meantime Friday and the mate, by halloo-
ing and answering, drew the rest of the
boat's crew from hill to hill through the
woods, till at last they had got them so far
astray that it was not possible for them to
find their way back before dark. When they
did get back to where the boat had been left,
and found the men whom they had left in her
gone, they were in a terrible fright.
It was not difficult for Robinson and his
men to surround them, and it chanced that
the boatswain of the ship, who was the great-
est villain of the lot, and the chief cause of
all the trouble, walked in the darkness close
to the Captain, who jumped up and shot him
dead. The others then surrendered, believ-
ing what they were told, that they were
r
surrounded by fifty armed men. All begged
hard for their lives, and a few whom the
Captain said he could trust were set at liberty
on promising to help to retake the ship. The
others were bound and put in the cave.
Robinson and Friday remained on shore to
look after the prisoners, whilst the Captain
and the mate and the passenger, with those
of the crew who were trustworthy, having
patched up the damaged boat, pulled off in
her and in the other to the ship, which they
reached about midnight. When they were
a short distance off, the Captain made one
of the crew hail the ship and say that they
had brought off the boat and the men they
had gone in search of. Then both boats ran
alongside at once, one on each side of the
vessel, and before the mutineers knew what
was happening they were overpowered, one
or two of them being killed. Only one of the
Captain's party was hurt, the mate, whose
arm was broken by a musket-ball.
As soon as the ship was secured, the
captain ordered seven guns to be fired, that
SAILS FOR HOME 113
being the signal he had agreed to make to
let Robinson know if he succeeded in taking
the ship.
Robinson's stay in the island had now come
to an end, after more than twenty-eight years,
for in a few days he and Friday sailed for
England in the ship. Some of the mutineers
were left on the island, and were afterwards
joined by the Spaniard and his comrades,
for whom Robinson left a letter.
Robinson did not forget, when he left, to
take with him the money and gold bars he
had got from the wreck of the Spanish ship,
and he took also, as a memento, the goat-
skin coat and the great hairy hat. But the
Captain was able before the ship sailed to
give him proper clothing, the wearing of
which at first put him to dreadful discomfort.
The voyage was a long one, but they
sighted the English coast at last.
It was thirty-five years since Robinson had
set foot in England. And that morning,
when at last, after the weary years of
exile, he again saw his native land, he laid
his head down on his arms and cried like
a child.
And, may be, you too some day may know
the joy of coming home, out of the land of
bondage.
Edinburgh: Printed by T. and A. Constable,
•^ S.o.

ROBINSON CRUSOE
TOLD TO THE CHILDREN BY
JOHN LANG
WITH PICTURES BY
W. B. ROBINSON

LONDON: T. C. & E. C. JACK
NEW YORK: E. P. DUTTON & CO.
ALEC CORSE SCOTT
When Defoe wrote Robinson Crusoe,
nearly two hundred years ago, boys had more time on their
hands, fewerbooks and fewer games than they have now, and
they, as well as their fathers, read it and loved it. And when
your father and I were boys—though that is rather less than
two hundred years ago—we too used often to read it.
But boys nowadays do not seem to read Robinson
Crusoe as they used to do. It is too long, they think,
and there is much in it that they have not time to read.
That is why I have written here, in as few words as
Possible, the tale of Robinson's twenty-eight years in his
sland, and I hope that you, and other boys, will like it.
The sea that lay round Robinson's island is not like the
one you know—the grey North Sea, stormy and cold;
but it is blue like a sapphire, and where the rollers break in
white foam on the coral reefs it seems as if it were edged with
pearls. On the shores of the islands, cocoa-nut palms wave
their feathery fronds in the breeze; butterflies of wondrous
colours hover about; and in and out amongst the thick-leaved
trees dash birds, chattering and screaming, all crimson and
blue and yellow and green.
Often there are snakes too, and it was lucky that no
snakes on Robinson's island troubled him. For on some
islands that I have seen there are snakes—black and white,
the most poisonous of them—that swim about in the sea and
come up on the beach, and you have to be careful that you
do not sit down on the top of one, for they are not always
very quick at getting out of the way.
When you are a man, perhaps some day you will go to one
of those tropical islands. And if you take a boat and row out
to the inside of the reef of coral that lies round the island, and
put your face close down, and look through the quiet, crystal
clear water, you will know what Fairyland beneath the sea
is like. You will find there gardens of a beauty never seen
on land, only the branches of the trees are of coral, and in and
out amongst them, instead of bright-coloured birds, you will
see fishes swimming, some of a vivid yellow and black, others
blue as the sky. That is where the mermaids used to play,
when the world was younger than it is now.
Yours affectionately,
JOHN LANG.
Chap. Page
I. How Robinson first went to sea, and how he
'was ship-wrecked, I
ll. Robinson works hard at making himself a
home, . . . . . .12
III. The earthquake and hurricane; and how
Robinson built a boat, . . .27
IV. Robinson builds a second boat, in which he
is swept out to sea, . . . 31
V. Robinson sees a footprint on the sand, and
finds traces of cannibal feasts, . . 38
VI. Robinson finds a cave; hears guns fired by
a ship in distress, . . . .48
VII. Robinson visits the wrecked Spanish ship;
rescues a prisoner from the cannibals, . 59
VIII. How Robinson trained Friday, . .73
IX. Robinson and Friday build a large boat;
they rescue two prisoners from the
cannibals, ..... 86
X. Arrival of an English ship; Robinson sails
for home, . .... 99
ix
Slowly the raft drifted nearer and nearer the shore, Frontispiece
At page
Once Robinson shot a lion that he saw lying asleep, . 8
One day he came on a large turtle, • .... 26
He saw the mark of a naked foot on the sand, • . 40
The harbour where he had kept his boat so long, . . 64
The man knelt and kissed the ground, .... 70
Robinson ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds, . 94
What could an English ship be doing here? . • 102
HOW ROBINSON FIRST WENT TO SEA;
AND HOW HE WAS SHIPWRECKED
Long, long ago, before even your grand-
father's father was born, there lived in the
town of York a boy whose name was
Robinson Crusoe. Though he never even
saw the sea till he was quite a big boy, he
had always wanted to be a sailor, and to go
away in a ship to visit strange, foreign, far-off
lands; and he thought that if he could only
do that, he would be quite happy.
But his father wanted him to be a lawyer,
and he often talked to Robinson, and told
him of the terrible things that might happen
to him if he went away, and how people who
stopped at home were always the happiest.
He told him, too, how Robinson's brother
had gone away, and had been killed in the
wars.
So Robinson promised at last that he would
give up wanting to be a sailor. But in a few
days the longing came back as bad as ever,
and he asked his mother to try to coax his
father to let him go just one voyage. But
his mother was very angry, and his father
said, 'If he goes abroad he will be the most
miserable wretch that ever was born. I can
give no consent to it.'
Robinson stopped at home for another
year, till he was nineteen years old, all the
time thinking and thinking of the sea. But
one day when he had gone on a visit to Hull,
a big town by the sea, to say good-bye to one
of his friends who was going to London, he
could not resist the chance. Without even
sending a message to his father and mother,
he went on board his friend's ship, and sailed
away.
But as soon as the wind began to blow and
the waves to rise, poor Robinson was very
frightened and sea-sick, and he said to him-
self that if ever he got on shore he would go
straight home and never again leave it.
He was very solemn till the wind stopped
blowing. His friend and the sailors laughed
at him, and called him a fool, and he very
soon forgot, when the weather was fine and
the sun shining, all he had thought about
going back to his father and mother.
But in a few days, when the ship had sailed
as far as Yarmouth Roads on her way to
London, they had to anchor, and wait for a
fair wind. In those days there were no
steamers, and vessels had only their sails to
help them along; so if it was calm, or the
wind blew the wrong way, they had just
to wait where they were till a fair wind
blew.
Whilst they lay at Yarmouth the weather
became very bad, and there was a great
storm. The sea was so heavy and Robinson's
ship was in such danger, that at last they
had to cut away the masts in order to ease
her and to stop her from rolling so terribly.
The Captain fired guns to show that his
ship wanted help. So a boat from another
ship was lowered, and came with much
difficulty and took oft Robinson and all the
crew, just before their vessel sank; and they
got ashore at last, very wet and miserable,
having lost all their clothes except what they
had on.
But Robinson had some money in his
pocket, and he went on to London by land,
thinking that if he returned home now, people
would laugh at him.
In London he made friends with a ship's
captain, who had not long before come home
from a voyage to the Guinea Coast, as that
part of Africa was then called; and the
Captain was so pleased with the money he
had made there, that he easily persuaded
Robinson to go with him on his next voyage.
So Robinson took with him toys, and beads,
and other things, to sell to the natives in
Africa, and he got there, in exchange for
these things, so much gold dust that he
thought he was soon going in that way to
make his fortune.
And therefore he went on a second voyage.
But this time he was not so lucky, for
before they reached the African Coast, one
morning, very early, they sighted another
ship, which they were sure was a Pirate.
So fast did this other vessel sail, that before
night she had come up to Robinson's ship,
which did not carry nearly so many men nor
so many guns as the Pirate, and which there-
fore did not want to fight; and the pirates
soon took prisoner Robinson and all the
crew of his ship who were not killed, and
made slaves of them.
The Pirate captain took Robinson as his
own slave, and made him dig in his garden
and work in his house. Sometimes, too, he
made him look after his ship when she was in
port, but he never took him away on a voyage.
For two years Robinson lived like this,
very unhappy, and always thinking how he
might escape.
At last, when the Captain happened one
time to be at home longer than usual, he
began to go out fishing in a boat two or three
times a week, taking Robinson, who was a
very good fisher, and a black boy named
Xury, with him.
One day he gave Robinson orders to put
food and water, and some guns, and powder
and shot, on a big boat that the pirates had
taken out of an English ship, and to be
ready to go with him and some of his friends
on a fishing trip.
But at the last moment the Captain's
friends could not come, and so Robinson was
told to go out in the boat with one of the
Captain's servants who was not a slave, and
with Xury, to catch fish for supper.
Then Robinson thought that his chance to
escape had come.
He spoke to the servant, who was not very
clever, and persuaded him to put more food
and water on the boat, for, said Robinson,
'we must not take what was meant for our
master.' And then he got the servant to
bring some more powder and shot, because,
Robinson said, they might as well kill some
birds to eat
.
When they had gone out about a mile,
they hauled down the sail and began to fish.
But Robinson pretended that he could not
catch anything there, and he said that they
ought to go further out. When they had
gone so far that nobody on shore could see
what they were doing, Robinson again pre-
tended to fish. But this time he watched
his chance, and when the servant was not
looking, came behind him and threw him
overboard, knowing that the man could
swim so well that he could easily reach the
land.
Then Robinson sailed away with Xury
down the coast to the south. He did not
know to what country he was steering, but
cared only to get away from the pirates, and
to be free once more.
Long days and nights they sailed, some-
times running in close to the land, but they
were afraid to go ashore very often, because
of the wild beasts and the natives. Many
times they saw great lions come roaring
down on to the beach, and once Robinson
shot one that he saw lying asleep, and took
its skin to make a bed for himself on the
boat
At last, after some weeks, when they had
got south as far as the great cape that is
called Cape de Verde, they saw a Portuguese
vessel, which took them on board. It was
not easy for Robinson to tell who he was,
because he could not talk Portuguese, but
everybody was very kind to him, and they
bought his boat and his guns and everything
that he had. They even bought poor Xury,
who, of course, was' a black slave, and could
be sold just like a horse or a dog.
So, when they got to Brazil, where the
vessel was bound, Robinson had enough
money to buy a plantation; and he grew
sugar and tobacco there for four years, and
was very happy and contented for a time,
and made money.
But he could never be contented for very
long. So when some of his neighbours asked
him if he would go in a ship to the Guinea
Coast to get slaves for them, he went, only
Once Robinson shot a lion that he saw lying asleep
making a bargain that he was to be paid
for his trouble, and to get some of the slaves
to work on his plantation when he came
back.
Twelve days after the ship sailed, a
terrible storm blew, and they were driven
far from where they wanted to go. Great,
angry, foaming seas broke over the deck,
sweeping everything off that could be moved,
and a man and a boy were carried overboard
and drowned. No one on the ship expected
to be saved.
This storm was followed by another, even
worse. The wind howled and roared through
the rigging, and the weather was thick
with rain and flying spray.
Then early one morning land was dimly
seen through the driving rain, but almost
at once the vessel struck on a sand-bank.
In an instant the sails were blown to bits,
and flapped with such uproar that no one
could hear the Captain's orders. Waves
poured over the decks, and the vessel
bumped on the sand so terribly that the
masts broke off near the deck, and fell over
the side into the sea.
With great difficulty the only boat left on
the ship was put in the water, and everybody
got into her. They rowed for the shore,
hoping to get perhaps into some bay, or to
the mouth of a river, where the sea would
be quiet.
But before they could reach the land, a
huge grey wave, big like the side of a house,
came foaming and thundering up behind
them, and before any one could even cry
out, it upset the boat, and they were all left
struggling in the water.
Robinson was a very good swimmer, but
no man could swim in such a sea, and it
was only good fortune that brought him at
last safely to land. Big wave after big wave
washed him further and further up the
beach, rolling him over and over, once leav-
ing him helpless, and more than half-drowned,
beside a rock.
But before the next wave could come up,
perhaps to drag him back with it into the
sea, he was able to jump up and run for
bis life.
And so he got safely out of the reach of
the water, and lay down upon the grass.
But of all on board the ship, Robinson was
the only one who was not drowned.
ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING
HIMSELF A HOME
When he had rested a little, Robinson got
up and began to walk about very sadly,
for darkness was coming on; he was wet,
and cold, and hungry, and he did not know
tthere to sleep, because he was afraid of
wild beasts coming out of the woods and
killing him during the night.
But he found that he still had his
knife in his pocket, so he cut a big stick to
protect himself with. Then he climbed into
a tree which had very thick leaves, and there
he fixed himself among the branches as well
as he could, and fell sound asleep.
In the morning when he awoke, the storm
was past, and the sea quieter. To his
12
surprise, he saw that the ship had been
carried in the night, by the great seas,
much nearer to the shore than she had
been when the boat left her, and was now
lying not far from the rock where Robinson
had first been washed up.
By midday the sea was quite calm, and
the tide had gone so far out that he could
walk very near to the ship. So he took off
his clothes and swam the rest of the way to
her. But it was not easy to get on board,
because the ship was resting on the sand,
and lay so high out of the water that
Robinson could not reach anything by which
he could pull himself up.
At last, after swimming twice round the
vessel, he saw a rope hanging over, near
the bow, and by its help he climbed on
board.
Everything in the stern of the ship was
dry, and in pretty good order, and the water
had not hurt the provisions much. So he
took some biscuits, and ate them as he looked
about, and drank some rum, and then he felt
better, and stronger, and more fit to begin
work.
First of all, he took a few large spars of
wood, and a spare topmast or two, that were
on the deck. These he pushed overboard,
tying each with a rope to keep it from drift-
ing away. Then he went over the side of
the ship, and tied all the spars together so
as to make a raft, and on top he put pieces
of plank across. But it was long before he
could make the raft fit to carry the things he
wanted to take on shore.
At last, after much hard work, he got on to
it three of the seamen's chests, which he had
broken open and emptied, and he filled these
with bread, and rice, and cheese, and what-
ever he could find to eat, and with all sorts
of things that he thought he might need.
He found, too, the carpenter's tool chest,
and put it on the raft; and nothing on the
whole ship was of more use to him than
that
.
Then he set about looking for clothes, for
while he had been on the ship, the tide had
risen and had washed away his coat and
waistcoat and shirt, which he had left lying
on the sand.
Guns and pistols also, and powder and shot,
he took, and two old rusty cutlasses.
Now the trouble was to reach land, for the
raft had no mast nor sail nor rudder, and was
too heavy and clumsy to be pulled by Robin-
son with the broken oars that he had found.
But the tide was rising, and slowly she drifted
nearer and nearer, and at last was carried
up the mouth of a little river which Robinson
had not seen when he was on shore.
There was a strong tide running up, which
once carried the raft against a point of land,
where she stuck for a time, and very nearly
upset all the things into deep water. But as
the tide rose higher, Robinson was able to
push her into a little bay where the water
was shallow and the ground beneath flat,
and when the tide went out there she was
left high and dry, and he got everything
safely ashore.
The next thing that Robinson did was to
climb a hill, that he might see what sort of
country he was in, and find out if there were
any other people in it. But when he got to
the top, he saw to his sorrow that he was on
an island, with no other land in sight except
some rocks, and two smaller islands far over
the sea. There were no signs of any people,
and he saw nothing living except great
numbers of birds, one of which he shot
But it was not fit to eat, being some kind
of hawk.
After this, with the chests and boards that
he had brought on shore, he made a kind of
hut to sleep in that night, and he lay there on
the sand very comfortably.
Day by day now for some time Robinson
swam out to the ship, and made fresh rafts,
loading them with many stores, powder and
shot, and lead for bullets, seven muskets,
a great barrel of bread, three casks of rum, a
quantity of flour, some grain, a box of sugar,
sails and ropes and twine, bags of nails, and
many hatchets. With one of the sails he
made himself a good tent, in which he put
everything that could be spoiled by rain or
sun. Around it he piled all the casks and
other heavy things, so that no wild beast
could very easily get at him.
In about a fortnight the weather changed;
it blew very hard one night, and in the morn-
ing the ship had broken up, and was no more
to be seen. But that did not so much matter,
for Robinson had got out of her nearly every-
thing that he could use.
Now, Robinson thought it time to find some
better place for his tent. The land where it
then stood was low and near the sea, and the
only water he could get to drink tasted rather
salt Looking about, he found a little plain,
about a hundred yards across, on the side of
a hill, and at the end of the plain was a great
rock partly hollowed out, but not so as quite
to make a cave. Here he pitched his tent,
close to the hollow place in the rock. Round
in front of the tent he drove two rows of
strong stakes, about eighteen inches apart,
sharpened at top; and he made this fence so
strong that when it was finished he was sure
that nothing could get at him, for he left no
door, but climbed in and out by a ladder,
which he always hauled up after him.
Before closing up the end, Robinson
hauled inside this fence all his stores, his
food and his guns, his powder and shot, and
he rigged inside a double tent, so better to
keep off the hot sun and the rain.
Then he began to dig into the rock, which
was not very hard, and soon behind his tent
he had a cave in which he thought it wise to
stow his gunpowder, about one hundred and
forty pounds in all, packed in small parcels;
for, he thought, if a big thunderstorm were to
come, a flash of lightning might explode it all,
and blow him to bits, if he kept the whole of
it in his tent
.
Robinson was now very comfortable, and
as he had saved from the wreck two cats and
a dog, he did not feel quite so lonely. He had
got, also, ink and pens and paper, so that he
could keep a diary; and he set up a large
wooden cross, on which he cut with his knife
the date of his landing on the island—
30th September 1659; and every day he cut a
notch on the post, with a longer one each
Sunday, so that he might always know how
the months and years passed.
As for food, he found that there were many
goats on the island, and numbers of pigeons,
and he had no difficulty in shooting as many
as he needed.
But now he saw that his tent and cave
were too small for all the things he had
stowed in them, so he began to make
the cave bigger, bringing out all the rock and
soil that he cut down, and making with it a
kind of terrace round the inside of his
stockade. And as he was sure that there
were no wild beasts on the island to harm
him, he went on tunnelling to the right hand
till he broke through the rock outside his
fence.
Then he began to hang things up against
the side of the cave, and he even made
shelves, and a door for the outside entrance.
This was a very difficult job, and took him
a long time; for, to make a board, he was
forced to cut down a whole tree, and chop
away with his axe till one side was flat, and
then cut at the other side till the board was
thin enough, when he smoothed it with his
adze. But in this way, out of each tree he
would only get one plank. He made for
himself also a table and a chair, and finally
got his castle, as he called it, in very good
order.
With all his care, however, there was one
thing that he forgot, and that was, when
he had made the cave so much bigger, to
prop it, so as to keep the roof from falling
in. And so one day he got a terrible fright,
and was nearly killed, by a huge bit of the
soft rock which fell and buried many of
his things. It took weeks of hard work
afterwards to clear away the fallen rubbish,
and to cut beams strong enough to prop
the roof.
Every day, all this time, he used to climb
up the hill and look around over the lonely
waters, hoping, always hoping, that some
morning he might see the sails of a ship
that would take him home. But none ever
came, and sometimes the tears ran down
his cheeks because of the sorrow he felt
at being so utterly alone. At times even, he
thought in his misery that if only he had
any kind of a boat, it would be better to
sail away, and chance reaching other land,
rather than to stop where he was. By and
by, however, he grew less unhappy, for he
had plenty of work to do.
THE EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE;
AND HOW ROBINSON BUILT A BOAT
Now about this time, when Robinson had
been some months on the island, heavy and
constant rain began to fall, and sometimes
weeks would pass without a single dry day.
He found that instead of there being Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter, as in
England, the seasons in his island were
divided into the wet and the dry. There
was no cold weather, no winter. It chanced
that just before this first rain began,
Robinson had emptied out some refuse from
bags which had once held rice, and other
grain, and he had forgotten all about having
emptied them. So he was very much
astonished to find, some time afterwards,
both barley and rice growing near his tent,
22
in the shade of the rock. The ears, when
ripe, he kept to sow again, and from this
very small beginning, in the course of a
few seasons, he had a great quantity of
grain, both for food and for sowing. But
this meant every year much hard work, for
he had no plough nor harrow, and all the
ground had to be dug with a clumsy spade,
made from a very hard, heavy wood that
grew on the island.
At first Robinson could not grind the
grain that he grew, nor make bread from it.
If he could have found a large stone, slightly
hollow on top, he might, by pounding the
grain on it with another round stone, have
made very good meal. But all the stones
he could find were too soft, and in the end
he had to make a sort of mill of hard wood,
in which he burnt a hollow place, and on
that he pounded the grain into meal with
a heavy stick.
Baking he did by building a big fire, then
raking away the ashes, and putting the dough
on the hot place, covered with a kind of
basin made of clay, over which he heaped
the red ashes. In this way very good bread
can be made.
Before the rainy season was over, and
just after he had finished the fence round
his tent, one day when Robinson was at
work in the cave, all of a sudden the earth
began to fall from the roof, and the strong
props he had put in cracked in a way which
frightened him terribly. At the same time
there was a curious moaning, rumbling noise,
that he could not understand. He rushed
out, and so afraid was he that the roof was
falling in, and that he should be buried, that
he got over the fence and began to run.
But he was even more frightened when
he found that all the ground was shaking.
Then he knew that this was an earthquake.
Three times there came violent shocks;
a huge rock about half a mile away fell with
a great noise like thunder, and the sea was
churned up as if by a whirlwind. Robinson
was sick with the movement of the ground,
and trembling with the dread of being
swallowed by the earth as it cracked and
gaped; and after the noise and shaking were
over, he was too frightened to go back to
his tent, but sat where he was, all the time
expecting another shock.
Suddenly a furious wind began to blow,
tearing up trees by the roots, and lashing
the water till nothing could be seen but
foam and flying spray. The air was full of
branches and leaves torn off by the hurricane,
and birds in hundreds were swept helpless
out to sea. In about three hours, as
suddenly as it had begun, the wind fell,
and there was a dead calm, followed by rain
such as Robinson had never before seen,
which soaked him to the skin, and forced
him to return to the cave, where he sat in
great fear.
For long after this he was very uneasy,
and made up his mind to shift his quarters
as soon as he could find a better place for
his tent. But the earthquake had one good
result, for what remained of the wreck was
again thrown up by the sea, and Robinson
got more things out of it which were useful
to him, and for days he worked hard at that.
One day, too, when he was on his way to
the remains of the ship, he came on a large
turtle, which he killed, and this gave him
plenty of good food, for besides the flesh,
there were, inside the animal, many eggs,
which she had come to the shore to lay in the
sand, as is the habit of turtles, and which
Robinson thought were even better than
hen's eggs.
Now a few days after he had got so wet
in the heavy rain, though the weather was
hot, Robinson felt very cold and shivery,
and had pains all over his body, and at night
he dreamed terrible dreams. The following
day, and many days, he lay very ill with
fever and ague, and hardly knew what he
was doing. So weak was he, that he believed
he was dying, and there was no one to give
him water to quench his thirst, nor to help
him in any way. His only medicine was
rum, in which he had soaked tobacco. It
was very nasty, and made him sick, but it
One day he came on a large turtle
also made him sleep for more than a whole
day and a night, and he woke much better,
and able to walk about a little, though for
a fortnight he was too weak to work. From
this illness he learned not to go out more
than he could help during the rainy season.
When he was again quite strong, Robinson
started to explore the island better than he
had yet done, and he found many things
growing, of which he made great use after-
wards, tobacco, sugar-cane, and all manner
of fruits, amongst them grapes, which he
used to dry to raisins in the sun in great
quantities.
Near the spot where the most fruit grew,
he built a hut, and round it, for safety, he put
a double fence made of stakes cut from some
of the trees near at hand. During the next
rainy season these stakes took root, and
grew so fast that soon nothing of the hut
could be seen from outside the hedge, and it
made so good a hiding-place, that Robinson
cut more stakes of the same kind, and planted
them outside the fence around his first dwell-
ing; and in a year or two that also was quite
hidden from view. The twigs of this tree,
too, were good for making baskets, of which
he had been in great need.
When he had finished all this work, he
started again to go over the rest of the island,
and on his way across, from a hill, the day
being very clear, he saw high land a great
way off over the water, but whether it was
another island, or the coast of America, he
could not be sure.
When he reached the other side of his
island Robinson found the beach covered
with turtles in astonishing numbers, and he
thought how much better off he would have
been if he had been cast ashore here, for not
only would the turtles have supplied him
with plenty of food, but there were far more
birds than on the part of the island where he
had been living, and far more goats.
During the journey back to his castle he
caught a young parrot, which, after a long
time, he taught to speak and to call him by
his name. It was so long since he had heard
any voice, that it was a comfort to listen even
to a parrot talking.
Now, the sight which Robinson had had of
the far distant land raised in him again the
great longing to get away from this island
where he had been so long alone, and he
wished greatly for a boat. He went over to
the remains of the boat in which he and the
others had tried to come ashore when their
ship struck on the sand-bank, and which had
been flung far up on the beach by the sea,
and he worked for weeks trying to repair her
and to get her into the water. But it was all
of no use; he could not move her.
Then, he thought, 'I'll cut down a tree,
and make a new boat.' This he fancied would
be easy, for he had heard how the Indians
make canoes by felling a tree and burning
out the inside. 'If they can do it, then surely
I can do it even better,' he thought. So he
looked about, and chose a huge tree which
stood about a hundred yards from the water,
and with great labour in about three weeks
he had cut it down.
Four months Robinson worked at this
boat, thinking all the time of what he would
do when he reached the far distant land, and
much pleased with himself for the beautiful
boat he was making. Day after day he
trimmed and shaped it, and very proud he
was when it was finished and lay there on
the ground, big enough to carry twenty men.
Then he started to get her into the water.
But that was quite another thing. By no
means in his power could he move her an
inch, try as he might. She was far too big.
Then he began to dig a canal from the sea
to the boat; but before he had got much of
that work done, he saw clearly that there was
so much earth to dig away, that, without
some one to help him, it must take years and
years before he could get the water to the
boat . So he gave it up, and left her to lie
and rot in the sun and the rain,—a great grief
to him.
ROBINSON BUILDS A SECOND BOAT, IN
WHICH HE IS SWEPT OUT TO SEA
By the time that Robinson had been four
years on the island, all his clothes had become
very ragged, and he had hardly anything
that could be called a hat. Clothes he must
have, for he could not go naked without
getting his skin blistered by the hot sun, and
he was afraid of getting a sunstroke if he
went about without a hat.
Now he had kept all the skins of the goats,
and other animals, such as hares and foxes,
that he had shot; and from these, after many
failures, at last he made a hat and coat of
goatskin, and a pair of short trousers, all
with the hair outside, so as to shoot off the
wet when it rained. The hat was very tall,
31
and came to a sharp peak on top, and it had
a flap which hung down the back of his neck.
Robinson also, with much trouble, made of
the skins an umbrella which he could open
and shut; and if his clothes and his umbrella,
and especially his hat, were not very good to
look at, they were useful, and he could now
go about in any weather.
During the next five years nothing out of
the common happened, and Robinson's time
was mostly taken up with the getting of
food, the yearly sowing and reaping of his
crops, and the curing of his raisins. But
towards the end of that time he made another
attempt to build a boat, and this time he
made one much smaller than the first, and
though it took him nearly two years to finish,
in the end he got her into the sea. She was
not big enough for him to try to sail in to
the far-off land that he had seen, and he
used her only for cruising about the shores
of his own island, and for fishing. In her
he fixed a little mast, on which he rigged a
small sail, made from a bit of one of the old
ship's sails, and, using a paddle to steer
with, he found that she sailed very well.
Over the stern he fixed his big umbrella, to
shade him from the sun, like an awning.
Eager to go all round the island, one day
Robinson put a lot of food on board, and,
taking his gun, started on a voyage. All
went well till he came to the east end of the
island, where he found that a ledge of rocks,
and beyond that a sand-bank, stretched out to
sea for eight or nine miles. Robinson did not
ike the idea of venturing so far in a boat so
small, and he therefore ran the boat ashore,
and climbed a hill, to get a good view of the
rocks and shoals before going near them.
From the hill, he saw that a strong current
was sweeping past the sand-bank, which
showed just clear of the water, and on which
the sea was breaking; but he thought there
was an eddy which would swing him safely
round the point, without bringing him near the
breakers. However, that day and the next,
there was a good deal of wind blowing in the
direction contrary to the current, which, of
course, raised a sea too big for a small boat,
so Robinson stopped on shore where he was.
On the third day it was calm, and he set
off. But no sooner had he come abreast ot
the sand-bank than he found himself in very
deep water, with a current running like a
mill-race, which carried the boat further and
further away from the land, in spite of all that
he could do with his paddle. There was no
wind, and the sail was useless.
Now he gave himself up for lost, for the
harder he worked, only the further away
seemed the boat to be swept. The island
was soon so far off that Robinson could
hardly see it, and he was quite exhausted
with the hard struggle to paddle the boat
against the current . He was in despair, and
giving up paddling, left the boat to drift
where she would. Just then a faint puff of
wind touched his cheek, and Robinson
hurriedly hoisted his sail. Soon a good
breeze blew, which carried him past a
dangerous reef of rocks. Here the current
seemed to divide, the part in which he now
was began to swing round towards the island,
and he plucked up heart again, and with his
paddle did all he could to help the sail.
Robinson felt like a man who is set free after
he has been told that he must die; he could
almost have wept for joy. Miles and miles
he sailed, steadily getting nearer to the land,
and late in the evening at last he got ashore,
but on the other side of the point that he had
tried to round in the morning. He drew up
his boat on the shore of a little cove that he
found, and when he had made her fast, so that
the tide could not carry her away, there
amongst the trees he lay down, and slept
sound, quite worn out.
In the morning he again got on board, and
coasted along close inshore, till he came to a
bay with a little river running into it, which
made a very good harbour for the boat.
Here he left her, and went on foot
.
Soon he found that he was not far from a
spot that he had once before visited, and by
afternoon he arrived at the hut which he
called his country-house. Robinson got over
the fence by the ladder, as usual, pulling it up
after him, and then he lay down to rest in the
shade, for he was still very weary from the
hard work of the day before. Soon he fell
asleep. But what was his surprise in a little
time to be awakened by a voice calling,
'Robin! Robin Crusoe! where are you?'
At first he thought he was dreaming.
But still the voice went on calling:
'Where are you, Robin?'
Up he jumped, trembling with fright and
wonder, for it was so long since he had heard
any voice but his own that he fancied it must
be something more than human that he now
listened to. But no sooner had he risen than
he saw, sitting on a tree near to him, his
parrot, which must have flown all the way
from Robinson's other house, where he had
been left. It was talking away at a great
rate, very excited at again seeing its master,
and Robinson hardly knew whether to be
more relieved or disappointed that it was only
the bird that had called him.
For about a year after this Robinson kept
to his own side of the island, and employed
his time chiefly in working on his land, and
in making dishes and pots of clay. These
he had now learned to burn properly. Pipes,
too, he made, and they were a great comfort
to him, for he managed to cure very good
tobacco from the wild plants that grew
around. And as he feared lest his powder
might begin to run short, he thought much
over ways whereby he could trap goats for
food, instead of shooting them. After many
trials, the best plan, he decided, was to dig
holes, which he covered with thin branches
and leaves, on which he sprinkled earth,
so that when anything heavy passed over,
it must fall into the pit. By this means
he caught many, and the kids he kept and
tamed, so that in no great time he had quite
a large herd of goats. These he kept in
various small fields, round which from time
to time he had put fences.
D
ROBINSON SEES A FOOTPRINT ON THE
SAND, AND FINDS TRACES OF
CANNIBAL FEASTS
All this time Robinson had never gone near
his canoe, but now the longing came on him
to go over to where he had left her, though
he felt that he should be afraid again to put
to sea in her. This time, however, when he
got to the hill from which he had watched
the set of the current the day that he had
been carried out to sea, he noticed that there
was no current to be seen, from which he
concluded that it must depend on the ebb
and flow of the tide. Still, he was afraid to
venture far in the canoe, though he stopped
some time at his country-house, and went
out sailing very often.
One day when Robinson was walking along
the sand towards his boat, suddenly, close to
38
the water, he stopped as if he had been shot,
and, with thumping heart, stood staring in
wonder and fear at something that he saw.
The mark of a naked foot on the sand! It
could not be his own, he knew, for the shape
was quite different. Whose could it be?
He listened, he looked about, but nothing
could he hear or see. To the top of a rising
ground he ran, and looked all around. There
was nothing to be seen. And though he
searched everywhere on the beach for more
footmarks, he found none.
Whose footprint could it be? That of
some man, perhaps, he thought, who might
come stealing on him out from the trees, or
murder him whilst he slept
Back to his house he hurried, all the way
in a state of terror, starting every now and
again and facing round, thinking he was
being followed, and fancying often that a
stump or a bush was a man, waiting to
spring on him. That night he slept not at
all, and so shaken was his nerve that every
cry of a night bird, even every sound made
by an insect or a frog, caused him to start
with fear, so that the perspiration ran down
his brow.
As day followed day, however, and nothing
happened, Robinson began to be less un-
easy in his mind, and went about his usual
work again. But he strengthened the fence
round his castle, and cut in it seven small
loop-holes, in which, fixed on frames, he
placed loaded muskets, all ready to fire if he
should be attacked. And some distance
from the outside of the fence he planted a
thick belt of small stakes, so that in a few
years' time a perfect thicket of trees and
bushes hid all trace of his dwelling.
Years passed quietly, and nothing further
happened to disturb Robinson, or to make
him think more of the footprint that had
frightened him so much. But he kept more
than formerly to the interior of the island,
and lost no chance of looking for good places
to hide in, if he should ever need them. And
he always carried a cutlass now, as well as
his gun and a couple of pistols.
He saw the mark of a naked foot on the sand
One day it chanced, however, that he had
gone further to the west of the island than
he had ever done before, and, looking over
the sea, he fancied that he saw, at a great
distance, something like a boat or a long
canoe, but it was so far off that he could not
be sure what it was. This made him
determine that always in future he would
bring with him to his lookout-place the
telescope which he had saved from the
wreck.
The sight of this supposed boat brought
back his uneasiness to some extent, but he
went on down to the beach, and there he
saw a sight which filled him with horror.
All about the shore were scattered men's
skulls and bones, and bits of burnt flesh, and
in one place were the remains of a big fire.
Robinson stood aghast, feeling deadly sick.
It was easy for him to know the meaning
of the terrible sight. It meant that cannibals
had been there, killing and eating their
prisoners; for when the natives of some
parts of the world go to war, and catch any
of 'their enemies, it is their habit to build
a fire, then to kill the prisoners and feast on
their roasted bodies, eating till they can
eat no more. Sometimes, if the man they
are going to eat is too thin, they keep him,
and feed him up, till they think he is fat
enough.
Now Robinson knew all this, though he
had never yet met any cannibals. And
when he looked around he saw many bones
lying about. They were so old that it seemed
certain to him that all those years he had
been living on an island which was a regular
place for the natives to come to for such
feasts. Then he saw what a mercy it was
that he had been wrecked on the other side
of the island, to which, he supposed, the
cannibals never came, because the beach was
not so good for them to land on.
Full of horror, Robinson hurried back
to his house, and for almost two years he
never again came near that part of the
island where the bones lay, nor ever visited
his boat. But all the time he kept thinking
how he might some day kill those cannibals
whilst they were at their feast, and perhaps
save some of the poor men whom they had
not yet killed. Sometimes he thought of
putting powder below the place where they
were likely to light their fire, and thus blow
them up. But that did not seem a very good
plan, because he did not want to waste his
powder, and may be they might not light
the fire on that spot, or they might not
be near when it exploded. So he looked
for a place where he could hide, near where
the bones lay, and at last he found a
good spot, from which he could watch them
land. Near this spot were trees, through
which he could creep up quite close to them,
unseen, and so shoot without danger of
missing. And it was his plan, that if he
should happen to see the savages next time
they came over for one of their horrible
feasts, he would lie hidden till a good
chance came, then shoot as many as he
could with his gun and pistols, and after-
wards with his cutlass rush upon those that
were left. In this way he counted on being
able to kill them all, even if there were as
many as twenty, for they would be taken
by surprise, and in the confusion might not
be able to get at their spears and clubs.
When he had made this plan, Robinson
was so pleased with it that for a time he
could think of little else, and every day he
would walk three miles to his lookout-hill,
and watch through his telescope for signs
of canoes coming over the sea towards
the island. But after two or three months
without result, he grew tired of it. Never
a speck was to be seen on the water in any
direction, and he began to go less and less
often to the lookout-hill, and then gave up
going altogether. Perhaps too, he thought,
it was no business of his; the savages did
not know any better, and were only doing
what their fathers had taught them to do.
It was the custom in these savage lands,
and Robinson came to think, finally, that
he had no right to interfere, unless they
first attacked him. He argued also that if
he did attack, and it chanced that he did not
kill them all, that even only one got away,
for certain that man would tell his tribe as
soon as he got home, and they would come
over in hundreds to murder Robinson in
revenge for the death of those he had killed.
And no doubt they would eat him, the
thought of which was very dreadful.
On the whole, therefore, it seemed to him
wisest to keep away altogether from that
part of the beach, and to hide as well as he
could all traces of any one living on the
island. So, except to take away and con-
ceal his boat, for more than another year
he never went back to that spot. The boat,
with her mast and sail and paddle, and a
sort of little anchor he had made for her,
he took to the farthest east end of the island.
He was sure the savages would never
come there in their canoes, because of the
strong current that usually swept past the
rocks; and he left her safely moored in a
little bay, under the shelter of some high
rocks.
More than ever now, Robinson kept to his
two houses, and seldom left them, except
to go to a deep valley he had found, through
which ran a little stream of water as clear
as crystal, and in which he now kept most
of his goats, secured by a fence built all
round the valley. He almost gave up firing
his gun, lest it should bring the savages to
find out the cause of the noise; and for the
same reason he feared even to chop wood
or to drive a nail. He was particularly
careful, too, never to make a fire during
the day, for nothing is so easily seen from a
distance as smoke, and it would certainly
bring the savages on him, if they were on
the island, or anywhere near it.
So, when he needed a big fire, as he did
often when burning the clay dishes and
pots which he made, he would generally
light it during the night. But sometimes
in the day-time he would light it in the
valley, where the smoke would not show so
plainly against the sky or the dark trees,
owing to the hollow being deep, and in the
very middle of the island.
Presently, he began to make charcoal, by
burning wood under earth and turf, and this
charcoal he often took home to his house to
use for cooking his food, because charcoal
makes no smoke.
ROBINSON FINDS A CAVE; HEARS GUNS
FIRED BY A SHIP IN DISTRESS
Now one day when Robinson was down in
the bottom of the valley, cutting thick
branches to burn for charcoal, he cleared
away some undergrowth at the foot of a great
rock, in which, near the ground, there was a
sort of hole, or opening. Into this hole
Robinson squeezed, not very easily, and
found himself in a cave of good size, high
enough, at least, to stand up in. It was
quite dark, of course, to him coming in from
the sunlight, and he turned his back to the
entrance to feel his way further in, when
suddenly, from the back of the cave he saw
two great fiery eyes glaring at him. His
very hair bristled with fright, for he could
48
only think that it must be the Devil at least
that he saw; and through the mouth of the
cave he fled with a yell.
But when he got into the bright sun-
shine he began to feel ashamed of his panic,
and to reason with himself that what he had
seen must be only his own fancy. So, taking
up a big burning branch from his fire, in he
went again.
Before Robinson had taken three steps he
stopped, in almost as great a fright as at
first . Close to him he heard a great sigh, as
if of some one in pain, then a sound like a
muttering, as of words that he could not
understand; again another deep sigh. Cold
sweat broke out all over him, and he stepped
back trembling, yet determined this time
not to run away.
Holding his torch well over his head, he
looked around, and there on the floor of the
cave lay a huge old he-goat, gasping for
breath, dying, seemingly of mere old age.
He stirred him with his toe to see if he
could get him out of the cave, but the poor
beast could not rise, and Robinson left him
to die where he was.
Now that he had got over his fright,
Robinson looked carefully about him. The
cave was small, not more than twelve feet
across at its widest, but he noticed at the far
end another opening. This was so low down,
however, that he had to creep on his hands
and knees to get in, and without a better light
than the burning torch, he could not see how
far it went. So he made up his mind to
come again.
Robinson had long before this made a good
supply of very fair candles from the tallow of
the goats he had killed, and next day he
returned to the cave with six of these, and
his tinder-box to light them with. In those
days there were no matches, and men used
to strike a light with a flint and steel, and
tinder, which was a stuff that caught fire
very easily from a spark.
Entering the cave, Robinson found, on
lighting a candle, that the goat was now dead.
Moving it aside, to be buried later, he went
down on his hands and knees, and crawled
about ten yards through the small passage,
till at last he found himself in a great
chamber, the roof of which was quite twenty
feet high. On every side the walls reflected
the light of his candle, and glittered like gold,
or almost like diamonds, he thought. The
floor was perfectly dry and level, even on the
walls there was no damp, and Robinson was
delighted with his discovery. Its only draw-
back was the low entrance; but, as he decided
to use the cave chiefly as a place to retreat
to if he should ever be attacked, that was
in reality an advantage, because one man,
if he had firearms, could easily defend it
against hundreds.
At once Robinson set about storing in it all
his powder, except three or four pounds, all
his lead for making bullets, and his spare
guns and muskets. When moving the
powder, he thought he might as well open a
barrel which had drifted ashore out of the
wreck after the earthquake, and though
water had got into it, there was not a great
deal of damage done, for the powder had
crusted on the outside only, and in the inside
there was about sixty pounds weight, quite
dry and good. This, with what remained of
the first lot, gave him a very large supply,
enough to last all his life.
For more than two-and-twenty years
Robinson had now been in the island, and he
had grown quite used to it, and to his manner
of living. If he could only have been sure
that no savages would come near him, he
felt almost that he would be content to spend
all the rest of his days there, to die at last, as
the goat he found in the cave had died, of
old age.
It was near the end of the month of
December, his harvest time, and Robinson
used then to be much out in his fields even
before daylight. One morning, being anxious
to finish cutting the crop, he had left his
house even earlier than usual, long before
the stars had ceased to shine or the first
flush of dawn had showed in the sky, and
as he crossed the higher lying ground
between his castle and the cornfield, it
chanced that he glanced in the direction of
the sea.
There, on the shore, to his great horror on
his own side of the island, he saw a fire burn-
ing, and he knew that this could only have
been lit by the cannibals, who had once
more landed.
Straight back to his castle he ran, and
climbed hurriedly over the fence, pulling the
ladder up after him. Quickly he loaded all
his muskets and pistols, ready to defend
himself to the last gasp, for he was sure
that, if these savage men should happen to
see his crops growing in the fields, they
would know that some one was living on
the island, and would never rest till they found
him.
But when Robinson had waited some
time without anything happening, he could
bear the suspense no longer. Taking the
telescope, he put his ladder against the rock
where there was a flat ledge, and climbing
up to this, pulled the ladder after him, and
E
again resting it there, so climbed to the top
of the rock, where he lay down and looked
eagerly through the glass.
There were no less than nine savages, he
saw, all sitting round the fire, cooking some-
thing, but what it was that they cooked he
could not tell, though it was not difficult to
guess.
After a time they began a kind of dance
round the fire, all of them stark naked, and
Robinson watched them at this for nearly
two hours.
The cannibals had two canoes, which were
hauled up on the shore, and as it was then
low water he fancied they must be waiting
for the tide to rise again. And so it turned
out, for when the tide had been flowing for a
time, they shoved off, jumped on board, and
paddled away.
As soon as Robinson was sure that they
were really gone, he went with all his speed
to the hill from where, first of all, long
ago, he had seen signs of savages, and
looking through his glass, he saw three more
canoes at sea, all paddling away from the
island. On going down to the shore, there he
saw a dreadful sight. Skulls, bits of flesh,
and bones, lay about, and fresh blood was
everywhere, hardly yet soaked into the sand.
This awful sight so horrified and roused
Robinson that once more he determined,
whenever the next chance came, to attack
the cannibals, however many there might be,
and kill all that he could. But always, for
long after, he lived in great uneasiness, never
sure that at any moment he might not be
taken by surprise. Often he wished the
time had come when he could run at them;
for suspense is always harder to bear than
any action, however dangerous.
But many months went by, and no
savages were seen, and nothing disturbed
Robinson except dreadful dreams, from
which in the night he often started out of his
sleep, crying out and struggling, thinking
that the savages were trying to kill him.
About the middle of the following May, one
day there came a very great storm, with
much thunder and lightning and rain, and
during the night the wind blew a perfect
hurricane. Robinson was sitting listening
to the roaring of the wind, and sometimes
reading the Bible which he had found in one
of the seamen's chests, for he could not sleep.
Suddenly he was startled by a kind of dull
thud that seemed to shake the very air, such
a thud as you might hear if something very
heavy, but soft, fell on the floor of a room
upstairs. And this noise was followed in about
a minute by another thud. This time he could
hear plainer, and he knew that the sounds
were those of big guns fired at sea, and that
they must come from some ship in danger,
and signalling for help, perhaps to some
other vessel.
Robinson ran out, and climbing up his
ladder, got to the top of the rock in time to
see the flash of another gun, away towards
the reef of rocks at the end of the island.
If he was not able to help the people on
board the vessel, they might yet, if they were
saved, help him, so he collected all the dry
wood he could get, and making a great pile,
set fire to it, as a signal to the ship that there
was some one on the island. And he was
sure that the signal was seen, for as soon as
it blazed up another gun was fired; then gun
after gun, for some time.
Robinson kept his fire blazing all night,
and when daylight came, and the storm
cleared off, he thought he could see, away to
the east, something which looked like a ship.
He fancied she was at anchor, for she never
moved. But the distance was too great, and
the weather too thick for him to be sure if
it was a ship at all that he saw.
Later in the day, when the weather had
cleared, on going up the hill from which, long
ago, he had watched the current sweeping
past the rocks, he could see plainly that there
was a vessel, but, to his sorrow, that she was
a wreck, fast on the reef where, the day he
was carried out to sea, he had found the
current divide.
Without doubt the crew must have
perished. And it filled Robinson with sad-
ness and great grief to think how near he
had been perhaps to fellow countrymen, and
how not even one had been spared to
come ashore. His whole soul yearned for
the sight of a white man, some one to whom
he could speak. But all that ever he saw of
the crew, except what he afterwards found
on the ship itself, was the body of a boy,
which drifted on shore at the end of the
island nearest the wreck; and he could not
tell from the few clothes that were on the
body to what nation the boy had belonged.
In his pockets were two gold coins, and a
tobacco pipe, and the last at least was of use
to Robinson.
ROBINSON VISITS THE WRECKED SPANISH
SHIP; RESCUES A PRISONER FROM
THE CANNIBALS
When the weather had again become calm
and settled, Robinson was greatly tempted
to venture out in his boat to the wreck, in
spite of the narrow escape he had had before
at that place; but there might still, he thought,
be some one alive on board, and he made up
his mind to risk it. This time he put a
compass in the boat, and great store of food
and water, as much as she could well carry,
and he pushed off, paddling along the shore
till he came near to the end of the sand-bank
where the current ran so strong. And there
his heart failed him. If he once got into that
current, how was he to get out of it again?
And if he were swept out to sea, and a gale
159
of wind sprang up, what chance was there
that his small boat would live through it?
He was so cast down by these thoughts that
he ran the boat ashore and got out.
Going on to a high rock he sat for hours
watching the water, trying to make up his
mind whether to venture to the wreck or not,
when he noticed that the current was now
running in the direction contrary to that in
which it had been flowing the first time he
saw it. This, it occurred to him, must be
caused by the tides, and it seemed likely that
if he chose his time, the current going one
way would carry him close to the wreck, and
that caused by the next tide would help him
back again.
This seemed so simple and easy that he
determined to risk it next day. Sleeping
that night in the canoe, early in the morning
he started, and in little more than two hours
safely reached the wreck, without any
trouble.
She was a pitiful sight,—Spanish, he
judged, from her build. She was lying on
the reef, jammed fast between two rocks, the
after part of her all stove in by the sea. Her
main and foremasts had gone over the side
when she struck, and hung about the wreck
in a tangle of rigging and spars. Her bul-
warks, and rails, and the poop ladders, were
all gone, and part of one boat still hung on
the davits, torn away by the furious sea
before the crew could attempt to lower it.
On board, there was no living thing except
a dog, which yelped when it saw Robinson
coming, and jumped into the sea, and swam
eagerly to him when he spoke to it. Poor
beast! It was almost dead from thirst
Robinson gave it water, and food, and it
drank till he was almost afraid it might
burst itself.
After this, Robinson boarded the wreck,
and the first thing he saw was two men
lying in the cook's galley, dead, held fast in
each other's arms. Beyond this, there was
no trace of any human being, and the cargo,
whatever it might have been, had mostly been
washed out of the wreck by the sea. There
were still a few casks of brandy, or wine, low
down in the hold, but they were too heavy
for Robinson to move.
Some chests there were in the forecastle,
which most likely had belonged to some of
the crew. Two of these Robinson got into
his boat, along with a small cask of liquor,
and other things; a powder-horn full of
powder, a fire-shovel and tongs (which he
had always much needed), two little brass
kettles, a copper pot, and a gridiron.
These, and the dog, were all that he got
from the wreck. The dog was a great
comfort to him, for the animal he had
brought ashore from his own ship had now
been dead many years.
Except what he found in the seamen's
chests, there was nothing of value in the
cargo he brought ashore. In the chests
were many things that he prized, linen
shirts, handkerchiefs, and coloured neck-
cloths, pots of sweetmeats, a case of bottles
of cordial waters, very handsomely mounted
with silver, and, what then was of less value
to him, three great bags of gold pieces,
besides gold doubloons, and bars of gold.
But all this gold he would gladly have given
then for a few pairs of English shoes and
stockings, for it was of no use at all to him
on the island. However, he stowed all the
money and the gold in his cave, along with
the other things, and then returned and
worked his boat along shore to the harbour
where he had kept her so long.
But the sight of the wrecked ship and
the drowned men had filled him again with
the longing to go away, and if he had had
as good a boat as that in which he escaped
from the pirates, he thought that he would
have waited no longer on the island, but
would have put to sea in her, and taken his
chance of reaching some land where white
men dwelt. With the frail craft that he
had, however, such a plan was not possible,
and he had no choice but to go on living
as he had already so long lived, ail the time
in daily fear of a raid by the savages.
And yet, at times, when his spirits were
more than usually low, when the burden of
the lonely years pressed most heavily upon
him, Robinson used to think that surely if
the savages could come to his land, he could
go to theirs. How far did they come?
Where was their country? What kind
of boats had they? And so eager to go
was he sometimes, that he forgot to think
of what he would do when he got there, or
what would become of him if he fell into the
hands of the savages. His mind was utterly
taken up with the one thought of getting
to the mainland, and even his dreams were
of little else.
One night, when he had put himself almost
into a fever with the trouble of his mind,
he had lain long awake, tossing and moan-
ing, but at last he had fallen asleep. And
he dreamed, not as he had usually done of
late, that he was sailing to the mainland,
but that as he was leaving his castle in the
morning he saw on the shore two canoes
and eleven savages landing, and that they
had with them another man, whom they
The harbour where he had kept his boat so long
were just about to kill and eat, when
suddenly the prisoner jumped up and ran
for his life. And in his dream Robinson
fancied that the man came running to hide
in the thicket round the castle, and that
thereupon he went out to help him. Then
in the dream, the savage kneeled down, as
if begging for mercy, and Robinson took
him over the ladder into the castle, saying
to himself, 'Now that I 've got this fellow,
I can certainly go to the mainland, for he
will show me what course to steer, and where
to go when we land.' And he woke, with
the joyful feeling that now at last all was
well. But when he was wide awake, and
knew that it was only a dream after all,
poor Robinson was more cast down than
ever, and more unhappy than he had
been during all the years he had lived on
the island.
The dream had, however, this result; that
he saw his only plan to get away was, if
possible, to rescue some day one of the
prisoners whom the cannibals were about
to kill, and in time get the man to help him
to navigate his canoe across the sea.
With this idea, he set himself to watch,
more closely than ever he had done before,
for the savages to land, and during more
than a year and a half he went nearly every
day to his lookout-place, and swept the sea
with his telescope, in the hope of seeing
canoes coming. But none came, and Robin-
son was getting terribly tired of the constant
watch. Still he did not give up, for he knew
that sooner or later the savages would land
again.
Yet many months passed, and still they
did not come, till one morning, very early,
almost to his surprise, he saw no fewer than
tive canoes hauled up on the shore on his
own side of the island. The savages who
had come in them were nowhere to be seen.
Now, he knew that always from four to six
men came in each canoe, which meant that
at least twenty, and perhaps as many as
thirty men had landed.
This was a greater number than he cared
to face, so he kept inside his castle, in great
doubt what to do, but ready to fight, in case
they should attack him.
When he had waited a long time and
still could hear nothing of the savages, he
climbed up his ladder and got to the top
of the rock, taking great care not to show
himself against the sky-line. Looking
through his glass, he saw that there were
at least thirty savages, dancing wildly round
afire.
As he looked, some of the men left the
others, and going over to the canoes dragged
from them two prisoners. One of these
almost at once fell forward on his face,
knocked down from behind, as it seemed
to Robinson, with a wooden club, and two
or three of the cannibals at once cut him
open to be ready for cooking, whilst for
a moment or two they left the other prisoner
standing by himself.
Seeing a chance of escape, the man
made a dash for his life, running with
tremendous speed along the sands straight
for that part of the beach near Robinson's
castle.
Now this alarmed Robinson very much,
for it seemed to him that the whole of the
savages started after the prisoner. He
could not help thinking it likely that, as
in his dream, this man would take shelter in
the thicket round the castle, in which case
Robinson was likely soon to have more
fighting than he would relish, for the whole
body of the cannibals would be on him at
once.
As he watched the poor man racing for
life, however, he was relieved to see that
he ran much faster than his pursuers, of
whom only three continued to run after him.
If he could hold out for another mile or two
there was little doubt that he would escape.
Between the castle and the runners was the
creek up which Robinson used to run his
rafts from the wreck, and when the escaped
prisoner came to that, he plunged in, and
though the tide was full, with less than
thirty powerful strokes he reached the other
side, and with long easy strides continued
his run. Of the men in pursuit, two also
plunged in and swam through, but less
quickly than the man escaping, being more
blown with running, because of what they
had eaten before starting. The third man
stopped altogether, and went back the
way he came.
Seeing the turn things were taking, it
seemed to Robinson that now had come his
chance to get a servant, and he resolved to
try to save the life of the man who was
fleeing from the cannibals. At once he
hurried down the ladder, snatched up his
two guns, and running as fast as he could,
got between the man and his pursuers,
calling out to him at the same time to stop.
The man looked back, and the sight of
Robinson seemed to frighten him at first
as much as did the men who were trying
to catch him. But Robinson again spoke,
and signed to him with his hand to come
back, and in the meantime went slowly
towards the other men, who were now
coming near. Then, rushing at the foremost,
he knocked him senseless with the butt of
his gun, for it seemed to him safer not to
fire, lest the noise should bring the other
cannibals around.
The second man, seeing his comrade fall,
hesitated, and stopped, but Robinson saw
when nearer to him that the savage had in
his hands a bow and arrow with which he
was just about to shoot . There was then no
choice but to fire first, which Robinson did,
killing the man on the spot.
Thereupon the man who had been chased
by the others was so terrified by the flash
and noise of the gun, and at seeing his enemy
fall dead, that he stood stock still, trembling,
and it was with great difficulty that Robinson
coaxed him to come near. This at last he
did, stopping every few paces and kneeling
down. At length, coming close to Robinson,
he again knelt, kissed the ground, and taking
hold of Robinson's foot, set it on his head as
it rested on the sand.
Whilst this was going on, Robinson noticed
N
The man knelt and kissed the ground
that the savage whom he had knocked down
had begun to move, and to come to his senses.
To this he drew the attention of the man
whom he had rescued, who said some words
that Robinson could not understand, but
which sounded pleasant to an ear that had
heard no voice but his own for more than
twenty-five years. Next he made a motion
with his hand, as if asking for the cutlass
that hung at Robinson's belt, and when the
weapon was given to him he ran at his enemy,
and with one clean blow cut off his head.
Then, laughing, he brought the head, and
laid it with the cutlass at Robinson's feet.
But what caused most wonder to the man
was how the savage whom Robinson shot
had been killed at so great a distance, and
he went to look at the body, turning it over
and over, and looking long at the wound in
the breast that the bullet had made, evidently
much puzzled.
Robinson then turned to go away, beckon-
ing to the savage to follow, but the man
made signs that he would bury the two
r
bodies in the sand, so that the others might
not find them if they followed. With his
hands he soon scraped holes deep enough to
cover the bodies, and in less than a quarter
of an hour there was hardly a trace left of
what had happened.
Calling him away, Robinson now took him,
not to his castle, but to the cave, where he
gave him food and water; and then he made
signs for him to lie down and rest, pointing
to a bundle of rice straw.
Soon the man was sound asleep. He was,
Robinson thought, a handsome and well-
made man; the muscles of his arms and back
and legs showed great strength, and all his
limbs were beautifully formed. As near as
Robinson could guess, he was about twenty-
six years of age, with a good and manly face,
and long black hair. His nose and lips were
like those of a European, and his teeth were
white and even. In colour he was not black,
but of a sort of rich chocolate brown, the
skin shining with health, and pleasant to look
upon.
HOW ROBINSON TRAINED FRIDAY
Whilst the man slept, Robinson went out
to milk his goats, at which work the savage,
having waked in about half an hour, found
him, and running up, threw himself on the
ground near Robinson's feet, one of which he
again raised as before, and placed on his
head. At the same time he made every kind
of sign of gratitude and submission.
In a little while Robinson began to speak
to him, and to try to teach him things. First,
he made him understand that his name was to
be 'Friday,' (that being the day of the week
when Robinson had saved him from a horrible
death). Then he taught him the meaning of
'Yes,' and 'No,' and to call Robinson,
* Master.'
Friday showed great quickness in learning.
78
He seemed to be happy and contented, and
free from trouble, except that the clothes
which Robinson made him wear gave him at
first great discomfort, for in those warm
parts of the world the natives are not used
to clothes, but always go about naked. And
perhaps they are healthier so, for when rain
comes, they can cover their skin with cocoa-
nut oil, and the wet then runs off their bodies
without chilling them, and they do not catch
cold by wearing damp clothes. Sometimes
they make drooping girdles of the broad
leaves of the banana, which are two or three
feet long, and wear these round their waists;
and sometimes, for ornament, they stick crim-
son flowers behind their ears, or hang them
round their necks. But other clothes they
have none to wear.
And indeed such things would only be in
the way, for the natives who live on the
coasts often pass nearly whole days swim-
ming in the warm sea. They are never afraid
of sharks, for they swim so well and so fast
that often they are able to kill the sharks,
diving under them, and stabbing them in the
belly with a knife.
Even the very little children swim almost
before they can walk, and whole families go
out for a day in the sea, as children and their
parents in England might go for a picnic.
One of their games, when a heavy swell is
rolling in, toppling over in cataracts of foam
as the waves reach the shallower water near
the shore, is to swim out, diving through the
broken water, and taking with them a light
plank. On this, when they have got beyond
where the seas break, they mount, and come
rushing in on the crest of the great waves,
shrieking with laughter when any one is
upset. It is glorious fun, they think.
The day following that on which Robinson
had saved Friday, they went out together to
see if there were any signs of the cannibals
still being on the island, but it was evident
that they had gone away without troubling
about the two men whom Robinson had killed.
Round the place where their fire had been,
were horrible remains of bodies, pieces of
flesh half eaten, or charred by the fire, skulls,
hands, and bones of legs and feet. Friday
made Robinson understand that these were
the remains of three prisoners who had been
brought over along with him, to be feasted
on.
Robinson's blood ran cold as he looked,
and the horror of the sight made him sick
and faint. He ordered Friday to collect all
the bodies and other remains, and to build a
fire to burn them, which Friday very cheer-
fully did. To him it was no great matter,
for, of course, all his life he himself had been
a cannibal, and he was quite used to such
scenes. Indeed, when they passed the spot
where the two men had been buried in the
sand, Friday pointed it out to Robinson, and
gave him to understand that he meant to come
back, and dig up and eat the bodies. This
filled Robinson with disgust and rage, and he
let Friday know that he would be severely
punished, perhaps killed, if ever such a thing
was done by him.
For some time Robinson did not trust
Friday, and did not allow him to sleep in the
same part of his castle with himself, out
kept him at night in a little tent outside the
fence. Every night he drew up the ladder,
so that if Friday ever should attempt to get
over, he would be sure to make noise enough
to wake Robinson. Other precautions also
he took, but soon he found that they were
not needed. Friday was quite faithful. And
he was never sulky nor lazy, but always
merry, and ready to do anything that Robinson
cold him. And as time went on, Robinson
did not doubt that if there should ever be
need for it, Friday would risk his life to save
his master.
At first when they went out in the woods
together, Friday was terrified each time that
Robinson's gun was fired. He had never
seen anything put into it, and it was more
than he could understand how things could be
killed merely by the noise and the flash of
fire. It seemed to him that the gun was
some sort of evil spirit that might do him
harm, and it was long before he could be
brought to touch one of them, though when
he was alone Robinson often heard him talk-
ing to them. Afterwards, when he could
speak English better, and knew more about
guns, he told Robinson that he used to ask
them not to kill him.
One thing that Robinson could never teach
Friday was to eat salt with his food. Salt is
a thing that the cannibals do not use, and
some of them, to this day, go so far as to say
that they do not care to eat a white man,
because he is too salt. A native of their own
race, they think, is much sweeter, though of
course they eat only men of a different tribe
whom they may capture during one of their
wars. But the only form in which they take
salt is as sea water, and that they use as
medicine, drinking it in large quantities till it
makes them sick.
Robinson asked Friday if his tribe ever
came to this island, and Friday said that they
did, and that he himself had often come over;
and he told Robinson that on one visit he
and his friends had eaten more than twenty
men. His tribe, he said, was very strong,
and fought well. Thus they took more
prisoners, and used the island oftener than
the other tribes, and it seemed that the far
side of the island, where Robinson had seen
so many remains of feasts, was the part that
Friday's tribe held as their own. Sometimes
other tribes used another island for their
feasts.
It troubled Robinson's mind greatly to hear
what Friday had to say about this custom,
but by little and little, as the weeks went
past, he got him to see how horrible a thing
it was to eat human flesh. From this begin-
ning", Friday gradually came to be in his
habits more like a white man, and teaching
him was a great joy to Robinson, who found
the years after Friday's arrival the happiest
of all that he had lived on the island. Not
only had he now help in his work, but he had
some one to talk to, for want of which, during
the weary years when he was alone, he had
almost forgotten his own tongue.
When they began easily to understand each
other, Robinson asked Friday how far it was
from the island to his country, and if the
canoes were not often lost whilst crossing.
Friday said there was no danger, and that no
canoes were ever wrecked; that always in
the morning the wind and the current set one
way, and the other in the afternoon. This
Robinson thought must have something to
do with the tides, but afterwards he learned
that the change of wind was only the differ-
ence between the sea breeze and the land
breeze, which blow time about, morning and
evening, in those parts. The change in the
current was due to the in-draft and out-draft
of a great river, off whose mouth the island lay.
Friday told Robinson much about his
country, and about his people, who he said
were Caribs. And a great way 'beyond
the moon,' by which he meant to the west,
he said that white men lived who had beards
such as Robinson wore. These white men,
he said, had killed very many natives, from
which Robinson fancied that they must be
Spaniards, who about that time were very
cruel to the people whose countries they had
taken.
Robinson asked if Friday could tell him
how he might get over to where the white
men lived, and Friday said it would be very
easy, if they had a big canoe. And again
Robinson began to make plans and to hope
to escape from the island. He showed
Friday the boat in which he and the crew
had tried to land from the wreck, the remains
of which still lay high up on the shore, out of
reach of the waves of any but a very high
tide, or of a storm worse than common.
Friday looked long at it without speaking,
till Robinson asked what he was thinking of.
Then he said that he had once before seen
such a boat, but for some time he could not
make Robinson understand where, or when,
he had seen it. Robinson thought he meant
that a ship had been driven ashore on the
coast, and that the boat, perhaps, had come
from her. But presently Friday spoke of the
men who had been in the boat, and whom he
and his people had pulled out of the sea.
He counted on his fingers to make Robinson
understand that there had been seventeen of
them.
'Where are they now?' Robinson asked;
and Friday said they still lived with his
tribe.
This put new ideas into Robinson's head,
for he thought that probably these men
might have belonged to the ship whose guns
he had heard, and to which he had after-
wards gone out in his boat as she lay on the
reef.
Friday said that his people had given the
men food, and had not hurt them.
'Why did they not kill and eat them?'
asked Robinson; and again Friday assured
him that they ate men only whom they took
in war.
It was some time after this that Robinson
and Friday chanced to be on the high hill at
the east end of the island. The day was
cloudless and very clear, with a light breeze
rippling the water, just such a day as that on
which, years ago, Robinson had seen land,
far over the sea. Friday gazed long in that
direction, and then began to jump and dance,
pointing to the dim blue coast. 'There my
country! See! There my people live!' he
said, his eyes sparkling with joy, and an
eager light on his face. ,
After this, for a time Robinson was not easy
in his mind about Friday. He had little
doubt that if he could get back to his tribe,
he would soon forget all he had been taught,
all that Robinson had done for him, might
even return, perhaps, with a hundred or two
of his friends, and kill and eat his master.
But in this Robinson was very unjust to
Friday, who had no such thoughts in his
mind as those of which he was suspected.
And this Robinson soon found out. One
day, as they walked up the same hill, he asked
if Friday would not be glad to be once more in
his own land.
1 Yes,' said Friday; 'very glad.'
4 Would you eat men's flesh again?'
'No, never,' said Friday, shaking his head
very much.
Then Robinson asked why he did not go
back. It was too far to swim, said Friday.
Robinson said he would give him a boat, and
Friday said, very well, he would go if Robin-
son came too.
'But your people will eat me,' said
Robinson.
'No, no,' Friday answered; 'you good to
me. They good to you.'
Robinson had then more than half a mind
to go, for if he could join the other white men,
he thought there would be a better chance
to build a boat big enough to sail in to
England.
So he took Friday to the place where he
kept the small canoe he had made, and
quickly he found that he was a very much
better boatman than Robinson himself, and
could make her go through the water nearly
twice as fast as Robinson was able to do.
But when Robinson asked if they might
try to go over in that boat, Friday's face fell.
She was too small, he said. Robinson then
showed him the first boat he had built, and
which had been lying on the sand now for more
than twenty-two years. That, Friday said,
was big enough. But the heat of the sun
by this time had so warped and cracked
her that, even if they could have got her into
the sea, she would not have floated.
Then Robinson told Friday that he would
build him a bigger boat, and send him home
in it, but that he himself would remain on
the island alone, as he had been before.
The poor lad's feelings were hurt at this,
and he asked, 'Why you angry mad with
Friday? Suppose master go, Friday go!
Suppose master no go, Friday no go!' And
he brought a hatchet, and said, 'You kill
Friday 1 not send him away.' Robinson was
much touched by this devotion, and after-
wards always had perfect faith in him.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A LARGE
BOAT; THEY RESCUE TWO PRISONERS
FROM THE CANNIBALS
But still the wish to leave the island was
as strong as ever, and together he and
Friday went to work to fell a tree from
which to build a boat good enough for their
voyage to the mainland. Friday soon
showed that he knew far better than
Robinson the kind of tree best suited for
boat-making, though he knew less about
hollowing it out; for he had never seen
tools suitable for such work. Friday pro-
posed to burn out the inside, but Robinson
showed him how to use the tools, and soon
he was very handy with them.
It took the two of them little more than a
month to finish the boat. And very hand-
some she looked, and very proud of her they
were. But it cost them quite a fortnight of
very hard work to get her into the water.
Below her they had to put large wooden
rollers, and then with strong sticks, inch by
inch, they levered and pushed her into the
sea, where she floated, very trim and ship-
shape, big enough to carry a dozen men.
Robinson was astonished at Friday's skill
in paddling so large a canoe. She seemed
to fly through the water, and he could turn
her with great ease.
• Will she do to go over in ? * he asked, and
Friday, grinning, said, 'Yes, even if big wind
blow.'
But Robinson did not mean to depend only
on paddling. He made Friday cut down a
straight young pine-tree for a mast, and
amongst the old ship's sails that he had kept
so long he found at last two pieces that were
not rotten. From these he made what is
called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and a small
foresail. It took him nearly two months to
cut and fit them, but when they were finished
and hoisted they acted very well, and when a
clumsy rudder had been fixed to the boat, he
found that she steered nicely, and was quite
safe and stiff in a fresh breeze.
Friday knew nothing- of sailing, and was
astonished to see the boat go so fast, but he
quickly learned to handle her quite as well as
Robinson could do. The only thing he could
not learn was how to steer by compass.
Six-and-twenty years had passed since
Robinson came to the island, and though
his hope of getting away was now great, he
still went on digging and sowing and fencing
as usual, and picking and curing his raisins,
in case by any chance he should still have to
stop where he was.
As the rainy season was nearly due, he
made Friday dig near the creek a kind of
dock in the sand for the new boat, just deep
enough for her to float in; and when the tide
was low, they made a dam across the end of
the dock to keep the water out. Then they
covered the boat over very thickly with boughs
V
of trees; and there she lay, quite dry and snug,
till the end of the wet weather, when it was
Robinson's plan to start for the mainland.
A week or two before the dry season again
came, Robinson meant to open the dock
and get the boat afloat once more. And to
be ready in plenty of time he began to lay by
a lot of food and other stores for use on the
voyage.
One morning, when he was very busy over
his work, he told Friday to go down to the
beach to see if he could find a turtle. Off
went Friday, but before he had been gone
many minutes, back he came running in a
great hurry, crying out' Master I Master! O
sorrow! O bad!'
'What's the matter, Friday?' asked
Robinson.
'Over yonder,' said Friday, pointing to the
west, and very much scared; 'over yonder,
one, two, three canoe.'
Robinson cheered him as well as he could.
'Well, Friday,' said he, 'we must fight
them. Will you fight?"
'Yes, Friday shoot,' he answered, 'but too
much great many come.'
1 No matter,' said Robinson, 'our guns will
frighten those we don't kill.'
Friday promised to stand by him to the
end, and to do just as he was bid.
Then Robinson loaded two guns with large
swan shot, and gave them to Friday, and
himself took four muskets, which he loaded
carefully with five small bullets and two
slugs each, and in each of his pistols he put
two bullets. Then he hung his cutlass by
his side, and gave Friday a hatchet.
When all was ready, he went up the hill
with his telescope, and saw that there were
in all twenty-one savages, with three pris-
oners. They had landed not far beyond the
creek, near a spot where thick bushes grew
almost down to the sea.
Giving Friday one of the pistols to stick in
his belt, and one of the muskets to carry,
they set off, each of them now armed with a
pistol and three guns, besides Robinson's
cutlass and Friday's hatchet. Robinson put
in his pocket a small bottle of rum, and gave
Friday a bag with more powder and bullets
to carry, and told him to keep very quiet, and
to be sure not to fire till Robinson gave the
word.
To get at the savages without being seen,
they had to go nearly a mile out of their way,
and being heavily laden, they could not go
very fast. During this walk, Robinson
began to argue with himself again, and to
think that perhaps after all it was no busi-
ness of his to go killing savages who had
never done him any harm, and who were
only doing what they and their people had
done for hundreds of years. They knew no
better, he said to himself, and why should he
kill them? His mind was so filled with
doubts, that he did not know what to do.
Finally, he decided that he would only go
near enough to see plainly what the savages
were doing, but that, unless there should be
some special cause for it, he would not attack
them.
When he and Friday got near the place
where the savages had lit their fire, Robin-
son sent Friday forward, to see what
was going on, and to come back and tell
him.
Friday crept on, and returned very quickly,
saying that the cannibals had already killed
one of their prisoners, and were eating him,
and that very soon they would kill the
second prisoner, who was lying near to
them. The second prisoner, Friday said,
was a white man.
This news at once changed Robinson's
plans, and he had no longer any doubt what
to do.
Creeping forward, he saw plainly through
his glass the white man lying bound hand
and foot on the sand. There was another
tree, Robinson noticed, with a clump of
bushes round it, some distance nearer to the
savages, and within very easy shot of-them.
To that he and Friday now crawled.
There was no time to lose, for when they
reached the tree, two of the savages had
gone to the white man, and were untying his
X
ankles. The other cannibals were all sitting
close together.
Turning to Friday, Robinson said in a low
voice,'Now do exactly as I tell you.' They
both took aim at the crowd of savages.
'Are you ready, Friday?' whispered
Robinson.
'Ready,' said Friday.
'Then fire 1*
Robinson's first shot killed one and
wounded two, but Friday's dropped two
dead, and three wounded. Snatching up
fresh guns, both fired again before the
savages who were not hurt could get on
their feet, for they were so taken by surprise
and frightened by the noise, that the poor
wretches hardly knew what was happening.
This time only two dropped, but many more
were wounded by the swan shot, and ran
about yelling till they fell from loss of
blood.
'Now, Friday,' said Robinson, taking up
one of the remaining loaded muskets,' follow
me.' And he rushed out of the wood, with
Friday close behind, and charged down on
the cannibals as fast as he could run.
The two men who had gone to kill the
white prisoner no sooner saw this than they
fled to the canoes, and three of the others
followed, and jumped into the same canoe.
Robinson bade Friday shoot at them, and
Friday, running forward, fired. All the men
in the canoe fell, two of them dead and one
wounded. The others seemed to fall from
fear, for they soon jumped up and paddled
away with all their might.
Whilst Friday kept on firing, Robinson
ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds,
helping him on to his feet, and giving him
some rum from the bottle he had brought.
The man, on being asked what countryman
he was, answered that he was a Spaniard,
and he began to thank Robinson for what he
had done. But Robinson, who could speak
a little Spanish, stopped him, saying, 'Senor,
we will talk afterwards. At present we must
fight' And he gave the Spaniard the cutlass
from his belt and a pistol, telling him, if he
Robinson ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds
had strength left, to go and do what he could
against the savages.
As soon as the man got the weapons in his
hands, he ran with fury at the cannibals and
cut two down, then turned, and with equal
fury attacked the rest.
Robinson now sent Friday for the muskets
which had been left under the tree, and
began quickly to reload them, giving Friday
the musket which he himself had been carry-
ing, but which he had not fired.
Meantime the Spaniard had attacked a
very big, powerful savage who was armed
with a club, and though with his cutlass he
had twice wounded the cannibal in the head,
yet from being bound so long the white man
was weak, and now looked like getting the
worst of it. For the savage, making a rush,
closed with him and threw him, and in the
struggle had nearly wrenched the cutlass
out of his hand, when the Spaniard suddenly
quitting his hold, drew his pistol and shot the
man through the body, killing him on the spot.
The ether natives were now scattered in
every direction, and Friday, running after
them with his hatchet, killed all of them
except one who had been wounded by the
Spaniard, and who, in spite of his wounds,
jumped into the sea and swam out to the
canoe in which were the two others who had
got away.
Friday advised Robinson to take another
of the canoes and go after them; and
Robinson agreed, for he thought that if any
escaped they would be certain to come back,
bringing hundreds of others to avenge the
death of their friends. So the two ran to
the beach and began to shove off a canoe.
But to their surprise, on the bottom of the
canoe lay another prisoner, an old man, tied
so hard, neck and heels, that even when his
bonds were cut he could not move. He
groaned and lay still, perhaps thinking that
he was only being untied to be killed.
Robinson handed the rum to Friday and
told him to pour some down the poor man's
throat, which seemed to revive him, for he
sat up.
No sooner did Friday look at him and
hear him speak, than he began to dance
and shout and laugh, and then kneeling
down, rubbed noses with the savage (which
is what these folks do instead of kissing
each other), and he was so excited that for
some time he could not explain what was
the matter. As soon as he could speak, he
told Robinson that the man whom they had
found was his father. The poor creature's
wrists and ankles were chafed and stiff from
being so long bound, and he was parched
with thirst.
Friday ran and fetched water for him, and
then with rum rubbed his father's wrists and
ankles. Those of the Spaniard also were
so dreadfully cut and swollen, and he was
so worn out with fighting, that Friday had
to carry him on his back to the canoe. Then
he paddled the two men along to the creek,
whilst Robinson walked. But both men
had to be carried up to the castle, and
Robinson was forced to rig up a tent for
them outside, because it was not possible
for him and Friday to lift them over the
fence.
The next day Robinson sent Friday to
bury the bodies of the savages who had
been killed, and to bring in the muskets.
When that was done, he made Friday ask
his father if he thought the savages were
likely to come back. The man said that
he thought they were so frightened by the
way they had been attacked, and by the
noise of the guns and the fire and smoke
coming from them, that they would probably
never return. He said he had heard them
call out that two evil spirits were attacking
them. And it turned out that the old man
was right, for no cannibals were ever again
known to visit this island.
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP; ROBINSON
SAILS FOR HOME
Soon after this Robinson had a long talk
with the Spaniard, who told him how he
and his comrades had been wrecked four
years since, on that part of the coast where
Friday's tribe lived. He said that they were
well treated by the natives, but that they
were put to very great straits now for want
of clothes, that their powder was finished,
and that they had lost all hope of ever getting
back to their own country. He himself, he
said, had been captured in one of the many
small wars that are always taking place
among the various tribes.
It struck Robinson that it might be
possible for him to get these men over to
his island, provided that he could be sure
of their good faith, and that when they
came, they did not take the island from him
by treachery. It was a risk, he thought,
but then, if he got so many men, it would
not be difficult to build a small ship that
could carry them all to England.
So he asked the Spaniard if he would
promise, and if he thought he could get
his comrades to take an oath that, if Robin-
son helped them, they would look on him
as their captain, and would swear to obey
him in all things. The Spaniard readily
promised for himself, and said that he was
sure his comrades would keep faith.
It was arranged, therefore, that in about
six months, when the next harvest was
reaped, and there would be plenty of food
for so many extra men, the Spaniard and
Friday's father should go over to the main-
land in one of the canoes which had been
taken from the savages.
Meantime, all hands set about the curing
of very large quantities of raisins, and much
other work was done to be in readiness for
the coming: of these men.
When the harvest was reaped, Robinson
gave the Spaniard and Friday's father each
a musket and a supply of powder and
bullets, and loaded the canoe with food,
enough to last them and the others about
a fortnight, and the two men set off for the
mainland in fine weather, and with a fair
wind.
It was about eight days after this, and
when Robinson had begun to look out for
their return, that one morning very early,
when Robinson was asleep, Friday came
running in, shouting, 'Master! master!
They come.' Up jumped Robinson, and
hurrying on his clothes, ran out.
Looking towards the sea, he soon made
out a sailing-boat making for the shore,
coming from the south end of the island,
but still some miles away. This was not
the direction from which the Spaniard and
his comrades would come, nor were they
likely to be in a sailing-boat. So Robinson
took his telescope, and went to the top of
the hill to see if he could make out who
were on board, before they landed.
Hardly had he got on to the hill when he
noticed a ship at anchor some distance from
the shore. She looked like an English
vessel, he thought, and the boat like an
English long-boat.
This was a wonderful sight to Robinson,
but yet he was not easy in his mind. It was
not a part of the world where an English
ship was likely to come, because in those
days they were nearly all Spanish vessels
that traded in these seas, and the English
and Spaniards were bitter enemies. What
could an English ship be doing here? There
had been no storm to drive her out of her
course.
Robinson feared that if she was English
there must be something wrong about her.
Perhaps, he thought, she was a Pirate. So
he was careful not to show himself or
Friday.
Presently, as he watched, he saw the men
What could an English ship be doing here?
in the boat run her ashore and draw her
up on the beach, about half a mile from his
castle. When they had landed, he could
easily see through his glass that they were
Englishmen.
There were eleven men, but three of them
had their hands tied behind their backs, and
were evidently prisoners. When the first
four or five men had jumped ashore, they
brought out these three, all the while ill-
treating them, and behaving as if they
meant to kill their prisoners. Friday was
sure that they meant to eat them.
Soon, without further harming the three
men, the others scattered about amongst
the trees near the shore, leaving the three
sitting on the ground, very sad-looking, but
with their hands now untied.
At the time the boat was run aground, it
was just high-water, and the two sailors
who had been left in charge of her, and who
had evidently been drinking too much rum,
went to sleep, and never noticed that the
tide was going out. When they woke, the
boat was high and dry, and with all the
strength of the whole crew they could not
move her, because the sand at that part of
the beach was very soft. This did not seem
to trouble any of them very much, for
Robinson heard one of the sailors shout,
'Let her alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float
next tide.'
All forenoon Robinson watched, and when
the hottest time of the day had come, he
noticed the sailors throw themselves down
under the trees, and go to sleep, some
distance away from the three prisoners.
Then Robinson and Friday, taking their
muskets and pistols, stole down cautiously
behind the three men, to try to speak to
them without the others knowing.
Robinson had put on his goat-skin coat
and the great hairy hat that he had made for
himself; and with his cutlass and pistols in
his belt, and a gun over each shoulder, he
looked very fierce.
The men did not see him till he spoke,
and they were so startled by his wild look,
and by the sight of two men armed to the
teeth, that they nearly ran away. But
Robinson told them not to be alarmed; he
was an Englishman, and a friend, and would
help them if they would show him how it
could be done.
Then they explained to him what had
happened. One of the three was Captain of
the ship that lay at anchor off the island. Of
the others, one was mate of the ship, and the
third man was a passenger. The crew had
mutinied, the Captain told Robinson, and
had put him and the other two in irons, and
the ring-leaders in the mutiny had proposed
to kill them. Now they meant to leave them
on the island to perish.
The Captain was so astonished at finding
anybody there who proposed to help him,
that he said in his wonder: 'Am I talking to
a man, or to an angel from heaven?'
'If the Lord had sent an angel, sir/ said
Robinson, 'he would probably have come
better clothed.'
Then he asked if the boat's crew had any
firearms, and was told that they had only
two muskets, one of which was left in the
boat. 'The rest should be easy, then,'
Robinson said; 'we can either kill them
all, or take them prisoners, as we please.'
The Captain was unwilling to see the men
killed, for he said if two of the worst of them
were got rid of, he believed the rest would
return to their duty.
Robinson made a bargain that if he saved
the Captain from the mutineers, and re-
covered the ship, he and Friday were to
be taken home to England in her, free of
cost; and to this the Captain and the others
agreed.
Then Robinson gave eack of them a musket,
with powder and ball, after which the Captain
and the mate and the passenger marched
towards the spot where the mutinous sailors
lay asleep. One of the men heard them
advance, and turning round, saw them, and
cried out to his companions. But it was too
late, the mate and the passenger fired, and
one of the ring-leaders fell dead. A second
-
man also fell, but jumped up immediately
and called to the others to help him. But
the Captain knocked him down with the butt
of his musket, and the rest of the men, seeing
Robinson and Friday coming, and knowing
that they had no chance against five armed
men, begged for mercy. Three others who
had been straying about among the trees
came back on hearing the shots, and were
also taken, and thus the whole crew of the
boat was captured.
The Captain and Robinson now began to
think how they might recover the ship.
There were on board, the Captain said,
several men on whom he thought he could
depend, and who bad been forced by the
others into the mutiny against their wills.
But it would be no easy thing to retake the
ship, for there were still twenty-six men on
board, and as they were guilty of mutiny, all
of them, if taken back to England, would
most likely be hanged. Thus they were
certain to make a fight for it.
The first thing that Robinson and the
others now did was to take everything out of
the boat,—oars, and mast, and sail, and rudder;
then they knocked a hole in her bottom, so
that she could not float. Whilst they were
doing this, and drawing her still further up
on the beach, they heard first one gun and
then another fired by the ship as signals to
the boat to return.
As she of course did not move, Robinson
saw through his glass another boat with
ten men on board, armed with muskets,
leave the ship, coming to bring the others
back.
This was serious enough, for now Robinson
and his party had to make plans whereby
they might capture also this fresh boat's crew.
Accordingly, they tied the hands of all the
men they had first taken, and sent the worst
of them to the cave under the charge Of
Friday and of one of the men that the Captain
said was to be trusted, with orders to shoot
any who tried to give an alarm or to escape.
Then Robinson took his party and the rest of
the prisoners into the castle, where, from the
rock, they watched for the landing of the
second boat.
The Captain and mate were very nervous,
and despaired of taking this fresh body of
men, but Robinson was quite confident of
success, and put heart into them by his
cheerfulness.
Of the prisoners in his castle, there were
two whom the Captain believed to be honest
men, and on their promising solemnly to
keep faith, and to fight for him, Robinson
released them.
The crew of the second boat, when they
landed, were terribly surprised to find the
first boat empty and stove in, and they were
seen anxiously consulting what to do. Then
they hallooed and fired volleys. Getting no
reply, they were evidently alarmed, for they
all jumped into their boat and began to pull
off to the ship. In a few minutes, however,
they seemed to change their minds, for again
they landed, this time leaving three men in
charge of the boat, and keeping her in
the water.
The other seven came ashore, and started
in a body across the island to look for their
lost comrades. But they did not care to ga
far, and soon stopped, again firing volleys
and hallooing. Getting again no reply, they
began to march back to the sea. Where-
upon Robinson ordered Friday and the mate
to go over the creek to the west and halloo
loudly, and wait till the sailors answered.
Then Friday and the mate were to go further
away and again halloo, thus gradually getting
the men to follow them away from the
shore.
This plan succeeded very well, for when
the sailors, thinking they heard their missing
friends hail, ran to find them, their way was
stopped by the creek, over which they had to
get the boat to carry them. They took with
them, then, one of the three men whom they
had left in the boat, and ordered the others to
moor the boat to a tree, and remain there.
This was just what Robinson wanted. And,
moreover, one of the men played still further
into his hands, for he left the boat and lay
down under a tree to sleep. On him the
Captain rushed, and knocked him down as he
tried to rise to his feet, whereupon the sailor
left in the boat yielded, the more readily that
he had joined the mutineers very unwillingly,
and was now glad of the chance to rejoin his
Captain.
Meantime Friday and the mate, by halloo-
ing and answering, drew the rest of the
boat's crew from hill to hill through the
woods, till at last they had got them so far
astray that it was not possible for them to
find their way back before dark. When they
did get back to where the boat had been left,
and found the men whom they had left in her
gone, they were in a terrible fright.
It was not difficult for Robinson and his
men to surround them, and it chanced that
the boatswain of the ship, who was the great-
est villain of the lot, and the chief cause of
all the trouble, walked in the darkness close
to the Captain, who jumped up and shot him
dead. The others then surrendered, believ-
ing what they were told, that they were
r
surrounded by fifty armed men. All begged
hard for their lives, and a few whom the
Captain said he could trust were set at liberty
on promising to help to retake the ship. The
others were bound and put in the cave.
Robinson and Friday remained on shore to
look after the prisoners, whilst the Captain
and the mate and the passenger, with those
of the crew who were trustworthy, having
patched up the damaged boat, pulled off in
her and in the other to the ship, which they
reached about midnight. When they were
a short distance off, the Captain made one
of the crew hail the ship and say that they
had brought off the boat and the men they
had gone in search of. Then both boats ran
alongside at once, one on each side of the
vessel, and before the mutineers knew what
was happening they were overpowered, one
or two of them being killed. Only one of the
Captain's party was hurt, the mate, whose
arm was broken by a musket-ball.
As soon as the ship was secured, the
captain ordered seven guns to be fired, that
being the signal he had agreed to make to
let Robinson know if he succeeded in taking
the ship.
Robinson's stay in the island had now come
to an end, after more than twenty-eight years,
for in a few days he and Friday sailed for
England in the ship. Some of the mutineers
were left on the island, and were afterwards
joined by the Spaniard and his comrades,
for whom Robinson left a letter.
Robinson did not forget, when he left, to
take with him the money and gold bars he
had got from the wreck of the Spanish ship,
and he took also, as a memento, the goat-
skin coat and the great hairy hat. But the
Captain was able before the ship sailed to
give him proper clothing, the wearing of
which at first put him to dreadful discomfort.
The voyage was a long one, but they
sighted the English coast at last.
It was thirty-five years since Robinson had
set foot in England. And that morning,
when at last, after the weary years of
exile, he again saw his native land, he laid
his head down on his arms and cried like
a child.
And, may be, you too some day may know
the joy of coming home, out of the land of
bondage.
Edinburgh: Printed by T. and A. Constable,

