the
LIFE
AND MOST SURPRISIlf*
s
OF
ROBIJYSOjy CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
-
JDubKn:
-Printed by "John Jones, 40. S, Gie.:t GeorgeVsfc
1819.
price, lound in Sluep, bd.—arirt is Grain, Cd.
TIM
LIFE AND ADVENTURES \
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen, who by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
maiden name was Robinson, I was called
Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are
commonly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards; what
became of the other I could never learnt
6
No charge nor pains were wanting in my
education. My father designed me for the
law, yet nothing coufcd serve me but I must go
to sea, both against the will of my father, the
tears of my mother, and the entreaties. of friends.
One morning my father expostulated very
warmly with me. What reason, says he, have
.you to leave your native country, where there
must be a more certain prospect of content and
happiness, to enter into a wandering con-
dition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He
recommended to me Agur's wish, Neither to
desire poverty, nor riches / that a middle state
of life was the most happy; and that the high
towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with mi-
sery and danger, and often ended with confu-
sion and disappointment. I entreat you, nay,
I command you, (says he,) to desist from these
intentions. If you will go, (added he,) my
prayers shall however be offered for your pre-
servation; but a timg may come, when, deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel.—He' pronounced these words with
such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off, and a little after, I in*
foi med my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolutions were so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage: which
7
if it did not prove prosperous, I would flever
-attempt a second. But my desire was as vain
«s my folly in asking. My motherpassionately
expressed her dislike to this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw that I was bent or my own
destruction, contrary to their will and my duty.
she would say no more, but leave me to myself
to do whatsoever I pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
one time bf ing at Hull, I met a school-fellow
of mine going along with his father, who was
master of a ship, to London, and acquainting-
him with my wandering desires, he assured me
of a free passage, and a plentiful share of what
was necessary. 'Thus, without imploring a
blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, I
took shipping on the first of September 1651.
Upon the 6th day, we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we ky wind-bound with
some Newcastle ships and there being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the seamen
forgot their late toil and danger, and spent
the time as merrily as if they had been on
shore. But on the eighth day, t'.iere arose a
brisk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding
it up the river; and it stilt increasing, our ship
rode forecastle in, and shipped several large
.fleas.
It was not long before horror seized the
searaeu themselves, and I heard the master ex-
press this melancholy ejaculation, Lord have
mercy upon us, we shall be all lost and undone!
for toy part, sick unto death, I ke.pt my cabin,.
'# A 4
8
till the universal and terribly dreadful appre-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, and there I was affrighted indeed. The
sea went mountains high: I could see nothing
but distress around us: two ships had cut away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean; and, to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more ter.
rifled. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded , which made the sailors often cry outj
She will founder: words I then Mas ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the master and the more
sobeT part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, That there zcasf cur feet zeater
in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
..fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump; and the men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la.
bour. While thus employed, the master espy.
ing some colliers, fired a gun as a signal of (lis.
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either the ship brokp, or
some dreadful thing happened, fell into a
swoon. Even in that condition of woe, no-
body-minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
9
with their feet, thinking me dead; and it was
a great while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when," upon the signal
.given, they ventured out their boat to save our
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain'had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast them
a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which
after great difficulty they got hold of, and wo
hauling them to us, got into their boat, and
left our ship, which we perceived sink within
less than a quarter of an hour; and thus f
learned what was meant by foundering at sea.
And now the men incessantly laboured to re-
cover their own ship; but the sea ran so high,
and the wind blew so hard, that they thought
it convenient to haul in shore, which with
great difficulty and danger at last we happily
effected, lauding at a place called Cromer, not
far from Winterton light.house; from whence
We all walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects
of pity, many good people furnished us with
the necessaries to carry us either to Hull or
London.
Strange! that after all this, I did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father ; who,
nearing of the ship's calamity, for a long time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared in his failed calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it; but my way ward
disposition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and couscienc*.
10
When we had been at Yarmouth three days'
I met my old companion, who had given ma
the invitation to go on board along with his
father. His behaviour and speech was altered,
and, in a melancholy manner he asked me how
I did? telling his father who I was, and how I
had made this voyage for a trial only to pro-
ceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gen-
tleman turning to me, said, Young man, you
ought never to go to sea any more, but to take
this for a certain sign, that you will never pros-
per in a sea-faring condition. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is a dif.
fefent case, said he, iLismy calling, and conse-
quently my duty y but as you have made this
voyage for a trial, you see whut ill luck heaven
has set before your eyes; and perhaps our mise-
ries have been on your account, like Jonah in the
thip o/T arshish. But pray, what are you, and
on whut account didyougo to sea? Upon which,
I very freely declared my whole story; at the
end of which he made this exclamation, Ye
sacred powers! what had I committed, that
jfluch a wretch should enter into my . ship, to
heap upon me such a deluge of miseries! But
soon recollecting himself, Young man, said he,
if you do not go back,depend upon it, wherever
you go, you will meet with disasters and disap.
pointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you. And so we parted.
1 thought at first to return home; but shame
opposed that good notion, as thinking 1 should
11
foe laughed at by my neighbours and acquaint-
ances. So strange is the nature of youth! They
are not ashamed to sin, but yet ashamed to re.
pent j and so far from being sorry for those
actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, I
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voy-
age, and a voyage I soon heard of, by my ac-
quaintance with a captaio who took a fancy to
me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast.man ; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without'any
expense j that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best merchan-
dise I could..:'. -
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked my captain for his offer, and acquaint,
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were
sent me, the greatest part of which my dear fa-
ther and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation,
how to keep an account of the ship's coursej
take an observation, and led me into the know.
ledge of several useful branches of the inathe-
maticks. And indeed this voyage made me
both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
bome fiye pounds nine ounces of gold dust,
for my adventure, which produced, at my. re,
IS
turn to London, almost three hundred pounds;
but in this voyage I was extremely sick, being
thrown into a violent fever through excessive
heat, trading upon the coast from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
But, alas! my dear friend the captain soou
departed this life after his arrival. This was a
sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go ano-
ther voyage with his mate, who had now got
command of the ship? This proved a very un-
successful one ; for though I did not carry a
hundred pounds of my late acquired wealth,
(so that I had two hundred pounds left, which
I reposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes
in this unhappy voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Salee rover; and in spite
of ail the haste we could make, by crowding
as much canvas as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us,1
so that we prepared ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des-
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
and wounded on both sides: but finding our-
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship dis-
abled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of success, we were forced to sur-
render; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. Our men
were sent to the Emperor's court to be sold
13
there; but the pirate captain taking notice of
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, f thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the prophecy
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition was better than I
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Some
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then
I should be set at liberty. But in this, I was
mistaken1; for he never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape.
No Englishman, Irishman or Scotchman here
but myself; and for two years 1 could see no-
thing practicable, but only pleased myself with
the imagination.'
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out
his ship as usual; and then he used constantly,
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would often send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before.mentioned, to catch a dish qS
issh for him. . , . , -. . - - . -..'*. v*
u -
One morning, as we were at sport, there
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the
shore; and rowiug, we knew not which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and hun.
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered a carpenter to
build a Httle state-room or cabin in the middle
of the long-boat; with a place behind it to
steer and haul home the main sheet, with other
conveniencies to keep him from the weather,
as also lockers to put in all manner of provi-
sions; with a handsome shoulderrof-mutfon.
sail, gibing over the cabin.
In /this, he frequently took us out a.fishing;
and one time, inyiting two or three persons f
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions ex-
traordinary; providing also three fusees^ with
powder and shot, that they might have some
sport fowling along the sea-coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now 1 began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor
to get some provisions on board, and to procure
r;ome powder and shot, pretending to kill sea-
curlews, which he innocently and readily agreed;
15
to. In short, being provided with all thing!
necessary, we sailed out.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
fishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
concealed the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far.
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tending to stoop for something, I seized Muley
by surprize, and threw him overboard. As he
was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which 1 took
out a fusee, and presented it at hjm: "Muley,"
said I, "I never yet designed to do you any
"harm, and seek nothing now but my freer
"dom. I know you are able enough to swim
"to shore, and save your life; but if you are
u resolved to follow me to the endangering of
"mine, the very moment you proceed, 1 will
J* shoot you through the head/i' The harmless
creature, at these words, turned himself from
me, and, I make no doubt, got safe to land.
Then turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he
trembled at the action; but i put him out of
aH---fear, telling him, that if he would be true
and faithful to me, I would do -well by him,
and not hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but
in the dark of the evening, 1 changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
a fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, 1 wa?
150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
16
dominions. I continued sailing for live daji
successively, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude, that if
any vessel was in chace of me, they would pro.
ceed no farther. 1
After so much fatigue and thought, I an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresk
water -T and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore : but no sooner did
the gloomy clouds of night begin to succeed
the declining day, than we heard such bark-
ing, roaring, and howling of wild creatures,
that one might have thought the very strongest
monsters of nature bad their residence there.
Poor Xury, who was almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night,
"Suppose F donH, Xury," said I, "and in the
"morning we should see men who are worse
"than those we fear, what then?" "0 deH
u we may give dem de shoot gun," said he^
laughing, "and de gun make dem all run
"away." The wit, and broken English whidh
the boy had learned among the captives of our
nation, pleased me entirely, and made me still
fonder of him than before. We could get but
little sleep all the night for the terrible hous-
ings they made; and indeed we were very
much affrighted.
'The next morning,'I was resolved to go on
shore to get in fresh water, and venture myself
among the beasts or savages, should either at.
17
1 tack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars, and bring me some. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
"away." This, indeed, increased my affection
for the child. "Well, dear Xury," said I,
"we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
"and they shall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms, and two
jars for water. I did not go out of sight of the
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
< wandered to it; and then running back to me
with great precipitation, 1 thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or
protect him from danger. As he came nearer
to me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot, like a
hare, but different in'colour, and with longer
legs; however, we were glad of it, for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what
added to our joy was, 'my boy assured me
there was plenty of water, and that he "saw
no wild mans." And greater still was our
comfort, when we found fresh water hi the
creek where we were when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place, I began to hbpe that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take us in.
18'
The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild
country, inhabited only by a few, that lies be.
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominion*
and the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From
this place, I thought I saw the top of the moun.
tain Teneriffe, in the Canaries, which made me
try twice to attain it, but as often was I driven
back, and so forced to pursue my fortune along
shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, but pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready to
go further inbut Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes were sharper thau mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should be devoured; "For look yon.
"der, mayster, and see de dreadful monster
"fast asleep on de side of de hill." Accord-
ingly looking where he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great
lion that lay on shore, covered as it were by a
shade of a piece of the hill. "Xury," said I,
"you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed. " Me kill him!" says
he, " he eat me at one mouthy' meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and a
good charge of powder, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head; but his
leg lyimg over his nose, the slug broke his
knee-bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
IS
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my sc.
cond piece, I shot him through the head, and
then he lay struggling for life. Upon this Xury
took heart, and desired my leave to go on
shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which, tak.
ing a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore
-with the other, and coming close to the lion,
put a period to his life, by shooting him again
through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesfi not being good to eat. Xury
"was like a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
hat wanting strength to perform it, he cut off
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how.
ever, that this skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day: when spreading it
on the top of our cabin, the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar,
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hopps to meet some European ship. If Pro-
vidence did not favour me, my next course was
to seek for the islands, or lose my life among
the negroes; in a word, either I must meet
with some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people stand on the shore looking at us; we
could also perceive they were black, and stark
naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but
Xury ciied, No, no; however, I approached
so
neater, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons ia
their hands, except one, who held a long
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with.
which they could kill at a great distance. -I
talked to them by signs, and made them sen-
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckoned
to me to stop my boat, while two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an
hour came back and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which we
kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears oa
either side, they brought the food to the shore,
laid it down, then went and stood a great way
off, till we fetched it on board, and then cams
close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them,
being all we could afford, two mighty creature*
came from the mountains, one as it were pur-
suing the other with great fury, which we
were the rather inclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped inta
the sea, wantonly swimming aboat, as thougk
the diversion of the waters had put a stop t«
their fierceness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expected, ord.'sired,
I shot him directly through the head, upoa
which he sunk immediately, yet rising agw»»
he would have willingly made to the shore, Imt
between the wound and the struggling of line
water, he died before he could reach it.
*1
It fs ImpossibUi to express the consternation
the poor npgroes were in at the firing of my
gun; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perctived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to them to draw near it with
* rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, whichmade
me desire, its skin; and the negroes seeming
to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and Tan with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, 1 took my leave, and,
after eleven days sail came in sight of the
Cape de Verd. But the great distance I was
from it, and fearing contrary winds would pre.
vent me reaching them, 1 began to grow me.
lancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden,
Xury cried out, " Master, master," looking as
affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them. But in vnin had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
bad not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both,
as signals of distress; upon which they very
kindly lay to, so that in three hours time F came
up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailor
tailed, and then I told him J was an English.
man, who had escaped from the Moors at Salee,
/upon which they took me kindly on board,
with all my effects.;
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or, All
Saints Bay, in twenty.two days after. And
here I cannot forget the generous treatment of
the captain. He would take nothing for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leo-
pard's skilly and thirty for the lion's. Every
thing he caused to be delivered, and what I
would sell, he bought. In short, I made 220
pieces of my cargo, and with this stock I en-
tered once more, as I may say, into the scene
oflife. i
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door
to an honest and kind neighbour, born at Lis.
bon, of English parents, w hose plantation join.
ing to mine, we improved very amicably toge-
ther. Both our stocks were low j and for two
years we planted only for food; but the third
year we planted some tobacco, and each of us
dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing
year for planting sugar-canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra..
zils. One day 1 went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
on gettiug it sent out to me; to which the good
gentleman readily consented, but would only
have me send for half my money, lest it should
miscarry, which, if it did, 1 might still have the
'remainder to support me; and so taking letter?
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myseM
no further about it.
And indeed, he not only procured the money
I had drawn for upon my captain's widow, but
sent me over a servant, with a cargo propor-
tionable to my condition. He also sent me
tools of all sorts, iron work and utensils ne-
cessary for my plantation.
Wealth now encreasing on me, and uncom.
mon success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
•f life my father so often recommended } yet
nothing would content me. Having lived four
years in Brazil, 1 had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with the
most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
& secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me they had a mii;d
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly s»ld, they would di.
tide among them; and if I would go their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the ne-
groes, without providing any stock. The thing
indeed was fair enough, had I been in another
condition : however, I conld not resist the pro-
posal, but accepted the offer, upon condition of
their looking after my plantation.
The ship being fitted out, anfl ay tilings
ready, we set sail the first of September 1659.
We sailed northward upon the coast, from
"Whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of land, we steered as though we were
bound for the island Fernand de Noremba, leav-
ing the islands on the east, and then it was we
met with a terrible tempest, which continued
for twelve days successively, so that the winds
carried us wheresoever they pleased. In this
perplexity one of our men died, and a man
and a boy were washed overboard. When the
weather cleared up a little, we found ourselves
upon the coast of Guiana. Upon this the cap-
tain gave reasons for returning; which I op-
posed, counselling him to stand away for liar.
badoes, which, as I supposed, might be at-
tained in fifteen days. So altering our course,
we sailed north-west and by west in order to
reach the Leeward Islands ; but a second storm
succeeding, drove us to the westward, so that
we were justly afraid of falling into the hands
of cruel savages, or the paws of the devouring
beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Lnndl which
he had no sooner said, than our ship >truck
upon a sand bank, and,Tn a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or the
main, inhabited or not inhabited, and we
37
down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then, with the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, I regularly laid them
in a circle between the piles, up to their tops,
which were more than five feet out of the earth,
and then drove another row of piles, looking
within side against them, between two or
three feet high, which made me conclude it a
little castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with.
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion-house; and this cost me many days'
labour and pains. One day in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning en-
sued, which put me in terror lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces.
sary subsistence, by killing my food, but even
blow up me and my habitation. To prevent
which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in or.
der to separate it, having by me near 1501b.
weight. And thus being established as king of
the island, every day I went out with my gun.
to gee what I could kill 'that was fit to eat, I
soon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing
I could better shoot off the rocks ijjuu. when in

the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-goat
suckling a young kid; which, not thinking
its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned j and
when I took the dead creature up, tfie young
one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted
the kid over the pales, and would willingly
have kept it alive, but finding it could not be
brougH to eat,-1 was forced to slay it also for
my subsistence.
Thus, entered into as strange a state as ever*
any man was in, I had most melancholy appre-
fiensionsconcerning my deplorable condition;
and many times the tears would plentifully rutt
down my face, when I considered how I was
debarred from all communication with human
kind. Yet while these desponding cogitations
Would seem to make me aecuse Providence,
other good thoughts would interpose and re,
prove me after this manner: "Well, supposing
"you are desolate, is it not better to be so
"than totally perish? Why should you com.
*' plain, When not only your life. rs preserved,
4< but the ship driven into your reach, in order"
u to take what was necessary out of her for a
"subsistence J" But to proceed: It was, by
the account I kept, the 30th of September, whea
I first landed on this island. About twelve
days after, fearing lest I should Ipse my reck-
oning of time, nay even forget the sabbath days,
for want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with
a knife npon a large post, in great letters, ' I
cams on shore, Sep. 30, 1669, aniTset it up ia
39
the similitude of across, on the sea shore where
I landed. Every day I cut a notch with my
knife on the sides of the square post, and that
on the Sabbath was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month, as long again
as that long one. In this manner, I kept my
calendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
of time. But had I made a more strict search
(as I did afterwards,) I need not have set up
this mark. For among the parcels belonging
to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I
found those very things I wanted; particularly
pens, ink, and paper ; also I found two or three
compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. Here I cannot
but call to mind our having a dog and two cats
on board, whom I made inhabitants with me in
my castle. Though one might think I had all
the necessaries that were desirable, yet still I
found several things wanting. My ink was daily
wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and thread to
mend or keep my clothes together: and parti-
cularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel, to remove
'the earth. It was a year before I finished my
little bulwark ; and having some intervals of re.
luxation, after my daily wandering abroad for
provision, I drew up this plan alternately, as
creditor and debtor, to remind me of the miee--
lies and blessings of my life,. under so tuany-
various circumstances.
c%
40
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a But yet I am pre.
desolate island, having served while my com.
too prospect of a wel- panlons have perished
come deliverance. iu the raging sea.
How miserable am I, Yet set apart to
singled out from the be spared from death,
enjoyment or company And He, who has so
of all mankind. preserved me, can de.
liver me from this con.
dition.
Like a hermit (ra. However, I have
ther should I say a food to eat, and even *
lonely anchoret) am a happy prospect of
I forced from human subsistence whilst life
conversation. endures.
My clothes, after At present I enjoy
some time will be worn what is absolutely
out, and then I shall needful; and the cli-
have none' to cover mate is so hot, that
me. had I never so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
When myammuniti- Yet even thus, I see
on is wasted, then shall no danger of any to
I remain without any hurt me, as in Africa;
defence against. wild and what if I had been
men and beasts. cast away upon that
coast?
I have no creature, Is there not God to
ao soul to speak to; converse with, and is
Bone to beg assistance not he able to deliver
41
from. Some comfort thee? already has he af-
Woold it be to resound forded theesustenance,
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where I till he sends thee a de-
might hope for relief. liverance.
And now, easing my mind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
•s possible.
I must here add to the description I hare
given of my habitation, that having raised ft
turf wall against the outside of it, I thatched
it so close as might keep it from the inclemency
•f the weather - 1 also improved it within, en-
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me practi-
cable. When I wanted a plank or a board, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
as thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could ma,ke no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of
time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me, being the result of vast. labour and great
diligence; which leaving for a while, and me
*0 the enjoyment of, I shall give the reader am
v
42
account of some parts of my journal from the
day of my landing, till the settling of my habi-
tation, as heretofore shewn.
—»©>*«—
. JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659, I, unhappy
Robinson Crusoe, having hufl'ered shipwreck,
was driven on this desolate island, which I
named the Desolate island of Dpspair, the rest.
of my companions being swallowed up in the
tempestuous ocean. The next day I spent in
consideration of my unhappy circumstances,
having no prospect but of death, either to be
starved with hunger, or devoured by wild
beasts or merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated, I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship did stand upright. At this
time, I lamented the loss of my companions, and
©urmisfortune in leaving the vessel, When 1 per-
ceived the ship,-as it were, to lie dry, I waded
through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther beingvery rainy ,and with scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, getting
what I could out of the ship. The weather very
wet and uncertain.
Oct. 25. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
Oet. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went in pieces, so that no.
tiling was seen of her but the wreck at low
water. This day I secured my goods from the .
inclemency of the weather.
Oct. 26.1 wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were good to eat, and in the af.
ternoon made me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; I then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I perceived
many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
c4
44
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the
12th, but omitted the 11th, which according to
my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 17.1 began to dig in the. rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup-
ply the place of the first, but with all my art I
could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 19. It was my fortune to find a tree
resembling what the Brazilians call an iron
tree. I had like to spoil my axe with cutting
it, it being very hard, and exceedingly heavy;
yet with much labour and industry I made a
44
Nov 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allowed
for enlarging my cave, that it might serve me,
not only for a ware house, but kitchen, parlour,
and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unless
the weather was so rainy that I could not lie
dry. So wet would it be at certain seasons,
that I was obliged to cover all w ithin the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags aud
large leaves of trees resembling a thatch.
Dee. 10. No sooner did I think my habita.
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top brokein, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and ti ouble to me before I could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and pasts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
*5
Dee. 20. Every thing I gist into its place,'
then made a sort of dresser, and another table.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, wounded another; I led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food
after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces.
Stvely hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part to keep within doors.
Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time
-was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house-pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I brought th^ra home, nursed them
till they could fly, and then they left me. Af-
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vuinly contriving to
make a cask, 1 may well say it was in vain, be.
cause I could neither joint the staves, nor fix.
the hi ads, so as to make it tight: so leaving
that, I took some goat's tallow 1 had by me,
and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myself with a lamp, which served instead of
candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as i supposed) for the fowls; so
immediately resolving to putguupowder into\^
46
I shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the consequence
would be. The rain had fallen plentifully a
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten 01 twelve ears' of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto, I had looked
upon the actions of this life no otherwise.thari
only as the events of blind chance and fortune.
But now, the appearance of this barley, flou-
rishing in a barren soil, and my ignorance in
not conceiving how it should come there, made
me conclude, that miracles were not yet ceased:
nay, I even thought that God had appointed
it to grow there without any seed, purely for
my sustenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears
through a grateful sense of God's mercies; and
the greater still was my thankfulness, when I
perceived about this little field of barky, some
rice stalks, also wonderfully flourishing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island;
and therefare made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks ;- but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag.
47
and then my admiration ceased, with my gratl.
tude to the divine Being, as thinking it was but
natural, and not to be conceived a miracle:
though even the manner of its preservation.
might have made me own it as a wonderful
event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the
ears of the corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice;
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labour; yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread,
and much longer time before I had any rice.
After thjs, with indefatigable pains and indus-
try for three or four months, at last I finished
my house on the 14th of April, having no way
to go into it, but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16, I finished my ladder, and ascend*
ed it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down.
on the other side, and descended into my new
habitation, where I had space enough, and so
fortified, that limbing could attack me without
scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm? For,
one time as 1 was at the entrance of my cave,
-there happened such a dreadful earthquake,
that not only the roof of the cave came tumbling
about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in a
grfcit amazement; and running to the ladder
c
48
and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew
it was an earthquake, the place I stood on sus.
taining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judgt of my terror when I saw
the top of a great rock roll into the sea; I then
expected the island would be swallowed up
every moment: and what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations aud disorders by this
tremendous accident.
For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, J
was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much afraid
lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation, should overwhelm me and it iu a,
la ting tomb.
It was not Ipng after, when a horrible tern,
pest arose, at the same time attended with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm,
continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was suc-
ceeded by abundance of rain. When the temr
pest was over, 1 went to my tent; but the rain
coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to rut a channel through my fortification, to
let the water out. It continued raining all that
jiighf, and some time the next day. 'Jhese ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
open place, walled round, to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain- would
49
fall on my habitation anil me, and swallow up
all in its bowels.
April 16—20. These days I spent in con.
triving how atid in what manner I should tit
my place of abode All this while, I was un.
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
1 looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. 1 had several de.
bates whether 1 should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I was, till I
found out a convenient place where | might
pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolu.
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last 1 found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As 1 walked along the sea-shore, I
found a barrel of gunpowder, arid several
pieces of the wreck which the sea had flung
up. Having secured these, i made to the ship,
whose stern was torn oil", and washed a great
distance ashore; but the rest lay in the sands.
This, 1 suppose, was occasioned by the earth-
quake. 1 now resolved to keep my old placa
of abode: and also to get to the ship that dayj
fcut found it impossible.
50
May 3. This day I went en board, and with
my saw sawd off one of the beams, which kept
her quarter-deck. I then cleared the sand till
flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wholesome. The same day, I also caught
a young dolphin.
May 5. This day also I repaired to the
wreck, and sawed another piece of timber;
and when the flood rame, I made a float of
three great planks, which were driven ashore
by the tide.
May 6—9. These days, I brought off the
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow,
and carried two planks to land, having made a
way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—13. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off' great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on pur-
pose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day,I worked on the wreck,
and with great difficulty loosened some things
so much with the crow, that at the first blow-
ing tide, several casks floated out, and several
of the seamen's chests; yet that day nothing
came to land but pieces of timber, and a hogs-
head which had some pork in it. I continued
working to the 15th of June; (except neces-
sary times for food and rest) and had I known
how to build a boat, 1 had timber and planks
enough j I had also near 100 weight of sheet
lead. 1
51
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
>ea-side, 1 found a large tortoise or turtle, be-
ing the first 1 had seen on the island, though,
as I afterwards found, there were many on the
other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it,
found in her three score eggs, and her ttesh the
most sarory and pleasant 1 ever tasted in my
life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being
a continual rain: and it was somewhat moro
chilly and cold than usual. -
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a
trembling and shivering.-
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain, and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed
to God more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy
in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 2-1. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours,
cold and hot fils, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak, yet I
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought it
hnme, and broiled some of it: 1 would wil-
lingly havo stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague; thirsty, yet could rot help myself to
52
water i prayed to God in these words: Lordfy
pity, look upon me: Lord have mercy upon me!
have mercy upon me! After this I fell asleep,
which, when 1 awaked, I found had much re-
freshed me.
I rose up in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper,
it caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases. 1 then
went to my chest, in order to tind some, where
heaven, no doubt, directed me to find a cure,
both for soul and body; for there I found one
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had nei.
ther leisure nor inclination to look into; I
took both the tobacco and that out of my chest,
and laid them on the table. Several experi.
mentsdid I try with the tobacco: First, I took
a piece of leaf, and chewed it; but it bnng
very green and strong almost stupified me:
Next, I steeped it iu some riim an hour or (wo,
resolving when I went to bed to take a dose of
it: and, in the third place, I burnt some over
a pan of fire, holding m.y nose over it so long
as 1 could endure it without Suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open it, but there appeared to me these words,
Call on me in the day of trouble, and I trill
deliver thee, and thou shall glorify me.
At first, this sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart: but it soon wore off
53
again, when I consider (he word detiver was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised ttesh to eaf,
Can God spread a table in the wilderness? In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this desolate Island? How.
ever, the woTds would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upou
me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco
had dozed my head, I was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, and implored the promise that God
had made to me in the holy Scriptures, that if
I called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me. With much difficulty, I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the to.
bacco, which flying intomy head, threw me into
such a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock
the next day before I awoke; or, rather, I
believe, I slept two days, having certainly lost
a day in my account, and I could never tell any
other way. When I got up, my spirits were
lively and cheerful; my stomach much better,
being very hungry; and, in short, ro fit re-
turned the next day, which was the 99th, but
I found myself much altered for the better.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very
weak. In this condition, I pften thought of
these words, 1 will deliver thee: and while at
sometimes I would think of the impossibility
of it, other thoughts would reprehend me, for
disregarding th« deliverances I had received,
even from the most forlorn and distressed con-
54
dition. I asked myself, what regard have I
had to God for his abundant mercies I Have I
done my part ?- He has delivered me, but I have
hot glorified him; as if I had said, 1 had not
owned and been thankful for these as deli-
verances, and how could I expect greater? So
much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sick-
ness in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa.
ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn.
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this, I
begged ot God to assist me with his holy Spirit
in returning to my duty. One day, in peril*
sing the Scriptures, 1 came to these words, Ha
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give re-
pentance, and to give remission: Immediately I
laid down the hook, and, with uplifted hands
to heaven, loudly cried, 0 blessed Jesus, thou
son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance: And,nowindeed,
I prayed with a true sense of my condition,and
a more certain hope, founded on the word of
God. Now I had a different sense of these
words, Call on me, and I icill deliver thee,
that is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppiesseU my sinful soul, and not from a soli.
tary life: In a word, I came to this conclusion,
55
55
blessing than a deliverance from affliction.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it car-
tied off the fit, it very much weakened me; and
I had frequently convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time. From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially
when it was attended with storms and hurri.
canes of wind was most pernicious to health.
1 had now been above ten months in the
island ; and as I never had seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole
monarch; and as I grew better, having se-
cured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to
make new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey- I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my
xafts cin shore; and travelling farther, found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little broeik of running water,
on the bank of which were many pleasant sa-
vannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and covered
-with grass. On the rising parts, where 1 sup.
posed the water did not reach, 1 perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. Several other plants 1 likewise found,
the virtue of which 1 did not understand. I
56
searched a longtime for the Cassava root, which
I knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time 1 knew not
what they were; likewise I saw several sugar-
canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
With these few discoveries, I came back that
njght, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the
same way, but farther than the day before, f
found the country more adorned with woods
and trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on rh»
ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe and very
rich, spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes 1 found of excellent use;
for when 1 dried them in the sun, which pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very wholesome and nourishing, and
served me in those seasons when no grapes worn
to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended
up a tree, and slept very comfortably, though
it was the first time L had slept out of niy ha-
bitation. And whpn the morning came, 1 pro-^
ceeded with great pleasure on my way, travel-
ling about four miles, as I imagined, by the
length of the valley. At the end of this valley
I came to an opening, where the country
seemed to descend to the west; th^re I found
a spring of fresh water, proceeding out of the
57
tide of the hill, with its crystal streams running
directly east. And indeed here my senses
were charmed with the most beautiful land.
scape nature could afford ; for the country ap-
peared so flourishing, green and delightful,
that to me it seemed like a planted garden. I
then descended on the side of that delicious
vale, when I found abundance of cocoa, orange,
lemon, and citron trees, but very wild and
barren at that time. As for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now 1
was resolved, to carry home and lay up a store
of grapes, limes and lemons, against the ap-
proaching wet season. So laying them up in
separate parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me, I returned to my little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey. Be.
fore 1 got home, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those, 1 could bring
only a few.
July 10. Having prepared two bags, I re-
turned thither again, but to my great surprise,
found all the grapes spread about, trod to
pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild beasts thereabouts.
To prevent this happening again, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out branches of the tree, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure
and dry in the sun; and having well loaded
m
myself with limes and lemons, I returned once
more to my old place of residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of thi3
valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was settled
in the worst part of the country, and there-
fore was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though
it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
where there was a possibility, soma time or
other, a ship might either be driven or sail by;
and that to inclose myself among hills and
woods must certainly put an end to my hopes
of deliverance; I resolved to let my castle re-
main where Providence had 'first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was I with this place, that I
made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked and tilled with bulrushes: and
having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I
began to enjoy my labour. .'
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry,-1
took them from the trees, and they proved ex.'
cellent good raisins of the sun: the most of
which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so, by which I saved the best part of my
winter food. . V
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
"yet having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I-
59
was obliged to return to «ny old castle, the
rain continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I found my family to in.
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
from me, and which I thought had been dead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that I was forced to kill.
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
terinin.
To the 36th of this month, I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times' I shot a goat, and
afterwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of rtgulating my food was thus: a
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast; a
piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or4 three turtle eggs for my
supper. While the rain lasted, I daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and,
by degrees worked it on towards-one side of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and out this way. But after I had doue
this, I was troubled to see myself thus ex-
posed; though I could not perceive any thing
to fear, a goat being the biggest creature I had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up the notches on my
post; they amounted to 365, I concluded thin
60
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there-
fore, humbly prostrating myself on the ground,
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgments upon me, and praying to Jesus
Christ to have mercy upon me, I fasted for
twelve hours till the going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes,
laid me on a bed, and with great comfort took.
my night's repose. Till this time, I seldom had
distinguished the Sabbath.day; but now I
made a longer notch than ordinary for the days
of rest, and divided the weeks as well as I
could, though I found I had lost a day or two
in my account. My ink failing soon after, I
omitted in my daily memorandum, things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of
my life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared
now regular to me, and experience taught me
how to provide for them ; yet in one thing I
am going to relate, my experience very much
failed me. You may call to mind, what I
have mentioned of some barley and rice which
I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the
sun's being in its southern position, going from
me, together with the raius, made me con-
clude it a very proper season to sow it. Ac-
cordingly 1 dug up a piece of ground, with my
wooden spade, and dividing it in two parts,
sowed about two-thirds of my seed, preserving
by me a handful of each. And happy it was
ldidsoj for 110 raius falling, it was choked
61
ap, and never appeared above the earth till the"
wet season came again, and then part of it
grew, as if it had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
toy bovver, I there sowed the rest of my seed
ia February, which, by having the rainy months
of March and April to water it, yielded a no-
ble crop, and sprung op very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out the
proper seasons to sow it in, and that I might
expect every year two seed-times and two har-
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out lika
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree I cut them from ; but
they grew so regularly beautiful, that the/
made a most lively appearance, and so
nourished in three years time, that I resolved
to cut more of them; and these soon grow-.
tog made a glorious fence, as afterwards 1 shall
observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter^ as in Europe, but into wet
and dry seasons, as in this manner.
From ( February 15,) Hamy, sun coming near

62
From (April 15, > Dry, sun getting north
To (August 15, ) from the line, 4 months.
rrom 5^"^'w< 15, £ Wet, the sun being then
To (October 15, \ come iac/c, 2 months.
From iOclober 15, ) Dry, sun running south
To (February 15,J o/iAe toe, 4 months.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued orceased toblow.
But having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, I took care before hand to
furnish myself with provisions: and, during
the wet months, sat within doors as much as
possible. At this time, I contrived to make
many handy things that I wanted, though it
cost me much labour and pains, before I could
accomplish them. The first I tried was to
make a basket; but all the twigs I could get,
proved so brittle, that I could not then per-
form it. It now proved of great use to me,
that when a boy, I took great delight in stand.
ing at a basket-maker's, in the same town
where my father lived,toviewhismenat work:
like otherboys, being curiousto seethe manuer
of their working these things, and very officious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it,
and wanted nothing but the tools. And it
coming into my mind, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes, might be as
tough as a. sallow willow, or osiers growing in
England, i resolved to make an experiment,
and went the next day to my country seat,
aud found some fit for my turn; and after cut-
63
ting down a quantity toith. my hatchet, I dried
tiiem in my pale, and, when (it to work with,
carried them to my cave, where I employed
myself in making several sorts of baskets, in-
'somuch that I could put in whatsoever I pleased.
It is true, they were not cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
Bui still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle,
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: I
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but fortius I afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my se.
cond row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my in.
tention, and taki:tg my dog, gu'i, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my iwwer stood, I came within view of
th' sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, I fairly descried laud, extending
from the W. totheS. VV.about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded but could not sny whether it
was an island or a continent. Neither could I
tell what this place might be; only thought it
was part of America, and where I might have
been in a miserable condition had 1 landed.
O 2
04
Again I considered, that if this was the Spa-
nish coast, certainly, one time or the other, I
should see some ships pass by; and if it was
not, then it must be the savage coast, between
the Spanish country and Brazil, which abounds
with cannibals or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty which'
made me long for one to be my companion;
but it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I k»pt him at
home spine years, before I could get him to call
me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of
hares and foxes as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion; far abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. In
this journey I did not travel above two miles &
day, because I took several turns and wind.
ings, to see what discoveries I could make, re.
turning weary enough to the place where I de-
signed to rest all night, which was either in a
tree, or to a place which I surrounded with -
•takes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprize me. When I came to the sea-shore, I
was amazed to see the splendour of it. Its strand
was covered with shells of the most beautiful
65
fish, and constantly abounding with innumera.
ble turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
1 might have shot as many as I pleased, but
was sparing of my ammunition, rather choos-
ing to kill a she-goat, Which I did with much
difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation -was so
much to my liking, that I did not repine at my
being seated on the worst part of the island.
I continued my journey, travelling about twelve
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.
As I had a constant view of the country, I
thought I could not miss my way; but scarce
had I travelled three miles, when I descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, f was obliged-(o
return to my post by the tea-side, and so back-
wards the same way I came. In this journey
my dog surprized a kid, and would have killid
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me
after my ammunition was spent, I look this
opportunity of beginning: and, having made
66
a collar for this little creature, with a string
made of rope-yarn, I brought it to my bower,
and there inclosed and left him ; and having
spent a month in this journey,' at length I
returned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I returned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my hammock. After my journey I
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid I had left in
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa.
66
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
and fond, that it commenced one of my do.
mestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 30th of Septem.
ber in the most solemn manner, as usual, it
being the third year of my abode in the island.
I spent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving thanks for making this soli-
tary life as agreeable,*and less sinful, than that
of human society; and for the communica-
tion of his grace to my soul, in supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend
upon his Providence, and hope for his eternal
presence in the world to come.
Indef-d, I often did consider how much more
happy I was, in this state of, life, than in that
67
accursed manner of living I formerly used;
sometimes, however, when hunting, or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would
break out upon me, and my very heart would
sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I
was a prisoner locked up within theeternal bars
and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wil.
derness, without hopes, and without rede mp.
tion. In this condition,. I would often wring
my hands, and weep like a child: and even.
sometimes in the middle of my work, this fit
would often take me; and then 1 would sit
down and sigh, looking on the ground for an
hour or two together, till such time as my grief
got vent jn a flood of tears.
One porning, as I was fully employed in
this manner J opened my bible, when imme-
diately \ fixed my eyes upon these words I
will never leave thee, nor forsake thee! Surely,
if God does not forsake me, what matters
it, since he can make me more happy in this
state of life, that if I enjoyed the greatest
splendour in the world? And whenever X
opened or shut the Bible, I blessed kind Pro.
Tidence, that directed my good friend in Eng.
land to send it among my goods without my
order, and for assisting me to save it from tha
power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my se-
veral daily employments were these: Firstt
My duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
holy Scriptures, which I did twice or thrice
68
every day; Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
being in its height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out; so that I had but four hours in
the evening to work in: and then ithe want of
tools, of .assistance, and skill, wasted a great
deal of time to little purpose, I was no less
than two and forty days, making a board fit for
a long shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools
and saw-pit, would have cut out of the same
.tj^e in half a day. It was of a large tree, as
my board was to be broad. I was three days
in cutting it down, and two more in lopping
off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of
timber. Thus I hacked and hewed off each
side, till it became light to move; then I turn-
ed it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
hoard from end to end, then turned it down-
ward, cutting the other side, till I brought the
plank to be abontthree inchestfcick.andsirooth
on both sides. Any body may judge my great
labour a<yj fatigue in such a piece of work;
hut tbb-I went through with patience, as also
many other things, that my circumstances made
necessary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had th«
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. But
69
fcere I met with a new misfortune, for the goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
the blade, kept it so short that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers ; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all
night, so frightened these creatures that I got
entirely rid of them, .
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemiesappeared; to wit, whole flocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned, to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwardsservedihem
as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror to others. And,
indeed, so good an eflect had this, that they
not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting
down my first crop, it was so slender. The ears
1 carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain. out
with my hands, instead of threshing it; and,
when my harvest was over, found my half-peck
of seed had produced nearly two bushels of rice,
and two bushels and^a half of barley. And
now I plainly foresaw, that, by God's good-
ness, I should be furnished with bread; but
70'
yet I was concerned, hecause I knew not how
to grind or make meal of my . corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into breatfj I would
not, however, taste any of thecrop, but resolved
to preserve it against next season, and, in tha
mean while, use my best endeavours to provide
myself with other food.
But where were my labours to end ? the want
of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to
dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied,
by dragging over the corn a great bough of
,a tree. When it was growing, I was forced
to Vence it; when ripe, to mow it, carry it
home, tiiiesh it, part it from the chaff, and
save it. And, after all, I wanted a mill to
grind it, a sieve to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it.
This s«tmy brains to work, to find some expe-
dient for every one of these necessaries, against
the next harvest. N.
And now having more seed,my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which f. sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a.good hedge. This took me up
three months : by which time, the wet seasou
coming on,.and the rain keeping me withiu
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self; and, while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, teaching him to know
and speak his own name Poll, the first welcome
word 1 ever heard spoken in the island. I had
71
"been a long time contriving, how to make
earthen vessels, which I wanted extremely ; .
and when I considered the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt but, if I could find any such
clay, I might botch up a pot, strong enough,
when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and to
hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be s'horl, the clay I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see whiit awkvvard ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed, so
that I think it was two months before I could
perfect any thing; and even tl.en, but two
clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I \eiy gently placed in wicker .
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw; ajid these I presumed
would hold my dried corn, aud perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised. As lor the
smaller things, I made them with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them.
very hard,
'Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necea-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
n,one of these could do. It once happenedT
that as I was putting out my lire, I found
therein a broken piece of one of my vessels,
burnt hard as a fock, and red as a trie. ThSf
made me think of burning some pots; and
having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them
with lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and two
or three pots in a pile crtie upon another. Tho
fire I piled round the outside, and dry wood on
the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot, and found that they did not crack at all:
and when I perceived them perfectly red, I
let them stand in the fire about fire or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of
the heat, and would have run to glass had I
suffered it; upon which, I slacked my fire by de-
grees, till the redness abated; and watching
them till the morning, I found I hud three very
good pipkins, and two earthen pots, as wety
burnt and fit for my turn as I could desire.
Tire first use to which I turned my pipkins,
was to make some salt, which I had long want-
ed. For this purpose, I filled them with sea.
water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving, at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
good forgiving a relish to my food.
TheneXtconcernI had, was to get meastone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill
to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a great loss,
as not being fit for a stone-cutter; and many
«lays I spent to find out a great stone big enough
to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar, and
strong enough to bear the weight of a pestle,
Umt would break the corn without filling it with
sand. But all the stones of the island being
of a mouldering nature, rendered: my search
fruitless; and then I resolved to look. oat a.
great block of hard wood; which having found,
I formed it by my axe and hammer, and then,
with infinite labour, made a hollow in it, just as
the/ Indians of Brazil make their canoes. When
I had finished this, I made a great pestle of
ironwopd., and then laid them up against my
^succeeding harvest. . ..;'-- - -.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to
sift my meal and part it from the bran and husk.
Having no "fine thin canvas to search the.meal
through, I could not tell what .to.do. WhaA
linen I had was reduced to rags; I had goat's
hair enough, but neither tools to work it, nor
did I know how to spin it. At Jength,.f re-
membered I. had some neck-cloths of calico or
muslin'of the sailors, which.! had brought out
of the ship, and with these, t made: three small
sieves proper enough for the work.
I oome now to consider. the baking part.
The want of an oven 1 supplied, \ by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep.
When J had a mind to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, the tiles of which I had
made myself, aud when the wood was burnt
into live coals, 1 spread them over it, till it be.
eame very hot; then sweeping them away, I.
set down my loaves, and whelming <iown..the
earthen pots upon them, drew the ashe.s aijd
coals all around the outsjdes of the pots to con..
tiuuc t&e'heat;' and in 'this uianuer 1 baked my
barley Io*ves, A well as if I had been a com-
plete p»ttty.codVv and also made of the ride,
several cakes arid puddings.
It ft nriWonder' that all tbVse thWgtftrJcfc me
vp the best patf Of' a yeaV, sirice What iflWK.
Mediate time I had, was bestowed in managing
my aw harvest and husbandry; for in ihe
proper seatson; p reaped my corn, carried rt
home, aUd laid it up in the eat; in my large
baskets, till I had time to' rub, instead of
threshing it. Antf no# indeed, my dorW'en.
"creased so much, that it produced me twenty
bushels of barley, and as much of rice,' that' I
not only began t» use it freely, bat was thinks,
ing how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
sow as much ait a time as would be sufficientfffr
a* whole* yean
is while, the prospect of latid, which I
i from the other side of the island, rati
j wind. I still meditated a deliverance
from this place; though the fear of greater mis,
fortunes might have deterred me from it; For,
allowing that I had attained that plate, I rar*,
the hazatd of being killed and eaten by tho-
devouring cannibals; and If they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans*had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwlth.
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
upon that shore. I now wished for the! long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
- on the shore in the late storm. She Was
i; bat' her bottom being



75
tamed op by the impetuosity and surge. of the
-waves and wind, I fell to work w ith all the:
strength I had, and with levers and rollers I
had cut from the w ood, to turn her, and repair
the damages she had sustained. This work
took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so to
make it.fall down, setting pieces of wood to
thrust and guide it in the fall. But after this
was done, I was still unable to stir it up, or to
get under it, much less to move it forwards
towards the water, and so I was forced to give
it over. ,
. This disappointment,however,did not fright-
en me. I began to think, whether it was not
possible for me to make a canoe or Perigaa,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a tree.
But here I lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to
inove it into the water when it was made! How-
ever, to work I went upon it, stopping all the
enquiries I could make with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it,
I'll warrant I'll find some way or other to get
it along when it is done. -
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I backing and
Jaewing it at the bottom, fourteen more la
76
Cutting off the branches and limbs, and *
whole month/in shaping it like the bottom of
a boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such
a manner, as that it was big enough to carry
26 menj much- bigger than any canoe I erer'
saw in my life, and consequently sufficient to
transport me and all my effects to that wished
for shore I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which Was a rising hill be-'
tween this boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the surfa'ce jf the *
earth, and made a declivity. But w'ien this
was done, all the strength I had was as in- '-
sufficient to move it, as it was when 1 first
made the attempt. I then proceeded to mea-
sure the distance of ground, resolving to make
a canal, in order to bring the water to the ca-
noe, since I could not bring the canoe to the
water. But as this seemed to be impracticable
to myself alone under the space of eleven or
twelve years, it brought me into some sort of
consideration; so.that I concluded this also to
be impossible, and the attempt vain. I now:
saw, and not before, what sttfpidity it is to
begin work before we reckon its costs, or
judge rightly our own abilities to go through
with its performance.
In the height of this work ray fourth year ex-
pired from the time X was cast ou tkU UiaudL
77:;
At triiMime I did not forgpt my anniversary;
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes bejng frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing
.to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, Between me,
and thee there is a gulpk fixed. And indeed I
was separated from its wickedness too, having
.neither the lust. of the fii-sh, the lust tff the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to
covet, being lord, king and emperor over the
whole country I had hi possession, without
dispute and without controul: 1 had loadings
of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abund-
ance, and grapes above measure. What wai
all the rest to me? the money I had, lay by me
as despicable dross, which I -would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes or a hand.
mill to grind my corn: in a word, the nature
and experience of these things dictated to me
this just reflection, That the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. Every time [ sat down to meat, I
did eat with.thankfulness, admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who, in this wildetnes.
had spread a table to me. And now I con*
sideYed what 1 enjoyed, rather than what I
wanted, compared my present conditien with
what I at first expected it should be; how £
e3
should have dom», if I had goj jiothing out ft
the ship; that f must have perished oafore J
|iad caught fis& or turtles; or lived, had %
founnth'em, like a mere savage, by eating theiji
ra w, and pulling then) to pieces with my claws,
like abf;as"t. I'next compared my station to
that which I deserved; )>ow undotiful I had
been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of Qoi\; how void of ev«ry thing that was
good; and .how ungrateful for those abundant
mercies [ had received from heaven, being fed',
as it were, by a miracle, even as great as
Elijah's being fed by ravens; and cut on *
pi See where there are no venomous creatures to
poison or devour me j in short, making God'a
tender mercies matter of great consolation,' I
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to con-
tentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with wa»
ter I made last as'lpng as ( could, I used t«
jninute down the days of the month on wbjcli
any remarkable thiirg happened.
The next thingthat wasted after my ink, was
the biscuit, which I had brought out of the ship s
and though I allowed myself but one cake a dajr
fjor above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out
fft bread for nearly a year, before I got arty
«orn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to de-
cay, aud my linen had been gone long before.
However, 1 had preserved about three dozen
of the sailors' chequered shirts which proved &
^reat refreshment to me, when the violent
•fre.ams of the swi wpuld not Snfler me to bear
Jiny gf the seanae,n's heavy watch coats; which
.made me turn tailpr, and, .after a miserable
itotcjiing manner, convert them to jackets. X.o
Reserve my-head, I made a cap of goatskins,
>v ith tbe h^ir outwards to keep out the rain;
Srbtc^i indeed served me ao iHjeil, tha* after.
.jftfir^? I made a waistcoat arid ppenjtneed
^eeclw of the same; .Apd ft\mu J contrived
a Sftr.t of umbrella, cpveriRg it spitb skins,
.y hifih .n^t pnly Jiept out the *eait of the son,
.buttle rain also. Thus being easy and settled
i» my mind, my chief happiness was to con.
*«Tse with iGod, in most iieaveiily and com*
/•ytable ejaculations.
For five years after this, I can apt aay any e*.
traordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
- employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
-year's provision before-hand. But though I
was disappointed in my-first cape*, I made it,
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size: and it was two
years before I bad finished it. But as I per.
•Wiped it would in no wise answer my design of
sailing to the other shore, my thoughts, were
confuied to take a tour round the island, to see
what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her. to the .wa.
Xt'.r, and tried how she would sail, I fitted up
. a little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's -sails that lay by me t then made lock-
ers or boxes at the end of it to put in neces-
saries, provision and ammunition, which woulcf
.preserve them dry either from the rain, or the
spray of the sea; and, in the inside of the
boat, I cut me a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in the
stern, like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun
off me. And now resolving to see the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I viptualled my
ship for the Voyage, putting in tvro dozen of
my barley bread loaves, an earthen pot full of
parched rice, a little bottle' of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch coats.
It was the 6th of November, in the 6th year
of my. reign, or captivity, that L set out in this
voyage; which was much longer than I ex-
pected, being obliged to put farther out, by
reason of the rocks that lay a great way in the
sea; -
And indeed, so much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if 1' ventured farther, it would be out of my
power to return: in this uncertainty I came to i
anchor just off the shore, to w hich 1 waded
with my gun On my shoulder, and then climb.
ingupa hill, which over-looked that, point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run
^11 hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming
very close to the point; which I (he more care-
fully observed, thinking it dangerous, and that
when I came to it, I might be driven into the
set by its force, and not able to return to the
Island: and certainly it must have been so,
had I not made this observation; for on the
•ther side was the like current, with this dif.
ference, that it set off at a greater distance;
and I perceived there was a strong eddy under
the land; so that my chief business was to
work out of the first current, and conveniently
get into the eddy. Two days I staid here,
the wind blowing very briskly E. S. E. which
being contrary to the current, leaves' a great
breach of the sea upon the point; so it was
neither fit for me to keep too near the shore^
on account of the breach; nor stand at too
great a distance for fear of the streams. That
Bight the wind abating, it grew so calm, that
-1 ventured out: and here I maybe a monu.
ment to all rash and ignorant pilots: for I
was no sooner come to the point, and not
above the boat's jength from shore,' but I was
. .got iuto a deep water, with a current like a mill.
race, which drove my boat along so violently,
that it was impossible for me to keep near the
edge of if, for it forced me more and more out
from the eddy to the left of me; and all I
could do with my paddles was useless, there
being no wind to hejp me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since, as the current ran on both sides of
the Island, 1 was very certain they must join
n»;ain, and then I had no hojj.es but of perish-
ing for want, in the sea, after what provision I
£ 5
had was spent, or before, if a stores should
happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of
my miud at (his calami)j? with longing eyes
did I look upon my little kingdom, and thought
the island tho pleasantest place in the ubi-
.' ¥erse. Happy, thrice happy desert, said I,
H shall f never see thee more? Wretched crea-
ture ! whither am I going? Why did I mur-
mur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither
again? While I was thus complaining, I
found myself to be driven about two leagues
into the sea: however, I laboured till my
Strength was far spent, to keep my boat as far
north as possibly I couh>, to that side of tini
current where the eddy lay. About noon
I perceived a little breeze of wind, spring up
from the S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart!
and I was still more elated, when, in about
half an hour, it blew a gentle tine gale. Had
any thick weather sprun gup, I had been lost
another way : for having no compass on board,
I should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, if orice it had disappeared;
but it proving the contrary, I set up my mast
again, spread my sail? and stood away north-
ward, as much as I could, to get rid of the
current. And no sooner did the boat begin,
to stretch away, but I perceived, by the clear*
ness of the water, a change of the current was
near; for, where it was strong the water waf
foul; and where it was clear, the current
abated.
Those who have been in the like calamities
with toy own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily j ran my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and bow joyfully I spread my sail
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be.
fore it, pith a ssaart tide under foot By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried a bore a
fcague home again, when, being in the wak#
of the island, betwixt the two currents, {
found the water to be in a sort of a stand.
About four o'clock. in the afternoon, I reached
within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this dis-
aster, stretching out, as 1 observed before, to
the southward, which throwing off the cur.
rent more southerly, had occasioned another
eddy to the north. But having a fair brisk
gale, 1 stretched across this eddy, and iu an
hour, came within a mile of the shore, where I
joon landed to my unspeakable comfort; and
sifter an humble prostration, thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, i brought my boat
cafe to a little cove, and laid me down to take
* welcome repose. When I awoke, I was con.
ctdering how 1 might get my boat home; and
foul; and where it was clear, the current
which ran up to a rivulet or brook, where,
finding a harbour, I stowed her as safe as
if she had been in a dry dock) made ou pur-
pose for her. . .
I now perceived myself not far from the
place, where before 1 had travelled cm foot; so
taking nothing with me, except my gun and
umbrella, I began my journey, and in the
evening came to my bower, where I again laid
me down to rest. I had not slept long before
I awakened in great surprize, by a strange
voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin I Where
are you, Robinson Crusoe? Whete are you .*
Where have you been?
So fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
awake thoroughly; but half asleep, and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody-
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated,
Robinson Crusoe, several times, being terribly
frightened, 1 Started up in the utmostconfusion;
and, no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and soon knew that it
wuf he that called me j for just in such be.
wailing language, 1 used to talk and teach
him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, Poor Robinson
Crusoe, xchere are you? akere have you been?
how came you here ?- and such like prattle I
had constantly taught him. But even though
I knew it to he the parrot, it was a great time
before I ceuld adjust myself: being amazed
how the creature got thither, and that he
should fix about that place, and no where else.
But now, being assured it could be no othej
than my honest Poll, my wonder ceased, and
reaching out my hand, and calling Poll, the
creature came tome familiarly, and perched
upon my thumb,. as hf. was wont, constantly
.prating to me with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and
how did I come here, and where had I been?
as if the bird was overjoyed to see me, and so
I took him home along with me. I was
now pretty well cured of rambling to sea;
yet I could wish my boat, which had cost me
bo much trouble and pains, on this side the
island once more, but this, indeed, was im-
practicable. I therefore began to lead a very
retired life, living nearly a twelvemonth in a
very contented manner, wanting for nothing
but conversation. As to mechanic labours,
which my necessities obliged me to, i fancied I
could, upon occasion, make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the poor tools I had to work withal,
but good. Besides, as I improved in m y earthen
ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel,
-which I found much easier and better, making
my work shapely, which before was rude and
ugly. But, I think I was never so elevaied
with my own performance or project as when
able to make a tobacco pipe, which, though
it proved an awkward clumsy thing, yet it
was very sound, and carried the smoke per-
fectly well, to my great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, made me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and conve-
nient to fetch things home in, as also for hold-
ing my stores, barley, rice,aud other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me /ex-
amine after what manner I should kill the
goats or birds, to lire on, after it was all gone.
Upon which, I contrived many ways to ensnare
the goats, and see if I could catch them alive,
particular)/ a she-goat with young.
At last 1 had my desire; /or, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found, one morning, in one of them, an pld he-
goat, and ID the other, three kids, one male,
and twp females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But 1 forgot the old
proverb, That hunger mil fume a lion: For,
had I kept him three or four days withe at
provision-', and then given trim some water,
with a little corn, he would have been as tamo
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together; but I had great diffi-
culty before I could bring them to my habi-
tation. It was some time before they would
feed ; but, throwing them sweet corn, it so
much tempted them, that they began to be
tamer. From hence I concluded, that if I
designed to furnish myself with goat's flesh,
when my ammunition was spent, the tamely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, was the only method I could
take. I concluded also \ must separate the
wild from the tame, or else tbey would always
run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this, was to have some inclosed piece of
ground, well fenced, either with a hedge or
pale, to keep them so effectually, that those
wilhiri might riot break put, n»r those jri1J»"V*
break in. Such an undertaking Mas very
great for one pfiir of hands; but as there was
an absolute necessity for doing it, my firbt
care was to find a convenient piece pf ground,
yrhere there waa likely to be herbage ior tbem
to eat, yatfj tp drink, and coyer to keep tbem
from the sun.
Here again, I gajr# another instance pf jny
ignorance, and inexperience, pitching upon a
piece pf meadow land so Jjirge, that had j
enclosed it, the hedge pr pale must have- been
at least two piles aboys. This thought camp
into my head, after I had carried it on, I be.
liere, about fifty y»rc-s: 1 ther« fpre altered
rpy scheme, and resolyed to enclose a piece. of
ground about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many is would
mainiain me, till such time as my flock in-
Creased, and then I could add more ground.
1 now vigorously prosecuted my wprk, and it
took me about three months in hedging the
fiist piece ; in which time I tcthi red the three
kids in the best part pf it; feeding them as
near me as possible, tp make. them familiar s
and, indeed, 1 ver* often would carry some
ears of barley, or aihanolul pf rice, and feed
them out of mj hand; by which they gtew so
tame, that. when my enclosure ww finished,
and 1 had let them loose, they would run after
me for a handful pf corn. This indeed an-
swered my end: and iu a year and a half's
time, I bad a flock of about twelve goats, kids
and all ; and in two years after, tb.ey am#ut*4
- to forty-^bree, besides what I had taken . and
kitted for ray sustenance. _ ''
After which,Unclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as I had occasion.
- In this'proje'ct I likewise foun.d additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, bui milk too, which in the beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or'seen butter or cheese made, yet,
after some essays and miscarriages, I made me
both, and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the Bitterest
evils, and give ns reason to magnify him in
dungeons and prisons; what a bounteous table
was here spread in a wilderness for me, where I
.expected nothingatfirst, buttoperishfor hunger.
Certainly any oue would have smiled to see
roe at dinner.' There sat my royal majesty,
an absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom,
attended by my dutiful subjects, whom if I
pleased, I could either hang, draw, quarter,
give them'liberty, or take it away. When I
dined, I seemed a king, eating alone, none
daring to presume to do so till I had done.
Poll, as if he had been my principal court fa.
vourite, was the only person permitted to talk •
with me. My old but faithful dog, now grown
exceedingly crazy, continually sat on my right
hand; while my two cats sat on each side nf
the table, expecting a bit from my hand, as a
principal mark of my. royal favour. These were
no( the! cais 1 had brought from the ship; they
had been dead long before, and interred near
my habitation by mine own hand. But a
couple of their young f had mad*' tame.; the
rest ran wild into the woods, and in time grew
so impudent, as to return and plunder me of
rny stores, till such time as 1 shot a great
many, and the rest left me without troubling
me anymore. In this plentiful manner did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation.
One thing indeed concerned me, the want of
my boat; I knew not which way to get her
round the island. One time I resolved to go
along the shore by land to her; but had any
one at home met such a figure, it would either
have affrighted him, or made him burst into
laughter; nay, I could not but smile myself
at my habit, which I think in this place will
be very proper to describe. . -
The cap I wore upon.my head, was great,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap or pent house hanging down be-
hind, not only to keep the sun from me, but
to shoot the rain off from running into my
heck, nothing being more pernicious than the
rain falhng upon the flesh in these climates.
1 had a short jacket of .goat's skin, whose hair
bung down such a length on each side, that it
reached down to the calves of my legs. As
for shoes and stockings, I had none, but made
a resemblance of something, 1 knew nut what
to call them; they were made like .buskins,
and laced on the sides like spatterdashes, bar-
Aarously shaped, like (he rest of my habit. >I
had a broad heit of goat's skin dried, girt
round me with a couple of thongs, instead of
buckles; on each of which, to supply the
deficiency of sword and dagger, .hung my
hatchet and saw. I had another belt, not so
broad, yet fastened in the same wanner, which
hung oy«r my shoulder, and at tbe end of'it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made
of goat** skin, to hold my powder and shot.
My basket I carried on my back, and my gun
on my shoulder; and over my head a great
elumsy ugly goat/s skin iunbreiia, which, how.
ever, next to my gun, was tbonost necessary
thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattos, or as
night hare been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or
ten degrees of the Line. At one time, my
beard grew so long that it hung down above
a quarter of a yard; but as I had both razors
and scissars in store, I cut it all off, and suf.
fjered none to grow, except a large pair of
Mahometan whiskers, the like of which I had
Step worn by some Turks at Salee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such
a monstrous size,as would hare amazed any in
England to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here,
there being none to observe my'oebaviour or
habit. And so, without fear and without con.
troul, J proceeded on my journey, the prosecu-
tion of which took me up five or six days. I
travelled along the sea shore, directly to
01 .
.the place .where I firaj. brought my bqat <p*n _
anchor, to get upon the rocks; >bul nO.w :hai>
jng no boat to take care of, J wept, over.|and,
Jnearer way to the ^me height ffnt I waa
. efpre pppp - when looking forward to the point
«jf ;the rock, which lay put, and .which f wap
forced to double with my boat, I was amazed
'to see the sea. so smooth and quie.t, .there bniig
no rippling ffOtipP, Por cu/rept, any mpre than
in other place*. ^.pd ppw I wa» cpnyin«ed»
jth»j by observing the ebb and Aow pf .thp
jtidf, jf might easily bring my boa* round the
island again. But when J began tp tMnk of
puttinjjit in practice, ihe remembrance of the
(laje danger, ftruck Die with such hprrpr, .that I
took anpt^e;r resolution, though more labo-
rious; and this was to make a second canpe,
pad so h&jre ppe fpr ppesjdepf the island, and
ope for t)ie ptfce r.
I had ppw twp plaptatipns jp jthe island ; the
A>V, ray (itt]h?.fprti|iicatipn, fp.rt, or castle, jfritji
many large and spacious ipipro.yem.euts : fur
by this ti/ne, I had enlarged the pare behind
me with severaj ii^/tte ca.ye», one within ano-
ther, to hold my baskets, corn, and straw.
The piles wi£h whjph t made jpy wall were
jgrown so lofty and 8rfat W pbscured my habi-
tation, ^pd Pear this commodious .apd plea-
san.t settlement, .lfy my well epUivatfd and
'improved corn fields, which kindly yielded me
their fruit ip the proper sepspp. My second
plantation .was that near my country-seat, pr
little bower, where my grapes flourished, and
where, pacing placed fl>y stakes, I made in-
rlosuroS for my goats, so strongly fortified by
labour and time, that it was much stronger
1 than a wall, and, consequently, impossible for
them to break through. As' for my bower
itself, I kept if constantly in repair, and cut
the trees in such a manner, as made them
grow wild, and form a most delightful shade.
In the centre of this, stood my tent, thus
erected. I had driven fourpilesiit the ground,
spn-ading truer it a piece of the ship's sail;
beneath which, [ made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures f had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of
the sailor's blankets, which I had saved from
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself
with a great watch coat, I took up this place
for my country retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And sometimes would ! venture in her
a castor two from shore, but no farther.' But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst Ijproceed
to inform you of a new, but mOs# surprising
scene of Jife; which here befel me.-.'
Yon may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be 'mora
amazing than to see a human creature. One
'day it happened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels,
and every part of it; Had 1 seen a monster of
the most frightful shape, I could not have been
more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention; I cast my eyes around, but
could satisfy neither the one nor the oth*r.
f proeeeded alternately to every part of the
shore, but With equal effect; neither could f
see any other mark, though the sand about it
WW as susceptible to lake impression, as that
which was so plainly stamped. Thus struck
With confusion and horVdr, f returned to my
habitation, frightened at every bush and tree,
taking every thing for me%; and possessed with
the wildest ideas! That nfgh'f my eyes' never
closed. 1 formed nothing but the most dismal
imaginations. . In a Word, all my religious
hope's vanished, as though 1 thought God would
not noW protect me by his power, who had
Wonderfully* preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How* changeable are our after.
tions, according to different circumstances?
We love to.day, what We hate to.mprroW: we
shun one hour, what we seek the next. This
was evident in me in the most conspicuous
manner: for f, who before had so much la-
mented my condition, in being banished from
ail human-kind, was now ready to expire,
when I considered that a man had set his fooi
on this desolate island. But when I considered
my station of life, decreed by the infinitely
-wise and good providence of God, that I ought
not to dispute my Creator's sovereignty, who
had an undoubted right to govern and dispose
•fhis creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that bis justice a*d mercy e«nbi either punish
oYfMUW rtfe, 1 «Hfy, wWn 1 Cohslder^rf all
tllis', T tfoWbrtttbfy fbTSHH'if my duly to trust
SlriCereTy1 Itf him, pray; aVdetitty fo him, and
HdifiHiy mitfi my&irttfhfo divine iWU'. ;;.
©He rrforniug, fyfnif/dH thy bed, these ward's
of the sacred* writings' t'a'rne iiitd my mind',
t'alf xiptH HieiA' tlte ddy'ofirotible, dntt t uill
deliver thee, utiti'l'KoU ithattglorify the. fjpon
this se'rt&rite, rising more* chearfullv frofii my
bed, l offered up thy prayers in the' most
devout manner: iftfd wHeh I had done, taking
up" my Bible1 t'd read, these words appeared*
flrtt ih my sight: frail on the I^onL and be of
gd^d cheer, aUdHe shaft strengthen tky heart:
Wdit, tiajfi on' the Lord', audit' divine coni-
fbrfdid this give1 the, air to remove 411 cause of
satthess' upon thit' occasion,
THus, after a World df apprehension's and
fears, for three days' and nights, f at last ven-
tured out 6tthy castle, and milked my goats,
drie' of whibh' Was almost* spoiled for Want of it.
I next, (thdugh in great fear,) visited my
bower, and milked my flocks there also; when,
growing tiolderl F went down {o the shore
agalh, atid measuring' the print' df the1 foot' to
mine', td see perhaps'whetHer I'rhySelf Had not
occasibned rMt'riutrk, I* found it much supe-
ridf in largeness; and so returned home, ab-
solutely convinced, that either some' men had
beWa'shbre', or that' ttitf island must be inha-
bited; add therefdre that I might be surprised
before I was* aware.
I flow began td1 think of providing for my ae-
cu'rity, and resolved in my mind many different
schemes for that purpose. I first proposed t»
cut down my inclosures, and turn my tame
cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island
in hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was
fordiggingup my corn-fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest, seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find
out and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered,: that
this delightful and pleasant island might not be
so entirely forsaken as I might think ; but that
the inhabitants from the other shore might sail,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear made me
think of a place of retreat upon an attack.
I now repented that I had made my door to
come out beyond my fortification; to remedy
which, I resolved to make me a second one:
I fell to work, therefore, and drove betwixt
that double row of trees, which I planted above
twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables,
and strengthening the foot of it with earth
which I dug out of my cave; I also made me
seve» holes, wherein I- plaated my muskets
like cannon, fittlngthem into frames resembling
carriages. This being finished with. indefati-
gable industry, for a great way every where,
I planted sticks of osiers like a wood, about
twenty. thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them-and my wait, that I might nave
room to see an enemy, and that they might
not bG sheltered among the young'trees, if
they offered to approach the outer wall. And
indeed, scarce two years had passed over my
head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, and in six years it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassable. For my safety, I left no
avenue to go in or out; instead of which, I set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when
I took-those down, it was impossible for any
man to descend without hurting himself; and
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of my outer wall. But while I took all these
measures of human prudence for my o«n pre-
servation, I'was riot altogether unmindful of
ether affairs. . To- preserve my stock of tame
goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, I looked out for the most retired part of
the island, which was the place where I had
lost myself before mentioned, and there finding
a clear-piece of land, containing three acres,
surrounded with thick woods, I wrought so
hard, that in less than a month's time, I fenced
it to w«U round, that my UocJ^ were very well
Secured In it, and t put therein two he goats,
int.te^i J^B ones, fc . „ ... . .
All this labour was' occasioned purely by
f irful apprehensions, on account of seeing. the)
print of a man's foot. And not.. contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island,
where I might also retain another flock. Then
wandering on this errand more to the west of
the island than ever I had yet dope, and cast-
ing my eyes towards the sea, met hough t J per.
ceived a boat at a great distance ; but could
not possibly tell what it was for want of my
spy-glass. I considered then, it Was no
strau^e thing to see the print of a man's foot;
and, concluding them cannibals, .blessed God
for being cast on the other side of the island,'
where none of the savages, as I thought, .ever
came. But when I came down the. hill to the
shore, which was the S. VV. point of the island,
I was soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can
any one describe my horror and amazement,
- when I saw the ground spread with sculls,.
hands, feet, and bones of human bodies; and
particularly, I perceived a space like. a circle,
in the midst of which had been a fire, about
-which I conjectured. those wretches sat, and
unnaturally sacrificed and devoured their fellow
eatures. . . '- J
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread.
tu\ spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made toe discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. I then returned towards my
d in my way thifher
, and falling (town on my bended
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
bo long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here
had assured me, that the savages never came
up to the thick woody part of the country,
and that I had no reasonto be apprehensive of
a discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I stiJl
Tetain, that, for two years after, 1 confined
myself only to my three plantations; I mean
my castle, country seat, and inclosure in tiie
woods, though in process of time, my dread*
fill apprehensions began to wear away.
Thusmycircumstancesfor some time remain.
ed very calm and undisturbed: though indeed,
the terror which the savages had put me in,
spoiled some inventions for my own conveni-
ences. One of my projects was to brew m<>
some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it is considered, that I had neither casks suf.-.
ficient, nor could 1 make any to preserve it in; j
neither had I hops to make it keep, jeast to
make it work, nora copper or kettle to make it
boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to iear, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way: and day and night I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when, proceeding to their
bloody entertainments; and so saving a victim
/|
- d ;«- -:
from being sacrificed, that he might after be-
come my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and many more objec-
tions occurred, after! had hatched them, I once
contrived to dig a hole under the place where
they made their fire and put therein five ,qr six
pounds of gunpowder, which would cpnse-
quently blow up all those that were near it;
but then I was lolh to spend so much upon
them, lest it should not do that certain execu-
tion' I desired, 'and only affright and not
kill them. Having laid this design aside,
I again proposed to myself to lie privately in
ambush in some convenient place, with my
three guns'double loaded, and let fly at them
in the midst of their dreadful ceremony; and
having killed two-or three of them at every
shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my three
pitols, and let not one mother's soil escape.
This imagination pleased my fancy so much
that I used to dream of it in the night time.
To put my design in execution I was not Jong
seeking for a place convenient for my purpose,
where unseen I might behold every action of
the savages. Here I placed my two muskets,
each of which was loaded with a brace of slugs,
and four or five smaller bullets about the size
of pistol bullets; the fowling piece was charged
with nearly a handful of the largest swan shot,
and in every pistol about four bullets. And
thus all things being prepared, no sooner did
; the welcome light spread over the element, but,
3 I would issue forth from my castle, and from
a lofty hill, three miles distant, try if I could
see any invaders approach unlawfully to my
kingdom. But having waited in vaiu two or
three months, it grew very tiresome to int.
I now argued 'with myself, it was belter for
me never U* attack, but to remain undiscovered
a,3 long as 1 possibly could; thai an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive;
for as it was scarcely to be supposed .I could
kill them all, I might either be' overpowered
by the remainder, or that some escaping might
bring thousands to my certain ae&Uvctlori.
A nit, indeed, religion, took their part so much
as to convince me' how contrary it was to my
duty, to be guilty of shedding human blood,
inuuceht blood, innocent as to m* in particular,
do therein what seemed convenient'to his hea.
venly wisdom. And, therefore, in my knees
I thanked the Almighty for delivering me'froni
blood-guiltiness, and begged his protection that
I might never fall' into JhVir hands.'
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun,' 1 never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterwards % f only removed my boat,
which lav on the other side of the island, and
every thing that belonged to herj towards the
, into a little cove, that there might not
fee the least shadow of any boat near, or habip
tation upon the island. yAy castte then be-
«ame my cell, keeping always retie^d in it,
M 3
except when I went out to milk my slie-goaf s,
or my little flock in the wood, which was
quite out of danger: for sure I was, that these
lavages never came here with expectation
to find any thing, and consequently never
wandered from the coast; however, as they
might have several times been on shore,' as
jrell before as after my dreadful apprehensions,
1 looked back with horror to think in what
state I might have been, had I suddenly met
them, slenderly armedj with one gun only
loaded with small shot; and how great would
have been my amazement, if, iqstead of seeing
the print of one man's foot, I had perceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having puce
set their eyes upon me, by. the swiftness of
their feet, would have left me no possibility
of escaping? These thoughts would sink my
102
lancholy, till such time as the consideration of
my gratitude to the divine Being moved it
from my heart. I then fell into a contempla-
tion of the secret springs of ^Providence; and
how wonderfully we are^deijje^ed, when insen-
sible of it; and whea in funcjfl|am mazes pr
labyrinths of doubt or ^sitatajri, what secret
hint directs us, in the right-J^j" when we in-
tended to go out of it; nay fjerhaps^conjtrary
to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation,
or convenience, I now cared not to drive a
naU, chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire,
lest either the poise should be heard, or the
smoke discover me. And on this account I
used to burn my earthen ware privately in a
cave, which I found in the wood, and which I
made convenient for that purpose.; the princi-
pal cause that brought me here was.to make
charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my
bread and meat without any danger.
At that time a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood, for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity be.
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Ca-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in.
But when I had entered, having crept, upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher up, I think about twenty feeU
But surely never mortal saw such a glorious
sight before! the roof and walls of this cave
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from.
qjy two candles, as though they Were indented
with shiuing gold, precious stones, or spark.
ling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightful cavity or grot'to of its kind thatpould
be desired, though entirely dark, The floor
was dry and level, and had a kind of gravel
upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures to
be seen here, neither any diimp or wet-about
Ul I could find no fault but in the entrance,
and I began to. think, that even this might b»
- w

f cry necessary for my defence, and therefore
resolved to make it my principal magazine. J
brought hither two fowling pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle,
jplanted in the nature of cannon. In a barrel
of gun.powder, which I took out of the sea, X
brought away about sixty pounds of good pow-
der, which was not damaged; and this, with a
great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed
from my castle to this retreat, now fortiiicd
both by art and nature.
1 fancied myself uow like one of the giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them.
selves, or, at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and
strength of the savages, either to find me out
or to hurt m«.
1 think I was now in the Uyeuty third year
•f my reign, and my thoughts much easier
than formerly, having contrived several pretty
amusements, and diversions to pass away the
time in a pleasant manner. By this time mV
pretty Poll had learned to speak English, and
pronounce his words very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he
lived no less than twenty.six years. My dog
which was nineteen years old, sixteen of which
he lived with me, died some time ago, of mere
old age. As for my cats, they multiplied so
fast, that I was forced to kill or drive them into
the wooes, except two «r three which becwat
ray particular favourites. Besides * these, I
continually kept two or three household kids
about me, which I taught to feed out of my
hand, and two more parrots which could talk
indifferently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so excellently as the first? by my not tak.
ing'so much pains with them. I had also se^
teral sea fowls which I had wounded and cut
their wings; and growing tame, they used
to breed among the low trees about my cas-
tle-walls, all of which made my abode very
agreeable.' . .
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time
in my harvest, which required my attendance
in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, before it was daylight, there ap.
peared to me from the sea-shore, a flaming
light, about two miles from me at the east end
of the island, where I had obserted some sa-
vages had been before, not on the-other side,
but to my great affliction it was on my side of
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual.
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
say improvements, I returned directly to m'y
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I. put .myseffin a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and
pistols, and committing myself to God's pro-
tectien, I resolved to defend myiejf till mf
t\\t breath. Two hours after, fmpatienj; far
intelligence^ I set my ladder up to the side ot
'in, where there was a flat place, and then
; the ladder after me, ascendiug to the
era laying myself on my belly, with rojf
tive class I perceived no less than nine
'a small fire, eat,
;h, with their two
efore landed. And, indeed, this proy
is I imagined: tor no sooner did they .1
1 . 'T ' . Jji J 2'_iL -~it.SF.iva 'L'j! '"J
as
ke boat and paddle a'
f. W. - Wheii I saw
guns upon my shouh
of pistolsinmy belt, withmys
_- '^rJi„ T »_ it
sitting
i, hun
i shore, waiting for
to carry them off again. The co'nsj
•was in at this sight, especially seeing
near me, was very great; but when I perceive
their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts,
teing fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of floor], if they w;
the tide ma
le, I took two
lacing a couple
eat sword hang-
ing by my side, I wept to tpe hill, whereat
first I made a discovery of these cannibals, and
then saw there had been three canoes more
of the savages on shore at that place, which
-with the rest, were making over to the main
land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, 'and other mangled parts of human
bodies appealed in my sight; and so tired was
fwith indignation, that I wfts fully resolved to
t»e revenged on the frst that came there, though
I lost my life in the execution. It then ap-
peared to roe, that the visits which they mak»
to this island are not very frequent, it being
fifteen months before they came again ; but
still I was very Uneasy, by teason of the dis*


st, taking
any hundi
; the alarm, they might return with
many hundred canoes, and then God only
knows in what manner I should hate made my
ejvcL Thus was I a year or more before I hit
aliy of these devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while, eluded
the force of my thoughts in revenging myself
on those Heathens,
On the 16th of May (according to my.
•den calendar) the wind blew exceedingly
1, accompanied with abundance of thunder
ad lightning all day, and succeeded by a very
ormy night. The seeming anger of trie
eavens made.me have recourse to my Bible.
. hilst L was seriously pondering upon it, I
was suddenly alarmed with the noisi; of a gun,
which I conjectured was fij>d upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprise made me start np ia
a minute; when, with myt adder, ascending th«
mountain as before, that Tery moment a flash
«f fire presaged the report of anot
Thich I presently heard, and found it was
the part of the sea where the current drore me
away, J could not but thenthink, that this must
be a ship in distress, and that these were' the
melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great,.indeed, was my sorrow upon this occa- .
sion; but my labours to assist them must have
proved altogether vain and fruitless. How.
ever, I brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and making a pretty targe piler .
set it on fire on the hill. I was certain they
plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that
several more from the same quarter. All night
long I kept up my fire; and when the air
cleared up, I perceived something 4 great way
at seaj directly E. but conld not distinguish
what it was, even with my glass, the weather .
being so very foggy out at sea. However^:
keeping. my eyes directly fixed upon it, and
perceiving itdidnotstir, I presently concluded
it must be a ship at anchor, and so very 'hasty
was f to be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I
-went to the S. W. part of the island, to the
same rocks where I had been formerly driven
away by the current; in which time, the wea-
ther being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow, 1 perceived the wreck of a ship cast
away upon those hidden rocks I had found
when 1 was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of
my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing
cenctraing this wr^k, and could perceite n# -'
room to suppose any 6f them saved, I cannot
explain, by any possible force of words, what
longings my soul felt on this occasion, often.
breaking out in this manner. Oh that there
had been but two or three,.nay$ even one per-
son saved, that we might have' lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another!
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated these . ords, M Oh! that
"there had been but one!" my hands would
so clench together, and my fingers press' the
palms of my hands so close, that, had any
soft thing been between, they would have crush-
ed it, while my teeth would strikB together,
and set against each other so strong, that it're-
quired some time for me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or rfbt any had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction,
some time after, to see the corpse of a drowned
boy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing oh him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open.kneed Hnen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of.In his pocket weni two
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, the last
of which I preferred much more than I did tffe
first. And now the calmness of the sea tempt-
ed me to venture out in my boat to this wreck,
not only to get something necessary out of the
ship, but perhaps, some living creature might
fee on board^ whose life I might preserve. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that im.
mediately I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for the voyage, carrying on
board my boat, provisions of all sorts, with a
good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a com*
pass: so putting off, I paddled the canoe
along the shore, till I came to the N. E. part
of the island, from whence I was to launch
into the ocean; but here the current ran so
Violently, and appeared so terrible, that my
heart began to fail me; foreseeing, that if I
Was driven into any of these currents, I might
be carried not only out of the reach or sight of
the island, but even inevitably lost in the boil-
ing surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that ^
gave over my enterprize, sailing to a little
creek on the shore, where, stepping out, I sat
me down ort a rising hill, very pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide Was
turned, and the flood come on; which made it
impracticable forme togooutfor so many hours.
That night, I reposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch-coat instead of a blan*
ket, theheaveus being my tester. I set out with
the first of the tide full north, till I felt the
benefit of the current, which carried me at
a great rate eastward, yet not with such impe»
tuosity as before, as to take from me all
government of my canoe; so that in two hours
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to
me a most melancholy sight. It seemed to be
a Spanish vessel by its building, stuck fast be.
Ill
fween two. rocks; her stern and quartersbeate*
tp pieces by the sea; her main.mast and fore.
mast were brought off by the board; that is,
broken short oft As I approached nearer, I
perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried: and no sooner did
X call him, bat the poor creature jumped into^
the sea, out of which I took him up almost
famished with hunger and thirst; so that when
I gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf
could devour it more greedily; and he drank
to that degree of fresh water, that he would)
have burst himself had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cock-room or fore«
castle, inclosed in one another's arms: hence I
very probably supposed, that when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and over her, that the men
not being able to bear it, were strangled "by the
constant rushing of the waves. There were
several casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
Jl could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of the water, yet were too large for me to
„ pretend to meddle with: likewise I perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to
the seamen, two of which 1 got into my boat,
without examining what was in them. What
became of the rest of the sailors I could not
certainly tell; and all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body.
Starching farther, I found a cask, containing
o 2
About twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
some labour I got into my boat; in * cabin
were several muskets, which I let remain there;
but took away with me a great powder horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it. I
took also a fire shevel and tongs, with two
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a grid-iron ;- all which were extremely «e~
cessary to me, especially (he fire shovel and
tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied
by my dog, I came away, the tide serving
for that purpose-; and the same evening, about
an hour within night, I attained the island,
after the greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs ia
the boat, resolving the next morning to har.
bour what I had gotten, in my new found under-
ground grotto; and not carry my cargo
home to my ancient castle. Having refreshed
myself, and got all my effects on shore, I next
proceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at thtt
Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the
opening of the chest, several things appeared
very useful to me; for instance, I found.ia
one, a very fine case of bottles, containing the
finest and best sort of cordial waters; each
bottle held about three pints, curiously tip!
with silver. I found also two pots full of the
choicest sweetmeats, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled; There were likewise
several good shirts, exceedingly welcome to me,
and about one dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths, the?
former of which were absolutely necessary for
wiping my face in a hot day; and in the till,
1 found three bags of money, in one of which,
- decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six
doubloons of gold, and some small bars and!
wedges of the same metal, which I believe
might weigh near a pound. In the other chest,
I only found some clothes of very little value,
aud about two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three flasks, kept as I believe, for charg-
ing their fowling, pieces on any occasion, so>
that, on the whole I made very little of this,
voyage. The money was indeed as mere dirt.
to me, useless and unprofitable, all which I
would have freely parted with, for two or three
pair of English shoes and stockings, things
that for many years I had not worn, except.
those which I had lately taken off the feet of
the unfortunate men I found drowned in the
wreck, yet not so good as English shoes either
for ease or service. I found no gold in the se.
cond chest; so concluded that what I took
from the first belonged to an officer, the latter.
appearing to have a much inferior person for
its owner. However, as despicable as the mo-
ney seemed, I likewise lugged it to my cave,.
laying it up securely, as I did the rest of my-
cargo, and intending to seek out, and return it
to the family of the unfortunate owner, if ever
I should return to Europe: and, after I had
ddhe all this, I returued back to my boat, row*
Sng or paddling her along till I came to mj »li
harbour, where I carefully laid her up, and so
made the best of my way to my castle. Wheu
I arrived there, every thing seemed safe and
quiet; so that now, my only business was to
repose myself after my wonted manner, and
take care of my domestic affairs. But though
I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was
More vigilant than usual, upon account of the
savages, never goingmuch abroad; or, if I difl,
it was to the east part of the island, where I
was well assured that the savages never came,
and where I might not he troubled to carry
such a heavy load of weapons for my defence^
as I was obliged to do if I went th«otherway.
Two years did T live in this anxious condjp
tion, in all which time, contrary to my former
resolutions^ my head was filled with nothinj
but projects and designs how I might escapa
from this island; and so much were my wan-
dering thoughts bent upon a rambling disposi.'
tion, that had I had the same boat that I went
from Salee in, I should have ventured one*
more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
Having retired to my castle, after my late
voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up and se-
cure^ as usual, and my condition the same a*
before, except being richer, though I had as
little occasion for riches as the Indians of Pern
had for gold? before the cruel Spaniards canne
amoriff them: one night in March, being tbe
rainy season, in the four and twentieth year of
ray solitude, I lay down: to sleep, very well im.
health, -without distemper, pain, or uncommon.
uneasiness either of body or mjnd; yet not.
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the nightlong. All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head. I traced quite
prer, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till I
came to this island; and then proceeded t»
examine every action and passage that had oc-
curred ..since I had taken possession of my
kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter, f
was comparing the happy posture of my affair*
in the beginning of my reign, to this life of
anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had disco.
Te red the print of a foot in the sand; that while
I continued without apprehension, I was inca-
pable of feeling the dread and terror I now
suffered. How thankful rather ought J to have
been for the knowledge of my ilanger, since
'the greatest happiness a man can be possessed
of is to have sufficient time to provide against
it? How stupendous is the goodness of i'levi-
dence, which sets such nanow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that
while men walk in the midst of so many dan.
gers, they are kept serene and calm, by having
the events of things hid from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround them, till perhaps they are dissipated
and vanished away.
About a year aud half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprised by seeing no
a 4
less tlian fire canoes all 'on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-.
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
lay still in my castle; which, however, I put
in a proper posture for an attack; and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
my impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and, as usual, ascended up, to the 'top of the
hill at two stages, standing*, however, in such
a manner, that my head did not appear above
the hill, so that they could not easily perceive
me: and here, by the assistance of my per-
spective glass, I observed no less than thirty Itj.
number arouud a fire, feasting upon what meat
they had dressed : how they cooked it, or what
it was, I could not then perfectly tell; but they
were all dancingand capering about the flames,
using many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was behold.
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea.
tu'res from the boats, to act. afresh the dread-
ful tragedy, as I supposed, they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upbn-th# ground, knocked down as I Suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
manner; while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they
Iiad done the farmer: while the last unhappy
captive was left by himself, till such time as;
they were ready for him. The poor creature
looked round him with a sorrowful eye, trem.
lling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
himself a little atliberty, nature, that very mo-.
went, as it were, inspired him withhopes of life:.
He'started away from them, and ran, with in-
credible swiftness, along the sands, directly to
that part of the coast where my ancient and
venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine, I was dreadfully af.
frighted upon this occasion, when as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. And now, indeed, I ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However my spirits beginning
to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and 1
now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number, that pursued him. 1
was infinitely pleased at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers,
gaining so much ground upon them, that 1
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it out for
half an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
enemies-. t
Between them and my castle, there was a
creek', the very same which 1 sailed into with
all my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which, I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could
not swim for his escape: but soon was 1 out of
a 5
Ii3
pain for him, when I perceived he made no.
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over iu about thirty strokes, and then landing,
ran with the same incredible strength and
swiftness as before. When the three pursuers
came tp the creek, two of them, who I per-
ceived could not swim, happily fpr- themselves,
returned to. their. company, while the other,
with an equal courage but much less swiftness,
attained the other side, as though he was re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now x>r never, I thought, was the time for me to
procore me a servant, companion, or assistant;
and that I was decreed by Providence to be the
instrument to save this poor creature's life. £
immediately descended my two ladders with.
the greatest expedition; I took up my two
guns, which, I said before, were at the bottom
of them: and, getting up again with the same
haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea.
In a word, taking a short cut down the hill, I
interposed between the pursuer and pursued,
hallooing aloud to the. latter, who, venturing
to look back, was, no doubt, as much terrified
at me as at the enemy from whom he fled. I
beckoned to him, with my hand, to return back,
and, in the mean time advanced towards the
pursuer. I was very unwilling4o fire lest the
rest should hear, though, at that distance, I
questioned whether they Auld or no; and
being out of sight of the smoke, they could not
easily have kiown what to make of it. Th«
savage stopped as if he had hern amazed : when,
advancing towards him, I could perceive him
take his bow from his hack, and, after fixing
an arrow toe it, preparing (o shoot at me,
ind, wiihout dispute, tie might have lodged it in
my breast; but in this absolutely necessary
case of self-preservation, I immediately fired,
and shot him dppd, just as, his hand was going
to draw the fatal stiing. All this while, the
savage who had fled before, stood sti(l/and had
the satisfaction to see his enemy fettled, as he
thought, who designed to take away his life: .
so affrighted was he with the" fire and noise of
my piece, that he stood as it were like Lot's
wife, fixed and immoveable without either Sense
or motion. This obliged me to halloo to hirn;
again, making the plainest signs 1 could to hjm
to draw nearer, I perceived he understood}
these tokens, by his approaching to me a littl^
way, when, as if aft aid I should kill him too^
he stopped again. Several times did he advance;
and as often stop in this manner, till, coming
irjore to my view, I perceived him trembling,as
if he was to undergo the same fate. Upon which,
I looked upon him with a smiling countenance,
and still beckoning to him; at length he came
close to me, and kneeled down, kissed the
;::cund, laid his head upon it, and taking me
by the foot, set it upon his head ; which, as
I understood afterwards, was a token of swear-
ing to be my slave for crtr, I 'took him up^
and making much of him, encouraged him ill'
the best manner 1 could. --- v Vr£t§£';'
The greatest astonishment that my new sei*.
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow: and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which I bid him go,
and, as well as I could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
liow wonderfully was he struck with amaze-
ment! First, he turned it on one side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive noquan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
made in the breast, he took up his bow and ar-
rows, and came back again; upon which, I
turned to go away, making signs to him to fol.
low, lest the rest missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of him, arid this I found
he understood very well, by making me to un-
derstand that his design was' to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which by signs again
I riiade him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately, he fell to work, and never was
grave-digger more dexterous in the world than
lie was; for in an instant, as I might say, he
scraped a large hole in the sands with his hands,
sufficient to bury it in; there he dragged it,
and, without any ceremony, covered it over.
I then called him away, and instead of carry-
ing'him directly to my castle at first, 1 con-
veyed him to my cave on the farther part of
the inland. . . .J
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, ita»
doubtedly must this poor creature be, sup..
ported chiefly by the vivacity of spirit, and un-
common transports of joy that his deliverance
occasioned. Here I gave him bread and a
bunch of raisins to eat, and water to drink, on
which he fed very cheerfully, to his exceeding
refreshment. I then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, (a bed which I used myself sometimes)
and then pointing to it, made signs for him to
lie down to sleep, upon which the poor crea-
ture went to take a welcome repose.
Indeed he was a very comely, handsome,
young fellow, extremely well made, with
straight long limbs, not too large, but tall, and
well shaped, and as near as I could reckon,
about twenty.six years of age. His counte-
nance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and
especially when he smiled, he had all the
sweetness of a Eurppean. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many of the -blacks are,
but long and black, with the most beautiful,
yet careless, tresses spreading over his shoul-
ders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpnessin
his eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that
of the Americans; but rather of a light dun
plive colour, that had something agreeable in
it, though not very easy to give a description
f?f. His face was rouud and plumpa with 4
«rnalinese, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips,
fete "teeth, very well set, and white as the
driven snow. In a word, such handsome fea.
turi-s, and exact symmetry in every part, made
we consider, that I had saved the life of an
Indian prince, no less graceful and accom.
pWr-hed than the great Oroonoko, whose memo.
table behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life, have charmed the world, both to admira-
123
ferings.
He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while I' was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs from
the rave towards me in my inelosure, and lay.
tog himself down on the ground in the lowest
prostration, made alt the antic gestures ima.
finable, to express his thankfulness to me for
feeing his deliverer. He laid down his head
qgaii> upon the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his head, as he had
«J»ne before, making all the signs of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me understand he would serve me as long as
{lis life endured. As I understood him in,
many things, I made him sensible I was very
-well pleased with him ; and, in a little time, X
fcegan to speak to him, and teach him how to
talk to me again. *
In the first place, I made him understand;
ki&name was to b* Friday,because it was upon
ttat day I saved his life I then taught him f o>
say Master, which I made him sensible^was to
be my name; I likewise taught him to say "Yes
and No, and to know what they meant. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, making hint
view me while I drank It before him, and soak-
ed my bread in it; i gave him a cake of bread,
and caused him to soak it likewise, to which' -
he readily consented, milking signs of the great-
est satisfaction imaginable. '.
All that night did I keep him there bn't no
sooner did the morning light appear, than T
ordered him to arise and come along with. me,
with certain tokens that I would give him some
cloihes like mine, at which he seemed very
glad, being stark naked, without the least co-
veting whatever. As we passed by the place
where the man had been interred, my man
pointed directly to his grave, shewing me the
marks that he had made to tirid it again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should
dig him up, and devour him. At this I ap.
peared extremely displeased, expressed my ut-
most abhorrence, as if ( would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greatest
reverence and submission. After this, I con-
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the
rest of (he savages were yet remaining there;
but when I looked through my perspective
glnss, 1 could see no appearance of them, nor
of thtir canoes; so that it was very evident
they never minded their "deceased companion
whom we had slain; which if they had, they
would surely have searched for or left one boat
behind for him to follow, after he returned
from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, anu
mating me with courage, to'see this scene of
barbarity, I took my man Friday with me to the
place of their bloody entertainment. But wh«frl
I came there, I was struck with' the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt
in his turn, one of these devourers.' Here lay
several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch.
ed, whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously
as water from a fountain. As I was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they Had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself: that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king,'in the
just defence of whom he was taken prisoner,
with many others; all of these were carried off
to different places to be devoured by their con-
querors; and that it was his fortune to be
brought hither by these wretches for the very
same purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together upofl a heap, which I
ordered to be set on fire, and burnt them to
ashes; my man, however, still retained the na-
ture of a cannibal, having a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh: but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for
I made him very sensible, that if he attempted
any such thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, I carried my man with me
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had taken out of the poor
gunner's chest before mentioned; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him vfry well; in
the next place, I made him a jerkin of goat
skin, such as my skill was able to manage, and
indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, which 1 made
of a hare's skin, very convenient and fashion.
able. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my
man was no less proud of his habit, than 1 was
at seeing him in it. Indeed he went very awk.
wardly at first, but by use, at length he took to
them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well by him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself, I erected a tent for
faim in the vacant place between my two forti.
fications, in the inside of the last, and the out.
side of the first; and as there was an entrance
or door into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to open on the inside; I
barred it up in the night-time, taking in my
ladders too, so that, was my man to prore
treacherous, there could be no way to come at
woe in the inside of my innermost wall, without
Staking so much noise in getting over, that it
mast needs waken me; for ray first wall had
sow a complete roof over it of long poles,
spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the mountain, which was again laid
across with smaller sticks instead of laths, and
thatched over to a great thickness with the rice
straw, which- was as strong as reeds; and at the
bole of the place, left on purpose to go in or
cut by the ladder, I had placed a kind of a
trapdoor, which, if it had been attempted on
the outside, would not hare opened at all, but
lave fallen down, and made a great noise; and
as to my weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed-side.
Byt there was no occasion fpr this precau-
tion* for sorely never master had a more sin.
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenness,
or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
•flections, were as much tied to me, as those of
* child to his parents; and I might venture to
say, he would have sacrificed his life for the
saving of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever,
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave me
of this, sufficiently convinced me that I had ne
occasion to use all these precautions.
I had not been above two or three days re,
turned.to my castle, but my chief design was,
Jiow I should bring Friday off from his horrid
way of feeding; and, to take from him that in*
human relish he by habit had been accustomed"
to,'I thought it my duty to let him taste other
flesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
same abhorrence, I so often expressed against'
their accursed way of living. Upon which,"
one morning, I took him out with me, with an
intention to kill a kid out of the flock, and
bring it home, and dress it. As I was going,
1 perceived a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. Imme.
diately I catched hold of my man Friday, and
bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre.
Rented my piece, and shot one of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet did not
know by what means, or how it was done,
stood trembling and surprized, and looked so
amazed, that 1 thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not
understand the meaning of; which at length
I perceived was, that 1 would not take away
his life.
Indeed s« much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
from tears. ' But, however, as another sort of
fouutenance was necessary, and to c&pvincfr
Jrim that I would do him no harm, I took him,
smiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was killed, than he was before in
beholding the Indian ; which, while he was ad.
miring, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree Within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
-which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bade him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, hotwithstand,.
Ing all I had said to him: and the more con*
founded'he was, because he did not perceive
m4 put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so~much as touch it
for several days after; but would come and
Communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to
It, as if the senseless piece had understood
and answered him; all this 1 could perceive
him to do, when he thought my back was
turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire
it not to kill him, as I afterwards tame Id
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from these comical gestures he
trsed oh such occasions; but when his asto.
nishnient was a litile over, L made tokens to
bun to run and fetch the parrot that I had
shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird
not being quite dead, bad fluttered some wajr
« farther from the place where she felU In the
mean time, as he was looking for her, I took
the adrantage of charging my gun again, that
so I might be ready for any other mark that
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided
the carcase as well as I could. Part of the
flesh, I stewed and boiled, in a pot I bad for
this purpose. And then, spreading my table,
I sat down, giving my man some of it to eat,
who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed tm
like it very well: but what was the roost sur-
prising to him was to see me eat salt with it s
upon which he made me understand, that th»
salt was very bad for me; when putting a little 1
into his month, be seemed to nauseate it ia
such a manner, as to spit and sputter at it,
and then washed his mouth with freshwater:
but to shew him how contrary his opinion was
to mine, I put some meat into my mouth with.
out salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as
much for want of it, as be had done at it;
yet ail this proved of no signification to Fri-
day; and it was a long while before he could
cudure any salt in his meat or broth, and even
then but a small quantity.
Thus, having fed hire sufficiently with boiled
meat and broth at that time, the next day I
was resolved to feast him with a roasted piece
•f the kid. And having no spit to fasten it,
nor jack to turn it, I hiade use of that common
artifice which manj of the people of England
have, that is, to set two poles upon each side^
of the fire, and one across on the top, hang-
ing the meat thereon with a string, and so-
turning it round Continually, till it was suffi-
ciently roasted. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
another way than that to which the savages
-were accustomed. But when he came to taste
the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he
expressed his entire satisfaction above a thou-
sand different ways. As I could not but un.
derstand his meaning, you may be sure I was
as wonderfully pleased, especially when he
made it also very plain to me, that he would
never, while he lived, eat man's flesh More.
It was now high time I should set my new-
servant to work; so next day, I put him to
beat out some corn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow was very quick and handy in the exe.
cution of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him.
see me bake it. In short, he did every thing
as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could perform it myself.
- But now, considering that I had two mouths
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I

should provide more. ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
commonly used to do; upon which, I marked
|Out a larger. piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
execution of which I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work more
hardy, or with better will than he did; and
when I made him sensible that it was for
bread to serve him as well as me, he then very
passionately made me understand, that he
thought I had much more labour on his ac.
count, than I had for myself; and that no
pains or diligence should be. wanting iu ii'im,
if I would but direct him in those works
wherein he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was wont to call for, and the places
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongue, which had been so many years
unused, except wbsn praying to God, or con-
versing with my poll, now began to be occu-
pied, in teaphing, and talking to my man Fri-
day; for indeed I had such a singular satisfac-
tion in the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
more every day, that I really began entirely
to love him; and for his part I believe there
was no love loit, and that his nature had lieeu
more charmed by my exceeding kindness,'and
his affections more placed upon me, than upon
any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen. -
I once had a great desire to try if. he
had any hankering inclination to -his- own
country again : and by this time having taught
him English so well, that he could give me
tolerable answers to any question which I de.
maoded, I asked him whether that nation to
which he belonged ever conquered in battle?
This question made Friday smile, and' to
which he answered Yes, yes, we alzsays fight the
better; as much as to say, they always got
the better in fight. You say, said I, that yon
always fight the better; why then, Friday, how
came you to be taken prisoner? -'-
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat
Biuch.
i Master. How, say you, beat! if your'na-
tion beat them, how came you to be taken?
- Friday. They more many mans than my
nation in the pjace where me was, they take
one, two, three, and -me ;- my nation much
overheat theln in the yonder place where ine
no was, there my nation mans beat oue, two,
three great thousands.
. Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies? .
.i Friday. They. fun onej two, or three, and
me; they make all go into the canoe; mynr.*
tion have no eanoe that time.
H
. Master. 'Us very well, Friday; but what
does your nation do with the prisoners they
take? Do they carry them away and eat
them as they have done?
* Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too,
eat up all;
Master. To yhat place do they carry them
to be devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where tbey
think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over!
other place. *
Master. And have yon bee'n with them here,
Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
northwest of the island, being the side where-
they used to land J
Thus having gotten what account I could
from .ny man, 1 plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can.
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon this same?
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for 3
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where he pointed; and no sooner did he Come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig.
nifyihg to me that he was once there when
they ate up twenty men, two Women and a
young child; but as he could not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them.
My next question was, how far it was from
the island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often lost in the ocean? to which he
answered, there was no danger; that no ca.
noes were ever lost; but that after a little
way put to the sea, there was a strong cur.
rent, and a wind always one way, in the after-
noon. This' I thought at first t» be no more
than the sets of tide, of going out or coming
In; bujt I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draught and reflux, of the
mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulpb,
of which, I imagined my kingdom lay; and
that the land which I peraeived to the W. anq
N. W. must be the great island Trinidad, on
the north of the river.
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect information of my man
had led me to, was very comfortab|e fo me,
and made me so curious as to ask him, how I
might depart from this island, and get amongst
those white men? He told me, Yes, Yes, 1
might go in two canoes. In two Canoes, thought
I, what does my man mean. And, indeed it
was a long time before I understood his mean-
ing, which was, that it must be a large boat,
as big as two canoes, able to bear with the
waves, and not so liable to be overwhelmed as
one must be.
I believe there js no state of life but what
may be happy, if people would but endeavour
n'2
for their part to make. it so. He is not the
happiest man that has the most riches, but he>
that is content with what he hath. Before I
had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him ; and now that I had enjoyed
the happy benefits of him, I still complained,
and begged a deliverance from a place of re.
tirement, ease and plenty, where Providence
bad sufficiently blessed me. In a word, from
this time, I entertained some hopes, that one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to*
make my escape from this island, and that:
this poor savage might be a great furtherance
thereto. .
I now began to instruct my servant, in the?;
saving kn&wledge of the true Deity, in which
the directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.
Friday, said I, you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty-
Being existing, by whose power all things
were made, and whose majesty shall have no:
enc?. To be glorified and adored by brings of *
a heavenly nature, he created angels and arch-.
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-:
6elf to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise, in the most heavenly sounds-
and divine harmony. .'
I found it easy enough to imprint the right-
notions in his mind of God: fpr nature assisted. .
me in all my arguments, to shew him plainly
the necessity of a great and overruling, go..
verning power, of a secret directing providence,
and of the equity and reasonableness of paying
adoration to our Creator*
-I then entered Into a long discourse with;
hira, pj?oo the subject of the 'world's redemp-
tion by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer.
Jesus Christ,
By the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as I read them to my man Friday^
I earnestly endeavoured to make him under-
stand every part of them as much as lay in my
ppwer. He also, on the other hand, by his
very serious questions and enquiries, made me
a much better proficient jn Scripture know.
ledge, than I should have been b.y my own pri-
vate reading and study.
Yon may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and 1'be-
came most intimately acquainted, and that
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood; and indeed, he spoke
very fluently, thqugh it was but broken Eng-
lish. ' I now took a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my adventures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast on this island.
I made him understand that wonderful mys.
tery, as be conceived, of gunpowder and bul-
let, and taught him how to shoot. T also pre-
sented to him a knife, which pleased him ex-
ceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like. those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
to put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good, but even a better wea-
pon .upon many occasions. In a. word, my
maVi thus accoutred, looked upon himself ag.
great as Don Quixote, when that celebrated.
champion went to combat the windmill.
I next gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of my misfortune in being shipwrecked;
showing him, as near as I could, the place
where the ship lay, which had been gone long
before; but I brought him to the ruins of my
boat, which, before, my whole strength could
not move, but now was almost rotten and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday
to view this boat with an uncommon curiosity j
which when he had done, he stood pondering .
a great while, and said nothing. At last, said
I, Friday, what makps you 'ponder so much?
He replied, O master, me see like pout come to
place at my nation. . ,
It was some time, indeed, before I under-
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into it, I plainly found, that such ano-
ther boat, resembling mine, had come upon
the country where he dwelt; that is to say,
by his farther explanation, that the boat was
driven there through stress of weather.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very
well, making every thing plain to my under-
standing; but beyond measure was 1 satisfied
when he told me with great warmth and ar-
dour, O master,we save white mans from drown;
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the
boat; Yes, yes, said i\efthe boat full, very full
of white mans. How many, Friday, said J.
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and" couiif-,
ed-seventeen. And when I asked Kim what
became of them all, and whether they lived'
or not? he replied,.'l?e*, master, they all. Hie,.
they be live among my nation. This informa,'
tion put fresh 'thoughts into my head, thaf.
these must be the very men'. who before I
concluded had been swallowed up in the ocean,
after they had left their ship that had struck
upon the rocks of my kingdom, and after .
escaping the fury of the cleep, landed upon the
wild shore, and committed themselves to the
fury of the devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one ano-
ther, which consequently, as I thought, must
be acted with greater barbarity to strangers,'
created in me a great anxiety, and made me
still more curious to. ask Friday concerning
them. He told me, he was sure they still lived"
there, having resided among them above four
years, and that the savages gave them victuals .
to live upon. But pray, Friday, said .I, whence
proceeded all this good nature and generosity?
How came it \o pass that they did not kill
and eat there, to please their devouring ap. .
petites; and occasion so splendid an enter. .
tainment among them ? ":.Np9': no, said Friday,
they not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em; .
by which I understood there was ' a truce be-
tween them. . And then! had a more favour- .
able opinion. of Jjhe Indians, upon Friday's ui-y.
tering the words: My nation father natitn
no eat man's but when mans make war jSght:
as though be had said, that neither 'those of
his kingdom, nor any other nations that he
knew of, eirer ate their fellow-creatures, but
such as their law of arms allowed to be de.
voured: that is, those miserable captives,
whose misfortune it should be to be made
prisoners qf war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather, my man
and I stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence'I had once before beheld the
continent of America. I could not tell imme-
diately what was the matter: for suddenly
Friday, fell a jumping and dancing as if he
bad been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of his behaviour, Ojoy, said he, 0 glad!
there see my coywlry, there my nation, there
while mans gelher. And indeed such a tap.
lurous sense of pleasure, appeared in bis ccun.
tenance, that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be
in his own country again. This made me not
so well satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no dis.j
pute, but that if he could get back thither
again, be would not only be unmindful of
what religion I had taught him, but likewise
»t the great obligation he owed me for hit
Mor^derful deliverance.; nay, that he would
»ot only inform his countrymen of me, but
accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom,
and .make me a -miserable sacrifice, like those;
unhappy wretches taken in battle. ...... .
Indeed I was very much to blame to have
these cruel, and unjust suspicions, and must
freely own I wronged the poor. creature very-
much, who was of a.quite contrary.temper,
And had he had that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have,- he would cer.
tainiy have perceived my coldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very. much con*
cerned upon that account.
As we were walking up the same- hill ano-
ther day, when the - weather was so hazy at
sea, that 1 could not perceive the continent,
Friday, said I, don't you wish yourself to be
in your own country, your own nation, among,
your old friends. and acquaintances? Yes%
said he, me much O glad to be at my own
nation. And what would you do there, Fri-
day? Would you turn wild again, eat man's
fleshy and be a savage a* y.ou were formerly?
No, no, (answered he, full of concern, andi
shaking his head) Friday note tell them to live.
good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat corn.
dread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man again. But;
surely, replied I, if you should offer to do all .
this, they will kill you; and to manifest their.
contempt of such instruction, eat you up when.
they have done; He then put on a grave, yet
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, No,
they no-kill me, they willing love- learn: that is,;
tfiatthey would be very willing to learn I add.;
ing withal, that they had learned very much «f
the bearded mans that came in the boat. Will
you, said I, go back again, Friday? He
smiled at that, and told me, that he could not
swim so far. But said I, I will make a canoe
for you: Yes, master, said he, me go if you go,
me no go if you stay. I go, Friday! why
would you have them eat me up, and devour
your kind master? No, no, said he, me make
them no eat master, and me makethem much love
you; that is, he would tell them how I had
slain his enemies, and thereby saved his life,
for which reason he would make them love me:
and then he related to me, as well as he was
able, how exceeding kind those of his nation
-were to the white, or bearded men, as he
called them, who in their great calamity, were
driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong
inclinations to venture over, and use my ut.
most efforts, if possible, to join with these
white bearded men, who undoubtedly were
Spaniards or Portuguese; for, thought I, it
must be certainly a better and safer way, to
escape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an island forty miles off
the shore, and without any assistance. Some
days after, Friday and | being at work, a«
usual, at the same time diverting ourselves
with various discourses, I told him I had a
boat which I would bestow upon him, when.
ever he pleased to return to his own nation:
and to convince him of the truth of what I

said, I took him with me to the other side of
the island, where my frigate lay, and thea
taking it from under water (for I always kept
it sunk for fear of a discovery) we both went
into it to see how it would manage such an
Expedition.
And really riefer could any. be more dex-
terous in rowing than my faithful servant, mak-
ing the boat go as fast again as 1 could. Well,
now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to your
much desired nation? But, instead of meet-
ing with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
io; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
age. Upon which $ I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly, the next
day went to the place, where the first boat
lay, which I had made, when all the strength
I had, or art I could use, failed me in my at-
tempt to get it into the Water: but now it har.
ing lain in the sun two and twenty years, and
no care being taken of it all that while, it be.
came in a manner rotten. My man told me,
that such a boat would do very well for the
purpose, sufficient to carry enough villle, dring,
bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed, upon my
design of going over with him to the oonti.
nent, I very plainly told him, that we would
feoth go and make a boat full as big, and more
proportionable than that, wherein he might
safely return to his own nation, v" - . >. •
Go your wayj since you1 desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I" was before I saved
your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words, Go me away,
leave-master away, said he, after a long silence,
no, no, Friday die, Friday live not master gone;
as though he! had said, 1 neither can nor. will
live, if my master sends me from him. Friday
felt towards me the greatest gratitude, and the
most sincere love; he found me not only his
deliverer, but his preserver-and comforter; not
a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, loving,
and affable friend. He wanted for no manner
of sustenance; and when he was-ill, or out of
order, 1 was his physician, not only for his
tody, bat his soul j and therefore no wonder
was it, that such an innocent creature, long
since divested of his former natural cruelty,
should have an uncommon concern at so cruel
a separation from me, which pierced him to the
very soul, and made him desire even to die, ra.
ther than live without me. -
After I had told Friday, in a very careless
inanntr, that he should be at his liberty as
soon as the boat was made, the language of
liis eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
-when, immediately running to one of his
hatchets,^ which he used to wear as a, defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart
so full, that he could scarcely speak. Friday,
slid I, what Is it you mean? What must I do
with this? Only kill Friday, said he, Friday
care not live long. But what must I kill youi
for? replied I again. Ah, dear master, what
made you Friday save from eat a me up, so keep
long Friday, make Friday love God, and now
Friday send away, never see Friday mare.
And while he spoke thus, the tears ran down
his cheeks in such a plentiful manner, that I
had much ado to refrain from weeping also,
when I beheld the poor creature's affection-: so
that l#was forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him,
if he was content to abide with me, I should be
ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his affection, he
said, 0 master, me not care to be in my nation,
leave you here, me desire nation learn good,
that's all/ meaning, that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with him. And indeed,
I began to desire to go also, from my late
discourse with Friday, about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven flpori
the barbarian coast; whom I designed to join,
as the only means to further our escape. To
-which intent, my man and I went to search for
a proper tree to fell, whereof we might make
a perigua or canoe, to undertake the voyage;
and, indeed, we were not long in finding one
fit for our purpose, th«re being enough of
wood in the island to have built a fleet of large
I
vessels, but the. thing vre principally wanted1^
was. to get one so near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not com.
rait so horrid a mistake as I had done once
before.
Well, after a great seatch for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge;of the most proper tree,
yet I shewed him a much better and «leaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before r
for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but I then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach'
ing him at the same time hew to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time we finished it, making it
very handsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this, it took us a
full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did, as it Were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty men, with all tire
6De imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be
Sure, at the launching of this man of war of
mine, I was no less amazed to behold with what
dexterity my man could manage" her, turn
her, and paddle htr along. Well, Friday-,.
said f, what do you think of it now? Do
vou think this will carry us over ? JTw, master^
said he, we venture over well, though great blow
wind. But my design was yet farther, which
he was insensible of; and that to make a mast
and a sail, and provide her with an anchor
and cable. As to a mast that was no diffi..
cult thing at all to procure: so fixing upon a
Straight young cedar tree, which I found near
the place, (great pleuty of it abounding in the
island) and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to shape.
and order it; but as to the sail, that, I managed
myserW I very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, which hid lain six
and twenty years by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking I should have no
occasion to use them any more, when 1 came
to look over them, I found them almost all
rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awk.
ward tedious stitching for want of needles, at
length I finished a three-cornered u^ly thing
like that we call in England, a shoulder of mut-
ton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
a small sprit at the top, like those which
our long.boats use, and which I very well knew
how to manage, especially since it was like
that which 1 had in my patron's fishing boat,
when with my boy Xury, I made my escape
from the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, [ think, before I
completed this work, that is, the rigging, and
fitting up my mast and sails; and indeed they
were uieiily done, having made a small stay,
i. —
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if \v«
riiould turn to the windward; and, which waN
still more, [ fixed rudder to the stern of her,
to steer with; and though I was but a very
indifferent shipwright, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
df a thing like this, I applied myself to it witii
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design ; hut what with the many-
dull contrivances I had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering as in making the boat. l^ides,
when all this was done, I had my to
teach what belonged to its navigation; for
though he very well understood how to pad.
die a canoe alone, ho was an utter stranger to
a s*il and a rudder, and was amazed when ha
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some time, and a little use,
I made all these things ve*y familiar to him,
go that he became an expert sailor, except i i
relation to the compass, and that I could mak<*
hira understand but little of. But as it hap.
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, ther«
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex.
cept in the rainy season, which confined every
one to his habitation. Thus entered in to the
fieven-aiid.twentieth year of my reign or cap.
tmty, which you please, (the. last three of |
which,'blessed with l(ie compariy'of my man j
Friday, ought not to tie reckoned) 1 kept the I
anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies,
as I did before; and certainly, as I had great
cause for thankful acknowledgement for my
deliverance at first, 1 liad much greater now
for such singular and additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, in all my dis-
tresses of both body and mind, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had a strong impression upon
my mind, that I should not be another year
in this island. But, however, I still continued
on with my husbandry, digging, planting, and
fencing, as usual; gathering and curing my
grapes, and doing all other things that were
n<jc«5sary, ,
And now the rainy season beginning to
come on, obliged me to k»ep the longer within
doors: but before this. 1 brought my new ves-
sel into the creek, where 1 had landed my
rafts from ths ship; so we waited for the
months of November and December, in which
I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather be-
gin to draw near, but so much was I elevated
with this new designed adventure, that I daily
prepared for the voyagp. The first thing £^
thought on wa«,to lay by a certain quantity|.?»f
provisions, as a suiljcient store for such i jn
A
expedition, intending in a week or a fort-.
night's time to open the dock, and launch out
Ihe boat for that purpose. But one morning,
as I was very busy upon something necessary
for this occasion, I called Friday to me, and
bid him to go to the sea shore, and see if he
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for the sake of the
flesh. He had not been long gone, but he
came running back, as though he was pur-
sued for life, and as it were flew over. my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on: before I
had time to enquire the reason of his precipi.
tation, he cries out, O dear master, O sorrow J
sorrow! Bud! O bad! Why, what's the
matter, Friday? said I. O yonder, yonder,
said he, t/tcre be one, txzo, three canoes! two,
three.
Surely (thought I) there must be six, by my
man's way of reckoning ; .but on a stricter en-
quiry, I fi und there were but three. Well,
Friday, said I, don't be terrified. I warrant
you we will defend ourselves against them.—
But though I comforted him in the best man-
ner I could, the poor creature trembled so,
that I scarci-ly knew what to do with him: O,
master, said he, they come look Friday, cut
pieces Friday, cut a me up.
Why, Friday, said I, they will eat meup as
well as you, aud my danger is as great as
I 4
your's. But since it is so, we must resolve to
fight for our lives. 'What say you? Can you
fight, Friday? Yes, said he very faintly, me
shoot, me kill uhat 1 can, but there come great
many number. That's no matter, said I again,
our guns will terrify those that we do not kill;
1 am very willing to stand by you to the last
drop of my blood.
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me,
and obey my orders in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answered, O master, me lose life
for^yuu, me die when you bid die. Thus con.
eluding all questious concerning his fidelity,
I ordered him to take the two fowling pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets;
then I took four muskets and loaded them .with
two slugs, and five small bullets each ; charging
my two pistols each with a brace, I hung my
great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excel-
lent weapon for defence.
Thus prepared, I. took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I perceived very soon,
by my glass, that there were one and twenty sa_
-vages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the tri-
umphant banquet upon three poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served was very common with them. Upon
yhich 1 called to Friday; and shewing him a
great tree, that was just at the corner of the
wood, near which they were, I ordered him to
repair thither, and bring me word, if he'could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly, he
did as I commanded him, and came back with
1his melancholy story, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of/their pri,
toners; and that another lay bound upon the
tanrl, a little distance from them,Whom they
designed for their next sacrifice; and this he
fold me, was not one of their nation, but one
of those very bearded men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to me about. You may be
*ure, that, upon hearing this, my soul was
jeady to sink within me; when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
Iris Hands tied with flags or things resembling
lushes, being covered with clothes, and seem,
ingto be an European. From the tree where I
took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than where I was, which, by
faking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I shoald be within half
» shot of these devourers. I therefore got
l'fhind some bushes, which held all the way
till 1 cajne to the other tree; and then 1 as.
<ind<d to a little rising ground, not above
tightien yards distance, and there I had a full
%\vw of these creatures, and could perceive ali
lhtii actions.
I 5
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged
me not to lose a moment's time. No less than
nineteen of those dreadful wretches sat upon
the ground, close huddled together, express-
ing all the delight imaginable at so barbarous
ah entertainment; and they had just sent the
other two to murder this poor unhappy Chris-
tian, and bring him limb by limb to their fire;
for they were then just going to untie the
bands from his feet. Hereupon, immediately
turning to my man, Now, Friday, said 1,
mind what [ say, fail in nothing, but do ex-
actly as you see me do. All which- he pro.
nvising to perform, i sf.t down one of my mus-
kets, and the fowling-piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the same by his; and with
the other musket [ took my aim at the savages,
bidding him to do the like: Are you ready,
said 1; Yes, master, said he, why then fire at
them, said I; and at that very moment I gave
fire likewise.
I only killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than
1, killed two, and wounded three. You may-
be sure they were in a dreadful consternation,
at such an unexpected disaster; and those
who had yet escaped our penetrating shot,
immediately jumped upon their feet, but were
in such a confusion, that they knew not which
way to run or look; not knowing from whence
their destruction came. We threw down our
pieces, and took tip others, giving a second
dreadful volley; but as they were loaded only
with swan shot, or small pistol bullets, we
perceived only two of them fall, though many
were wounded who ran yelling and screaming
about like mad creatures. Now, Friday, said
I, lay down your piece, und take up the mus-
ket, and follow me. He did so with great
courage, when shewing ourselves to the sa-
vages, we gave a great shout, and made directly
to the poor victim, who would have been sa-
crificed, had not our first fire obliged the
butchers, with three others, to jump into a
canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them,
at which shot I thought he hud killed them
all, by reason of their falling to the bottom of
the boat; however he killpd two, and mortally
wounded a third. Til the mean time I cut the
flags that tied the hands and feet of the poor
creature, and lifting him up, asked him in the
Portuguese tongue What he teas? he answered
me in Latin, ChrMianus: but so very weak
and faint that he could scarcely stand or speak.
And I next asked him, what countryman he
was? He said Espaniola, and then uttered all
the thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Signior, (said 1 with as much Spanish as I was
master of) let us talk afterwards but fight now;
here, take this sword and pistol, and do what
you can. And indeed, he did so with such
courage and intrepidity, that he cut two of
them to pieces in an instant. I ordered Friday
to run for the guns we had left at the tree,
which he brought to me with great swiftness, and
then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
Test. But now there happened a fierce en-
counter between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their
wooden swords; and though the former was as
brave as could be expected, having twice
wounded hi. enemy in the head; yet being
weak and fan!, the Indian had thrown him
upon the gn und, and was wresting my sword
out of his hand, which the Spaniard very wisely
quitting, drew out his pistol, and shot him
through the body before I could come near
him, though I was running to Iris assistance.
As to Friday, he pursued the flying wretches
with his hatchet, dispatching three, but the
rest were too nimble for him. The Spaniard
taking one of the fowling pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wood, Friday pur-
sued and killed; but the other, notwithstand.
ing his wounds, plunged himself into the sia,
and swam to those who were left in the canoe,
which with one wounded, were all that escaped
out of one and twenty.
The savages in the cunoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them; and, indeed, I was
no less anxious about their escape, lest, after
the nrws had been carried to their people,
they should return in multitudes, and destroy
.tis. So being resolved to pursue them, I
jumped into one cf their canoes, and bid Fr^-
day follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I found another poor creature,
bound hand and foot for the slaughter, just
as the Spaniard had been, with very little life
in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up; but he could nei.
ther stand nor speak but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in order to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; when pulling
out my bottle, I made the poor wretch drink a
little, which, with the joyful news be had re.
ceived, so revived his heart, that he sat up in
the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for he kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his faee
and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature: so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter with him;
but when he came to the liberty of his speech,
at last he told me it was his father.
Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
that dutiful and tender affection this poor sa-
vage had to his aged parent. He would sit
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to cherish liim; then he took
- ::- - 158
Ha arms and ankles, which were stiff and numb.
ed, with binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands; by which means, perceiving
what the case was^Lgave him some rum, which
proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the sa-
vages had gotten almost out of sight; and
happy it was we did not pursue them: for
there arose from the north west, such a violent
storm, which continued all night long, that
I could not suppose otherwise but that they
were all drowned. After this, I called Friday
to me, and asked him, if he had given his fa-
ther any bread? He shook his head, and said,
None, not one hit, me eat a up all; so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch 1 carried
for this end. I likewise gave him two or three
bunches of raisins fot his father.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he
was bewitched, with' such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight as it were
in an instant; but, at his return, I perceived
him: slacken his pace, because he had some.
llsrngin his hand. And this I found to be, as
he approached nearer, an earthen jug with
some water for his father, with two more cakes
of bread, .which he delivered into my hands.
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
wafer, of which when his fa;ther had drank suf-
ficiently, it more revived his spirits than all the
rum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry one of the cakes, and some water to
the Spaniard, who was reposing himself npon a
green place under the shade of a tree, but so
weak, that though he.exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which, I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum,
as he did his father's. But every minute he-
was employed in this, he would cast his eyes
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightning to him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
back to me presently, and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him, and lead him
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
xlose by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the beat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the-creek, away he runs
to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafling me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
I was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow j
and when I came to my castle, not being wil-
ling to make Nan entrance into my wall, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with.old
-sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upoa
fend cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, 1
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjecfs,
I ordered Friday to kill me a yeaihog goat;
which when he had done, I cut oft' the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small 'pieces,
bjOiled and stewed it, putting barley and rice
into the broth. This I carried into their tent,
set a table, dined with them myself, and en-
couraged them. Friday was my interpreier to
his father, aud indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the savages pretty-
well. After dinner, I ordered Friday to fetch
home all our arms from the field of battle, and
the next day to bury the dead bodies, which he
did accordingly. ,
Aud now I made Friday enquire of his fa-
ther, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe, and if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a laud where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attained their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make them
tell their people, that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirit*
(meaning Friday and me) who- were sent froni
above to destroy them. And this, he said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same
to one another. And indeed he was in the
.right on't; for I have heard since, that these
four men gave out, that whoever went to that
enchanted island, would be destroyed by lire
from the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead
of which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his nation. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, rrfade their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the sa-
vages, jet they were very miserable for want
of provisions and other necessaries. When I
asked him about the particulars of his voyage,
lie answered, that their ship was bound from
liio da la Viola to the Ilavannah; that when
the ship was lost, only five men perished in the
ocean; the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said I.
lie replied, they bad concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither tools nor provisions, so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing (said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite them here,
would they not carry me prisoner to NcmSjiaia l
ke answered no; for he knew (hem to be such
honest men, as would scorn to act with such
inhuman baseness to their deliverer: that if I
pleased, he and the old savage would go over
to them, talk with them about it, and bring ni^
an answer: that they should all swear fidelity
to me as their leader, upon the holy sacrament;
and, for his part, he would not only do the
same, but stand by me to the last drop of his
blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over
for that purpose; but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised en objection, which
carried a great deal of weight in it: You knozo,
Sir, said he, that having been some time with
you, I cannot but be sensible that your stock of
rice and corn, may be sufficient, perhaps, for us
at present, but not for them, should they come
over presently; much less to victual a vessel for
an intended voyage. And therefore, my advice
is, to zeait another harvest, and in the mean
time, cultivate and improve some more land,
zzhercby ue may have plenty of provisions, in
order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard, I approved ex-
tremely ; and so satisfied was i of his fidelity,
that f esteemed him ever after. And thus we
all four.went to work upon some more land, and
against seed-time, we had gotten so much cured
and trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow %%
i'yshe.'s of bai ley on} and 16 jars of rice} which
wt> were four in rvumber, and by this time all in
good health, we feared not an hundred of In-
dians, should they venture (o attack us; and
while the .corn was growing, I pitched upon
pome trees, fit to build us a large vessel, in
case the Spaniards came over; which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
row my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
the work. I likewise cncreased my flocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bring.
ing home their Eids to my inclosure; nor did
I neglect the grape season, but cured them as
usual, though I had such a quantity now, as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har.
vest came, God Almighty blessed the increase
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffi-
cient to victual a ship fit to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America,
Thus the principal objection being answered,'
by a sufficient stock of provisions, 1 sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, Avith a
regal authority to administer the oaths of alle-
giance and fidelity, and have an instrument
signed under th*>ir hands, though I never asked
whether they had pen, ink, or paper; when giv-
ing each of them a musket with eight charges
uf powder and ball, and provisions enough for
eight days, they sailed away witti a fair gale,
on a day when the moon was at full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head;
but, impatient for their return, I laid me down
to sleep one morning, when a strange accident
happened, which was ushered in by my man's
coming running to me, and calling aloud, Matt
ter, muster, they are come, they are come. Upon
which, not dreaming of any danger, out I jump-
ed from my bed, put on my cloches, and hur-
lied through my little grove; when looking to-
wards the sea, I perceived a boat, abouta league
and a half distant, standing in for the shore,
with a fair wind. I beheld they did not come
from the side where the. land lay on, but from
the southmost end of the island. So these
being none of the people we wanted, I ordered
Friday to lie still, till such time as I came down
from the mountain, which, with my ladder I
now ascended, in order to discover more fully
what they were; and now, with 'he help of my
perspective glass, I plainly perceived an ringlislt
ship, which I concluded it to be, by the fa-
shion of its long boat; and which filled me
with such uncommon transports of joy, that I
cannot tell how to describe; and yet some se-
cret doubts hung about me, proceeding from' I
know not what cause, as though 1 had reason
to be on my guard.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat
to approach the shore, as thpugh they looWd
for a place where they might conveniently lane?)
and at last they Tan their boat on the shore upon
the beach, about half a mile distance; which
proved so much the happier for me, since, had
they come.into the creek, they had landed just
at my df»or, and might not only have forced me
out of my castle, but plundered me of all I
had in the world. Now I was fully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of whom were
unarmed and bound; when immediately, the
first four or five leaped on shore, and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners, one
of whom I could perceive, used the most pas-
sionate gestures of entreaty, affliction and de-
spair, while the others In a less degree,
shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned.
to Friday, -wiio was below, to ascend the
mountain, and likewise view this sight. O mas-
ter, said he to me, you see English mans eat
orisoners as Kelt as Savage mans. And do you
think they will eat them, Friday ? said I. Yes,
said Friday they eat a all up. No, no, said I,
Fridayi 1 am much more concerned lest they
murder them; but as for eating them up, that
I ani sure they will never do.
And novvl not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and Savage with
me, but also that I could not come within shot
of thf-m unperceived, (they having no fire arms
amon<* them) and save these three men, whom
1 thought they were going to kill with their
swords. But some comfort !t was to me, that
I percfived they were set at liberty to go where
they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the
place; and so long did they negligently ram-
ble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave
the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect: for having
drunk a little too much liquor, they fell fast
asleep; t)ut one of them waking before the
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move if, he hallooed. out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it,
all their force was ineffectual to launch her,
when I could hear them speak. to one another,
Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye, she'll float
next tide: by which words I -was fully con-
vinced they were my own countrymen, I this
while lay very quiet, as being fully sensible
it could be no less than ten hours before tho
boat would be afloat, and- then it would be so
dark, that they could not easily perceive me,
by which means I should be at more liberty to
hear their talk, and observe all their motiqns;
not but that I prepared for my defence: yet
as I had another sort of enemy to combat with,
I acted with more caution. I took two fusees
on my shoulder, and gave Friday three mus-
kets; besides my formidable goat skin, and
monstrous cap, made me look as Gerce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when tw»
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
Sword was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, too
anxious to get any repose, were however,
seated under the shade of a great tree, about
a quarter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man follow-
ing behind me, and, before I Was perceived, I.
called aloud to them in Spanish, what are yo
gentlemen f
At these words they started up in great con»
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed as
if they would fly from me: Gentlemen, (said I
in English) don't be afraid,perhaps you have a
friend nearer than you expect. He must be
from heaven, said one vf ihem, gravely pulling
off his hat, for we are past all help in this
world. All help is from Heaven, said I, but Sir,
as I have perceived every action between you
and these brutes since your landing, only inform
me how to assist you, and 1 will do it to iha
utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man? said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind, -or an
angel? Sir, said I, my poor habit will tell you
I am a man, and an Englishman, willing to
assist you, having but this servant only, here
are arms and ammunition: tell freely your
condition, can we save you? The story. said
be, is too long to relate, since our butchers arc
near: but, Sit;, I was master of that ship,
my men have mutinied, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex.
pect nothing but perishing here. Are your
enemies gone ? said I. No, replied he (point-
ing to a thicket,) there they lie, while my
heart trembles, lest, having seen and heard us,
they should murder 4is all. Have they fire-
arms? said I. They have but two pieces, said
he, one of which is left in the boat: He also-
told me, there were two enormous villains
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
the rest might be induced to return to their obe-
dience.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him>and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sufficient, and firing myselfj killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late to colt
for assistance, you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy: and so knocked him
down with.the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who,1 at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear r
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
Captain to keep them bound. After which
I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat, and bring away the oars and sail j
when the men, seeing their late distressed Cap-
tain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, Which - he heard with a serious at-
tention. After this, I carried him and his two
companions into' nVy little fortified castle, shew-
ed them all my conveniencies, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about regain-
ing the ship: he said that there were twenty-
six hands on board, who knowiug their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
deed; but something we must resolve on, and
immediately put in execution: We therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
she could not shoot off at high watermark, aud
broke a hole in her not easy to be stopped; so
that all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with tea
men armed, whose faces the Captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief offi-
cer; but he said .there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspi-
racy. Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
(for I had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assistance, we thought
ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
buf fired, for their companions to" hear, yet
they received. no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if
they would return to the ship. I could per-
ceive the Captain's countenance change at this,.
till, of a sudden three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
onshore, in order to search for their compa-
nions: and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a greafcdistance in the .woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till.night, when I might
use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sudden they started. up, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woods,
come round to me again. And, this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
oae of the men out of her, left two to lopjfet
after her, having fastened ber .to the stump of
a little tree on the shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the Captain and our party passing the
creek, out of their sight, we surprized them
both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who, being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time it
was pretty late; when the rest returniiif; to
their boat, which they found aground in the
creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they
Tan about wringing their hands, crying it was
an enchanted island, and that they should bo
all murdered by spirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but I
-would not agree to hazard any of our party.
But to be more certain, Friday and the Cap-
tain crawled upon their hands and feet, as
near as possible; and, whea the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, so eager was the Captain,that
he fired, and killed him on the spot: Friday
wounded the next man, and a third ra;i away.
Hereupon I advanced with my whcle-ariny; and
itbeingdark, I ordered the manwehad surprised
in the boat, to call them by their names, and to
parley with them. Accordingly he called out
aloud, Tom Smith, Tom Smith! He answered,
Who's that; Robinson! answered th» othe.,
For God's sake, Tom, surrender immediately,
or you're all dead men. Who must we sur-
render to? says Smith. To our Captain and a
large Jince here, who have taken me priso?ier}
*2
rtounded Will jTjre, and killed the boatswain.
Shall we have quarters then.5 said he. Here-
upon the Captain calls out, You Smith, you
knew my voice, sun-render immediately, and you
shall have your lives grantfid, ercept Will At-
kins. Hereupon Atkins cries out, What have
I done, Captain, more than the rest, zcho have
been as bad as me; but that was a lie, for he
was the person that laid hold of him, and bound
him. However he was ordered to submit to
the governor's mercy, for such was 1 called.
And so laying down their arms, we bound them
all, and seized on their boat.
After this, the Caplain expostulated with
them, telling them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there;
but he thought (hey would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
he sent to England This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the' ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, 1 sent the Cap-
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would assist in
recovering the ship. Upon which, they all
promised to stand by him till the last drop of
their blood; and whoever acted treacherously
should be hanged in chains upon the beach.
They were all released on these assurances:
and then the Captain repaired to the other
boat, making his passenger Captain of her,
and give him four men well armed; while
Jiimself, his mate, and five more, went in the
other boat. By midnight they, came within
Call of the ship. when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them t|iat with
great difficulty they had found the men at last,
JBut, while they were discoursing, the Captain,
his mate, and the rest entered, and knocked
down the second mate, and carpenter, secured
those that were upon the deck, by putting
them under hatches, while the other boat's
crew entered and secured the forecastle; they
then broke into the round-house, where the
mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate
Captain through the head, upon which all the
rest yielded themselves prisoners. And thus
the ship being recovered, the joyful signal
was fired, which I heard with the gr eatest joy
imaginable; nor was it long before he brought
the ship to an anchor at the creek's mojth,
wher° coming to me unawares, There, says he,
my dearest friend and deliverer, there is your
ship, and zee are your servants: a comfort so
unspeakable, as made me swoon in his arms,
while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten*
derly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board.
Hereupon, concerting with the Captain, I
dressed myself in one of his suits, and sending
for ihem, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with nil my people, if they
JS.3
it
would tarry there, their lives should be spared;
if not, they should be hanged at the first port
they came to. They agreed to stay. Here-
upon I told them my whole story, charging
them to be kind to the Spaniards that were ex-
pected, gave them all my arms, and informing
them of every thing necessary for their subsist-
ence, I and my man Friday went on board.
But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upon which
I prevailed with the Captain to take them in;
and having received some punishment, they
proved more honest for the future. And so I
bid farewell to this island, carrying along with
me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687,after
twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen
days' residence, and landing in England, June
11, 1688, after five and thirty years'absence
from my own country, which rendered mp
altogether a stranger there. 'x
FINIS.
(U* t\ice, bound in sheep, 8(7.— and in grain, 6d.
VERSES
SUPPOSED TO BE WRITTEN BT ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE ISLAND
OF JUAN , FERNANDEZ J IN WHICH HE HAD
LIVED QUITE ALONE, DURING: UPWARDS OF
FOUR YEARS.
I.
I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round-to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute. -
Oh, Solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in this hortible place.
If. ,
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
4
III.
Society, friendship, and lore,
Divinely bestq^v'd upon man,
Oh, had 1 the wi >gs of a dove,
How soon would I taste you ngaiift
My sorrows i then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
Aud be cheer'd by the sallies of youth.
IV.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These vallies and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a sabbath appear'd.
V.
Ye winds, that hare made me ypur sport-.
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
My friends, do they now and then sen<J
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell roc 1 yet have a friend,
Though a friend 1 am never to see.
VJ.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And. the swift winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
Bat, alas! recollection at hand ^ f
. Soon hurries me baot to despair.
vir.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in hi* lair,
Ev-'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every placei
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.

FAMILY MAXIMS.
True Love.
True love will never allow a parent or
ft master to indulge any under his care in bad
dispositions or wrong conduct. A good parent
cannot allow his child to feed on poison ;—bad »
temper is poison—wrong conduct is poison.
Bad Habits.
Beware of the beginnings of bad habits:
the worst habits are acquired, not at once, but
by degrees.
Home.
Use every endeavour to make home a
Scene of happiness and satisfaction, that all
may return to it with willingness and pleasure.
Goodzcill in Families.
Better is the lowliest fare where love and
good-will prevail, than the greatest dainties
with discord and contention.
Angry Passions: *
Angry passions blind the judgment: they
often provoke bad feelings in return, and lead
to many evils.
Forbearance.
"Bear and forbear :" endeavour to "over-
come evil with good," and to live peaceably
with all." "Better is he that ruleth his spir#
than he that taketh a city."
Industry,
Retire early to rest, and be ce early to
rise." Industry promotes health, order, and.
happiness.
Diligence.
Diligence leads to plenty, but "idleness
will clothe a man with rags."
Sloth.
The slothful man is a burthen to himself;
his hours hang heavy ou his head; he loiteretb.
about, and knoweth not what he would do.
His house is in disorder, and he runneth on
towards ruin—he seeth it with his eyes, he
shaketh his head and wishcth, hut hath no re.
solution; till ruin cometh upon him like a
whirlwindj aud shame and repeutanco descenjj
with him to the grave
Neglect. - -
Wholesome food, decent- clothing, and i
iftceut dwelling are ail to be desired if we value
health and comfort: but these may all bo
spoiled aud lost by idleness and neglect.
Order of Place and Time.
u Keep every thing in its' proper place,"
do "every thing in its proper time," and
"delay not till to-morrow what should be done
to-day."
Cleanliness.
Thorough cleanliness is valuable to al'
ranks of people; it tends to brace and strengthen
both the body and the mind.
Temperance, »
Temperance tends to keep the mind clear,
and the constitution healthful: Intemperance
tends dreadfully to the destruction of both.
Independence.
Keep out of debt, and live within your
income, if you would be master of yourselves, *
or desire to have the power of doing kindness
to others. .,
God the source of every good.
Remember that "every good and perfect
gift'' proceeds from God, in whom we "lire
and move and have our being."
All are accountable to God.
On Him we depend for every breath that
we draw; to Him we are accountable every
day that we live.
The Divine Presence every tchere.
Wherever we are, our thoughts are known
to Him; His eye is over all, His power sur*
rounding all.
THE ENI>,
