  'W/CA.
'''' '*- r I
9"l. <<. /f\^ :
L
y
JkT
s s
Z  A
s&
^^t ^.^re"»
sS/ul _
y'
 THE WONDERFUL
LIFE AND SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF THAT RENOWNED HERO,
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
WHO LIVED
€timttt)*etgTjt f>eavtf on ait JUmnfjabitetf ,
Mmrtf,
WHICH HE AFTEIUVAUDS COLONIZED.
LONDON:
WILLIAM DARTON* ANITSON,
IIOLBORN IHLL.
rniNTED r»v j. .masters, aldersgate street.
 THC Al)\liKTl;itKS OF
R O BINSO .N (': II U S O E,
On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on-
board a ship for London, and, without letting my
father know the rout I had taken, set sail; but
no sooner was the ship out of the Humber, than
the wind began to blow, and the sea to rise in a
most terrible manner. Having never been at
sea before, I was extremely sick, and my mind
was filled with terror. The next day the wind
abated, and my companions laughed at my fears,
and with a bowl of punch made me half drunk,
and thus drowned my repentance and reflections.
The weather continued calm several days, and
we went into Yarmouth Roads, where we cast
.anchor. After riding here four or five days, the
wind blew very hard till the eighth day in the
morning, when it still increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike our topmast, and at last
cast our sheet-anchor.
It now blew a terrible storm; I began to see
terror in the faces even of the seamen themselves;
and as the master passed by me, I heard him say
softly to himself, "Lord be merciful to us, we
shall be all lost!"
I cannot express the horror of mind with which
I was seized; I was in ten times more tremor on
account of slighting my former convictions, than'
even at death itself. The storm still increased,
and I saw the master, the boatswain, and several
others, at prayers, expecting every moment the
ship would go to the bottom. One of the men
cried out we had sprung a leak, upon which all
hands were called to the pump, but the water
gained upon us, and it was apparent that the ship
would founder; the storm, however, beginning to
abate, the master fired guns for help, and a ship
which had rode it out just a-head of us, came
near with the utmost hazard, venturing their
lives to save ours; our men casting a rope over
the stern, they, after much hazard, got hold of it,
and we with great difficulty got to land, and
walked to Yarmouth, On my arrival in that*
city, I contracted an acquaintance with the mas-
ter of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea,
and was resolved to go again: he taking a fancy
to me, told me I should have liberty of trading for
myself. Encouraged by this offer, and the assist-
ance of some of my relations, with whom I still cor-
responded,! raised 40/. which I laid out insuch toys
and trifles as my friend the captain directed me.
I got a competent knowledge of the mathema-
tics, navigation, and how to take an observation.
:. ;'In a word, this voyage made me both a sailor
A 1
and a merchant; for my adventure yielded me in
London, at my return, 300/.
I now set up for a Guinea trader, and, my
friend dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to
go the same voyage again in the same vessel,
with one who was his mate in the former voyage,
and had now the command of the ship. This
was one of the most unfortunate voyages ever
made; for, as we were steering ahout the Canary
Islands and the African shore, we were surprised
in the morning by a rover of Sallee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make.
We, finding that the pirate gained upon us, and
would come up with us, prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the pirate eighteen.
Ahout three in the afternoon she came up with
us, and a very smart engagement ensued; but
we were obliged to submit, and were all carried
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the
Moors.
My master having the long-boat of our English
ship, had a little cabin built in the middle of it,
like a barge. In this pleasure-boat he frequently
went fishing; and as I was dexterous at catching
fish, he never went without me. One day he,, ...
appointed to go out with two or three Moors -.of::%.ty:'*.:.,
distinction, and he had sent over-night a larger
store of provisions than usual, and ordered me
to get ready two or three fusils of powder and
shot, for that they designed to have sport at the
fowling as well as fishing. At this moment the
hope of deliverance darted into my thoughts, and
I resolved to furnish myself for a voyage.
Every thing being prepared, we sailed out of
the port to fish; hut purposely catching none, I
told Muley that we must stand farther off, which
he agreed to, and I, having the helm, ran the
boat a league out further, and then brought to,
as if I would fish, when, giving the boy the helm
I stepped forward, and stooping behind the Moor,
took him by surprise, and tossed him over-board;
he rose immediately, and called to me to take
him in, but, fetching one of the fowling-pieces,
I presented it, and told him that if he came near
I would shoot him, and as the sea was calm, he
might easily reach the shore. So he turned
about, and I make no doubt but he reached it
with ease.
I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful
to me, I will make you a great man; but if you
; will not, I must throw you into the sea too."
-;Vr a 3
8
The boy smiled, and spoke so innocently, that I
could not mistrust him.
About ten days after, as I was steering out to
sea, in order to double a cape, on a sudden Xury
called out in a fright, " Master, Master, a ship!"
I jumped out of the cabin, and saw that it was a
Portuguese vessel. On my coming near, they
asked me what I was, in Portuguese, Spanish, and
French; but I understood none of them: at last
a Scotch sailor called to me, and I answered I
was an Englishman, and had made my escape
from the Moors of Sallee. I offered all that I
had to the captain of the ship, but he would take
nothing from me, and told me that all that I had
should be delivered to me when we qame to.the
Brazils. We had a very good voyage to the
Brazils, and the good captain recommended me
to an honest man who had a plantation and a
sugar-house, with whom I lived, and learnt the
planting and making of sugar; after which I took
a piece of land, and became a planter myself.
Had I continued in the station I was now in,, I
might have been happy, but my fellow-planters
prevailed on me to make a trial of purchasing
negroes on the coast of Guinea. We fitted out
a ship, and made sail with the hopes of purchase
Ing slaves to assist in our plantations; we had
very good weather for twelve days, but after we
had crossed the Line, a violent hurricane drove
us quite out of our reckoning. In this distress,
one of our men called out *' Land I" but the ship
struck against a sand-bank. We took to the
boat, and after we had rowed a league and a
half, a wave came rolling a-stern of us, and over-
set the boat at once, so that out of fifteen none
escaped but myself. I got upon my feet, and made
towards the shore, and got to land, clambering
up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon
the grass. Being much fatigued, I got up into
a tree, and slept comfortably till the morning.
When I awoke, it was broad day, and the
storm abated; but what surprised me most was,
that in the night the ship had been lifted from
the land by the swelling of the tide, and driven
almost as far as the place where I landed, and I
saw that if we had all staid on board, we had
been all safe. I swam to the ship, and found she
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in the
hold; but, to my great joy, saw that all the pro-
visions were dry; and being well disposed to eat,
I filled my pockets, and ate as I went about
other things. I found several spare yards and
10
planks, with which I made a raft. I emptied
three of the seamen's chests, and let them down
upon the raft, and filled them with bread, some
dried goats' flesh, and three Dutch cheeses. I
also let down a carpenter's chest, two fowling-
pieces, two pistols, with some powder, and two
rusty swords, all which I placed on my raft, and,
after much labour, got it safely landed. My first
raft being too unwieldly, I swam to the ship and
made another; on which I placed three bags of
nails and spikes, some hatchets, a grind-stone,
two iron crows, several muskets, and another
fowling-piece, two barrels of musket bullets, a
large bag of small shot, all the men's clothes I
could find, a hammock and some bedding, and,
to my great comfort, brought all to land. After
I had made five or six of these voyages, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the
ship worth taking, I found a great hogshead of
bread, three large runlets of rum, a box of fine
sugar, a barrel of fine flour, and three dozen of
good knives and forks. I then went in search of
a place where to fix my dwelling.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle be-
fore a hollow place, which extended about twenty
yards, and drove large piles into the ground,
Siobtntfou €v\m$.
 ALL OF WIIKHI I PLACED ON MY HAFi
A 4
13
sharpened at the top, and the entrance I made
by a short ladder to go over the top, and when
I was in, I lifted it over after me, so that I was
perfectly secure.
In the midst of my labours, when 1 was rum-
maging amongst my things, I found a little bag
with a few husks of corn in it, and shook it by
the side of my fortification: but how great was
my astonishment when I saw ten or twelve ears
of barley springing up: with this barley there
came up a few stalks of rice, and these were of
more worth to me than all the gold in the world.
I then took a view of the island, and at about
two miles distant from my habitation, found
some fine savannahs, and a little farther, a va-
riety of fruit, melons upon th3 ground, and the
trees spread over, and covered with clusters of
grapes. I was so enamoured with this place,
that I built a bower, fenced by a double hedge;
and this country house; as I called it, cost me
two months' labour, but the rainy season com-
ing on, I was obliged to retreat to my old one,
taking with me grapes, which were now become
fine raisins by the drying heat of the sun.
When my corn was ripe, I made me a scythe
with a sword, and cut off the ears, which I rub-
A 5
14
bed out with my hands. At the end of the har-
vest, I guessed that I had a bushel of rice, and
two bushels of barley, I kept all this for seed,
and bore the want of bread with patience.
When I cam:*, to make bread, I had innumera-
ble wants. I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it. However, I had six months
to contrive all these things in. I made some
misshapen pots of clay, that all broke in the sun
except two, which I cased in wicker-work; but
I succeeded better in little pans, fiat dishes, and
pitchers, which the sun baked surprisingly hard;
but they would not bear the fire so as to hold any
liquid, and I wanted one to boil my meat.
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to have
seen me at dinner: there was my royal majesty,
an absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if I pleased
I could either hang, draw, or quarter; I could
give liberty, or take it away. When I dined, I
seemed a king, eating alone, none daring pre-
sume to do so till I had done. Poll, my parrot,
was the only person permitted to talk with.me.:
My old but faithful dog, grown exceeding crazy,
continually was at my right hand: while my two
15
cats sat on each side of the table, expecting a
bit from my hand, as a princely mark of my royal
favour. These were not the cats I had brought
from the ship: they had been dead long before,
and interred near my habitation by my own
hand; but these were a couple I had made tame;
whereas the rest ran into the woods, and grew
so impudent as to return and plunder me of my
stores, till such time as I shot a great many, and
the rest left me with this attendance. One thing
more indeed concerned me, the want of my boat.
I knew not which way to get round the island.
I resolved one time to go along shore by land to
her; but had any one in England met such a
figure, it would either have affrighted him, or
made him burst into laughter.
One day after I had dressed my dinner I went
to put out my fire, and found a piece of one of
my earthenware vessels burnt as hard as a stone;
and as red as a tile; this taught me to burn my
pipkins, and I soon wanted no sort of earthen-*
ware; but when I found that I had made a pot
which would bear the fire, I had hardly patience
to stay till it was cold, before I set it on with a
piece of kid, in order to make me some broth—
which answered tolerably well.
16
I used to burn my earthenware in a cave
which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; but the principal
cause that first brought me here, was to make
charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my bread
and meat without any danger. While I was cut-
ting down some wood for this purpose, I per-
ceived a cavity behind a very thick branch of
underwood. Curious to look into it, I got to its
mouth, and found it sufficient for me to stand
upright in it. But, when I entered and took a
further view, two rolling shining eyes, like flam^
ing stars, seemed to dart themselves at me, so
that I made all the haste out that I could, not
knowing whether it was a savage, or a monster
that had taken up his residence in that place.
On recovering a little from my surprise, I re-
sumed all the courage I had, and taking up a
flaming fire-brand, (see Frontispiece,) in I rushed
again; when not having proceeded above three
steps, I was more affrighted than before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, succeeded by a
broken noise, resembling words half expressed,
and then, a broken sigh again. Stepping back,* -
thought I to myself, "am I got into some 'en>;
17
chanted place, such as is reported to contain
miserable captives, till death puts an end to their
sorrow ?" It struck me with a cold sweat; but
again trusting to God's protection, I proceeded
forward, and by the light of my fire-brand, per-
ceived it to be a monstrous he-goat, lying on the
ground, gasping for life, and dying of mere old
age. When at first I stirred him, thinking to
drive him out, he strove to get upon his feet, but
was not able; so I left him there, to fright any
one from venturing into the cave:
At the furthermost part of the cave I observed
a sort of entrance, but so low as to oblige me to
creep upon my hands and knees to get through;
but, on advancing, I found that it rose in heigh!
about twenty feet, and appeared from the re-
flection of the light I carried with me, to be a
grotto, adorned with diamonds and other precious
stones. I found it dry and comfortable, and there-
fore determined to make it my principal magazine.
While these things were doing, my thoughts
ran many times upon the land I had seen, and I
began to make myself a canoe; the most prepos-
terous enterprise that ever man in his senses
undertook. I felled a great cedar, about five feet
in diameter next the root, but when the impps-
A 6
18
slbility of launching this heavy thing came into
my mind, I gave myself this foolish answer : Let
me but once make it, I'll warrant I'll get it along
when it is done* I made it big, enough to carry
twenty-five men; but all my devices to get it into
the water failed me, for I could no more stir it
than I could the island. I then determined since,
I could not bring my canoe to the water, that I
should bring the water to the canoe, and began
to dig; but when I calculated the time this canal
would take in making, I found I could not ac-
complish it in less than twelve years, and there-
fore gave it over, determining to enjoy what I
had, without repining for what I could not get.
I had at length a great mind to go to the point
of the island to see how the shore lay, and re-
solved to travel thither by land. And now, reader,
I will give you a short sketch of the figure I made.
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's
skin, a jacket with the skirts coming down to
the middle of my thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same with the goat's hair hang-
ing to the middle of my leg. Stockings and shoes
I had none; but I had a pair of somethings, I
scarce knew what to call them, to slip over my
legs like spatterdashes. Under .my arm hung
*-«
p
liobitisoit Ccustoc.
 i was KKCEumstn^ iuiu'iiiSL.!) wnn xiit, i*m>
A 31 AN'ti NAKfct; TOOT,
21
two pouches for shot and powder; on my back I
carried a basket, on my shoulder a gun, and over
my head a great clumsy goat-skin umbrella. My
beard was cut short, except what grew on my up-
per lip; but as for my figure, as I had few to
observe me, it was no matter of consequence.
In this attire I went.on my new journey, and
was out five or six days. In one of my excursions
I was exceedingly surprised at the print of a man's
naked foot on the shore, which was plain to be
seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck;
I listened, I looked around, but I could hear
nothing nor see anything. I went upon a rising
ground to look farther; I walked backward and
forward on the shore, but I could see only that
one impression. I went to look at it again; how
it came there I knew not; but I hurried home to
my fortifications, looking behind me every two or
three steps, and fancied every tree, bush, and
stump, to be a man. I had no sleep that night,
but my terror gradually wore of, and I ventured
down to take measure of the foot by my own, but
I found it much larger. This filled me again
with ridiculous whimsies; and when I went home,
I began to double my fortifications, planted mjf^
seven muskets on the carriages, in the manner "of
22
cannon, and was at the expense of an infinite
deal of labour, purely from my apprehensions of
this print of a foot.
Rambling more to the western point one day
than ever I had done before, I was presently con-
vinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I had
imagined, for, on approaching the shore, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it pos-
sible to express the horror I felt, at seeing the
shore spread with the sculls, hands, feet, and
other bones, of human bodies, and particularly a
place, where, as I supposed, there had been a fire
made, and a circle dug in the earth for the savage
wretches to sit down to their inhuman feasts on
the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I had now been twenty-two years in the island,
and was so naturalized to the place, that had I
been secure as to the savages, I then fancied I
could have been contented to have staid in it till
I had died of mere old age.
One morning very early, I saw five canoes of
the savages on shore. I clambered up a hill, and
by the help of my perspective glass, discovered
no less than thirty dancing round a fire. I soon
after saw two miserable wretches dragged out of
23
the boats, one of whom was immediately, knocked
down, but the other, starting from them, ran with
incredible swiftness along the sand towards me.
I confess I was horribly frightened when I saw
him come my way, imagining he would be pur-
sued by the whole body; however I kept my sta-
tion, and quite lost my apprehension, when I found
but three followed him. He greatly outran them,
and was in a fair way of escaping them all, when
coming to a creek, he plunged into it, landed
and ran as swift as before. Of the three that fol-
lowed, but two entered the water, the other re-
turning back I hastily fetched my guns from the
foot of my ladder, and taking a short cut down
the hill, I clapped myself in the way betwixt the
pursued and the pursuers; then rushing at once
on the formost, knocked him down with the stock
of my piece; the other stopped as if frightened,
but when I advanced towards him, I perceived he
was fitting his bow to shoot me, upon which I
shot him dead directly. The poor savage who
had fled, was so terrified at the noise of my piece,
though he saw his enemies fallen* that he stood
stock-still, but seemed rather inclined to fly than
come forwards. However, when I gave him signs
of encouragement, he came nearer, kneeling down
24
every ten or twelve steps. I then took him away
to my cave at the farther part of the island. Here
I gave him bread and a bunch of rasins to eat,
and a draught of water which he wanted much;
and, having refreshed him> I made signs for him
to lie down on some rice-straw, which the poor
creature did, and soon went to sleep. After he
had slept about half an hour, he waked again,
and came running to me in the inclosure just by.
Then kneeling down again, he made all possible
signs of thankfulness, subjection and submission,
I began to speak to him, and to teach him to speak
tome; and first made him know that his name
should be Friday, which was the day wherein I
saved his life. I taught him to say Master, and let
him know that was to be my name. The next day
I gave him clothes, at which he seemed pleased.
Having now more courage, and consequently
more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me,
and marched to the place where his enemies had
been. When we came there, my blood ran cold
in my veins; the place was covered with human
bones, and the ground dyed with blood; great
pieces of flesh were left here and there half eaten,
mangled, and scorched. We saw three sculls,
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and
25
feet; and Friday by his signs, made me understand
that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, and that three of them were eaten up; that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth, and that
they had been conquered and taken in war. I
caused Friday to collect the remains of this horrid
carnage, then to light a fire, and burn them to
ashes. When this was done, we returned to our
castle.
I was now entering the 27 th year of my cap-
tivity, and intended soon to set sail, when one
morning I bade Friday go to the sea-shore, to see
if he could find a turtle; but he had not long been
gone, when he came running back like one who
felt not the ground on which he trod, and, before
I had time to speak, cried, " 0 Master! O Master!
O sorrow! 0 bad!"- "What's the matter Friday}"
said I.—" 0 yonder, there, (said he,) one, two, three,
—" Well Friday, (said I,) do not be frightened!"
—He was, however, terribly scared, imagining
that they were come to look for him, and would cut
him to pieces, and eat him.
I then took my perspective glass and went
up to the side of the hill, when I saw twenty-one
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes. I bade
him softly bring me word what they were doing;
2G
he did so, and, coming back immediately, told ine
they were aU about the fire, eating the flesh of one
of their prisoners, and that a bearded man lay
bound upon the sand, whom he said they would kill
next. The news fired my soul, and filled me with
horror, and, going to the tree, I plainly saw a
white man clothed, lying on the beach with his
hands and feet tied with flags. I had not a mo-
ment to lose, for nineteen of the horrid wretches
sat huddled together on the ground, and the other
two were stooping down to untie the Christian, in
order to murder him. "Now, Friday, (said I,)
do as you see me do." I laid the muskets down,
and took up one, and then we both fired: we then
fired again, till seventeen of them were killed;
and four of them, getting into a canoe, got out
to sea.
I resolved to pursue them, lest they should re-
turn with a greater force to destroy us, and ran
to a canoe, calling to Friday to follow me: but I
was no sooner in the canoe than I found another
poor creature lying there alive, bound hand and
foot: I immediately cut the twisted flags, and,
seeing that he had been bound so tight that he
was almost dead, I gave him a dram, arid ordered
Friday to tell him of his deliveranee; but when
27
the poor fellow looked in his face, and heard him
speak, it would have moved any one to tears, to
have seen how he kissed, embraced, hugged him,
cried, danced, sung, and then cried again. It
was some time before I could make him tell what
was the matter, but when he came a little to him-
self, he said it was his own dear father. He then
sat down by him, held the old man's head close
to his bosom, and chafed his arms and ankles,
which were stiff with binding.
The white man who was a Spaniard, expressed
the utmost gratitude for his deliverance, gave me
an account of his shipwreck, and the situation of
his companions; when we resolved that Fridays
father and the Spaniard should go in the boat to
fetch them over.
About eight days after they were gone, Friday
awakened me one morning by crying out,' * Master,
they are comer*—I dressed, and hastened to the
top of the hill, and plainly discovered an English
ship lying at anchor. At first I felt in my mind
a tumult of joy, which was soon turned into
fear; for though I knew them to be my country-
men, I had reason to dread them as enemies
They ran the boat ashore on the beach; and
eleven men landed, three of them unarmed; who,
28
by their gestures, seemed to be prisoners; and
one of them I could perceive using the most
passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and
despair, while the two others though their grief
seemed less extravagant, appeared pleading for
mercy. At this instant, I saw a villian lift up Ins
arms to kill one of the prisoners, but he did not
strike him. The men having left the prisoners,
and gone into the woods, I went up to them with
my man Friday, and said to them in Spanish,
"What are your Gentlemen ?" They started at
the noise, but prepared to fly. " I then said in
English, Gentlemen, perhaps you may have a
friend near you whom you little expect. Tell me
your case." "I was commander of that ship,"
replied one of the prisoners; " my men have mu-
tined against me;,and if they do not murder me,
they intend to leave me and these two gentlemen
ashore in this desolate place; they are but in that
thicket, and I tremble lest they should have seen
you and heard us speak." Having concerted mat-
ters with the captain, and armed ourselves, we
went to the sailors; and the captain reserving
his own piece, the two men shot one of the vil-
lians dead, and wounded another. He who was
wounded cried out for help, and I coming up,
H&oiuiuton £ru^oc,
 WHAT A ftp VOl" CEMLFMB "i
31
gave orders for sparing their lives, on condition
of their being bound hand and foot while they
staid in the island.
A little after another boat with ten men and
fire arms approached the shore. We had a full
view of them as they came; the captain told me
three of them were peaceable fellows, but the rest
were desperate wretches. Having formed an am-
buscade, I ordered Friday and the captain to creep
upon their hands and feet, that they might not be
seen, and to get very near them before they fired;
but one of the principal ringleaders of the mutiny
with two of the crew, came towards us, and the *
captain was so eager at having him in his power,
that he let fly, killing him and another on the
spot; the third ran for it. I immediately advanced
with my whole army, upon which Will Atkins,
one of the ringleaders, called out, "For God's
sake, captain, spare my life, the rest are as bad
as I." The captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy, upon which they all submitted.
It was now determined to seize the ship, which,
with the assistance of the faithful part of the crew,
the captain effected thus: Atkins and two of the
worst were sent fast bound to the cave, and the rest
32
committed to my bower. I sent the captain to
tamper with them, in the governor's name, offer-
ing them pardon, if they would assist him in re-
covering the ship; upon which they all agreed to
stand by him till their last drop of blood. They
were all released on these assurances: and then
the captain repaired the other boat, making his
passenger captain, with four men well armed;
while his mate, himself, and five men more, went
in the other. By midnight they came within call
of the ship, when the captain ordered Robinson to
hail her, and tell them that with great difficulty
they had found the men at last. But while they
were discoursing, the captain, his mate, and the
rest, entered and, knocking down the second
mate and carpenter, secured those that were upon
deck by putting them under hatches, while the
other boat's crew entered and securing the fore-
castle, broke into the round-hous*c, where the
mate after some resistance, shot the pirate cap-
tain through the head; upon which all the rest
yielded themselves prisoners. Thus the ship being
srecovered, the joyful signal was. fired.
?.,' When I saw my deliverance thus put into my
hands, I was ready to sink with surprise; I was
not able to answer one word, but a flood of tears
33
brought me to myself, and a little while after I
recovered my speech. I then in my turn embraced
the captain as my deliverer, and we rejoiced to-
gether. Having brought the prisoners before me
I asked them what they had to say in their own
defence, telling them I had power to execute
them there.
They pleaded the captain's promise of mercy.
I then told them that I intended to go passenger
in the ship, with all my men; but that they, if
they went, could only go as prisoners; observing
however, that they might, if they choose it, stay
in the island. This they gladly accepted, and I
prepared to go on-board the next day. The captain
returning to the ship, got every thing ready for
my reception.
When he was gone I talked to the men, told
them my story, how I managed my household
business; instructed them in all I knew, and gave
them my best advice with regard to their be-
haviour to one another.
I divided the tools among them in this manner;
to every man I gave a digging spade, a shovel,
and a rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and
to every seperate place a pick-axe, a crow, abroad
axe, a saw, with a store for general supply, should
34
any be broken or worn out. I left them also nails
staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives, scis-
sors, and all sorts of tools and iron-work; and for
the use of the smith, I gave him three tons of
unwrought iron for a supply: as to arms and am-
unition, I stored them sufficiently to equip a little
army, The next day I went on board the ship,
taking Friday with me.
The next morning two of the men came swim-
ming to the ship's side, desiring the captain to
take them on-board, even if he hung them after-
wards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
others used them. Upon which I prevailed with
the captain to take them in, and, being severely
whipped and pickled, they proved more honest
for the future. And so I bade farewell to the
island, carrying along with me my money, parrot,
umbrella, ;and goatskin-cap, setting sail Decem-
ber 12, 1686, after twenty-eight years, two
months, and nineteen days' residence, the same
"day and month that I escaped from Salle e, land-
ing in England June 11th, 1687, after thirty-five
years' absence from my native country, which
rendered me altogether a stranger to it. 'Some
time after I went to Lisbon, to see after my effects
in the Brazils, and found the generous captain,
who luid heeii so mueh my inend, -till alive, ami
he put me in tin- \v;i\ uf rrcn\cniio- the prodtiee
r)i my plantations. And a few months after, there
wived ships in the Tagns, with eiUets I'm- niyusi-,
tu tht> amount of C.->n.O()0. iH'sidcs.Cl.fiOO su-yi-nr
winch I expected to receive :1111i11:111 \- from my
planiation.
An<l now. revived to harrass mvsrlf no more.
J mn preparing for :, Ion-vr journey than all those,
Jnr i i'Mvc liv.-d sewnly-two years, chequered
with an infinite variety, and iiave been tau:rhr
^niheit ntly the \aluc oi" retircment, and thehle.s-
-n^- ui i ndimr my d;u - in peace, ;un\ in the true
v.-.'.r-hip ti{ U)\ Alnii-i-htv lVJivcn .-.
 CHILDREN'S BOOKS
Written by Mary Elliott,
PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM DARTON AND SON,
58, IIOLBORN HILL.
Price Sixpence, with Plates,
1. Beauty but Skin-deep.
2. Bird's Nest (the).
3. Black Boy (the).
4. Contrast (the,), or How to be Happy.
5. Dumb, Animals, or Cruelty punished.
6. The Greedy Child cured.
7. How to spend a Happy Christmas.
8. Idle Ann, or the Dunce reclaimed.
9. Ill Temper a bad Playfellow.
10. Little Meddler, or One Fault leads to many.
11. —Mimic (the). .
12. Wranglers.
13. Mischief not Fun,
14. No time like the Present.;
15. The Orphan Brothers. ';' ' '<.
16. Progress pf the Quartern Loaf, coloured plates.
17. Rainy Day, or the Pleasures of Employment.
18. Ramble (the), or more paths than One;
19. Sailor Boy, or First and Last Voyage.
20. Sly Ben, or Pleasure defeated.^
21'.' Strength. Wisdom, and Virtue, or Scripture Sketches. -
22. Tell Tale (the).' ; ;'\. * '" v 7 .,
23. Travels of Fancy, or more,Roads than* One.
'24; Truant (the) Reclaimed. >
25. Truth our best Friend. * . '
i 26. Useful Gossip for the Young Scholar, or Tell-tale Pictures.
27. The White.Chicken. ,. "> : '
* MASTERS TRINTER, ALDERSGATE STREET.
 ' ;v  ^;.
