... A
a» ‘ .
4.0 n15“
. .....
2r
40 ..,v..
0V..1.-‘\;.
.1 ‘.
.VKXKD1-95f,
I. . ll‘ ¢On\'|‘
m
W
a
W
‘w
w
m
N
W
Hubbard
Imaginary
 
 
 
 
 
-.-.......--...-.-.-£'.!";.".E'.".'£E'.'£'.‘L‘E'E*'"" “"EEEEL'EEEEH'ZEEE'P""‘“W
 
..-..-...-.'.'!‘.'E‘2“'
.1
 
‘21H
‘ I :EQGQYHQIIH’I'LLNHSHEil
.‘a.
. go: gnaw:
(IY'IO In‘ I '
4-
.m.
III-
v'N‘Q'" “HM-mud swing * _ . l5- 7
 
J. 10
 
 
 
I’
1 -
. \ -' l
I ‘ ¢\
\_ _ .,. ‘ H z W ; i‘
4.< - .~.“ 1-“'" 7r ‘U ‘ v
r.’ _. {- ~ \. A 'u A
J- @H, A” \r.‘ “‘ " x. “"‘1 m‘“ J‘ ‘.
r = w r d . "I ' ‘1
_ M . ~. ‘ u , ~ l >-' '
I ‘ \ -.
n u A "E D
b 4‘»\" 1“ A y .> \ , " | . "
d > ‘p M w r ‘ 1M- w - ’ a J K
1 ‘ ’ k \ i I v ‘ ’ l ‘
n m i v. » ,v u‘ > -' J ' ‘
_ ‘ ( , ‘
‘ J I v ’
‘ v I! J 1!‘ ~ ‘ ’
 
 
.4 ‘m
r
q
a: '
d ‘
1 | ‘
r
~>|
‘m- y
‘A
‘ I 1
. k ‘
_'x w
\- '1'
x
I w‘
,
v ""
¢
u,
o
i a
» ‘ ‘v
I ~
I p
'
".
4
I
v" “
' 4
i ‘
1 n j
k
‘ ‘ l
d M
‘ .7
,_ “r ‘V .
A, ‘
r ,
r ‘~-.
‘. . “ w
‘ - \
1 4
I a .-
P‘ , ‘
r >- r,‘
I ' w"
‘- w
>~ ‘ , m y
' Q ,/
a
w J’
, ‘*l J"
 
 
 
 
H‘ \3
‘a ,4 w‘ -
‘(EL .‘ .a‘
- " , 11"
‘a ‘
.v w "
H \M- M‘
.l._ r
1 1 _ ~
. »: ‘..
‘L,
n. A
\.
_ r
4
I, ‘ .h r
I
‘ 1 ' '
w n r '
,~ 1 ‘.
a v“
I;‘_
H n .
. * '
..\
g \
1 H‘,
J ‘A ,‘ A
J
a. ‘H
r ‘ g .
-
‘
s ,-’.“"“
. 4 \r I \
4 ‘l f
n ' m‘
‘r i . l 1
f] f,“ - 4_
‘ ~ ,‘
"o ‘a ‘r
, . x
“1 \
l N.
, ‘
u u»
‘14 ~ ‘
__. _
- K | ,
- ‘
_ J
1."J “
Wt. _ ,
a" “
¢ h“ w ‘In,
' ,~ A_ H
a " ‘
-. “a '
w
\ '.\ H ,
,/. 1'
‘ ' -‘ ~
. l "r
 
 
 
 
.-_ . \ ,, I D ‘l _ ‘ i
e P w ‘ .~. kw _ 1 ) (r a I,’ > I I; ,‘ I“
' I‘ "'0 l) ' I‘ r (I- 3. ‘1-. a '” 04v ‘\"g- \ _ T \ , g -' “ w 'f-Jk 5 A ‘ v
} ‘ “ I‘ ~ “" Nd‘ w“ ‘ ' ". v \ \‘ .‘w _ \w.
_~ ¢_ 1 _ If _,_ --\ \I‘ :-“v‘ .i . ; \L»“ "I “u': a .~1~‘_
" v \‘ I V ‘(\- l ‘I WW.’ ‘ ‘ I
~# 1, q >',\. a 1 It‘ \ ‘|< “_" ¥~ -, .II b at A“ _ '
I ‘ V ‘ " ‘ ~ ‘ .A M,- n _ _ w
‘I s a’ r‘ h I I’ ‘ H -:l- ' ~ 5 ‘ ~-- A \ ~,i‘1
. ~ ‘ N A v \ ‘p I i
‘ ' - “ Imag Voy ' . -
‘ - | _ ’-\' a 4 r ‘ \-
' ~ . \ w I .k a _
' A I‘ a, ~§ . ~ ‘
v i‘ \I'i ‘A a I ‘ r _‘ )' “ h
‘k
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A‘ -u, ,, . ‘ _ ‘ . .. ..‘ K_.~‘ _\._ . .-* ,,‘ \,
. .\ ~ \ , ‘;. I r <, _, ' H K! .k w ‘ \,..‘e 2.5:._‘ __. _'
i ’ p‘ u’ ’ " ‘ '1 '.1‘ 2,1 1 ,~_ , ‘ 4\_
(“w u I . - . ‘ i, ' .-, v A~ \“M v» k L . u u{ r. J}. ‘_ t ;
. 1 I q, "1 w ‘I I w ‘A’ >. ‘ ‘- k ¢“\ \_h .‘ Ll_§ ,
I’ M v I _ ' n“
' ' ‘ ‘ ~ ‘ k . \.\ _ -.
\- A . \ r J _ n h l x _
V \ . I . V \ _»
' 1 . ~ .
i ' ‘- " ' . ‘ J- k. , '.,
l v. P
: \ i ~ . ~
4 _ I ,
\
\ O’
i ‘ I
‘ ‘-
A:
My I‘
‘r '
f l
V , _ x 1
,, v . I
\;_ ,
"1* “i
“Q _ I
‘ I
, , I’ ‘
4 x I
Q” ' ‘
. ~ ‘ r r‘ '
l“ U
1’, - ‘
‘~ Q
h J ,
‘rd‘
|
\ -‘ . I I
b 1 I ‘
\ ','r‘\
. x
A x \
,' , ‘ -
;
I‘ ~ 4
, _ I
.‘I‘
g I
’ I
1
‘I’
\ v ‘ k
I) , . ‘
. I -
iv
{
.J ‘
f"
v-n. A .
f ,l
I.’ -._l
,l < / -
‘ I
; ,‘ ‘ .
' "E - 'i , .
‘ , 1
'11 ’ I, ,
H- > \
N J I
I ' ‘
I ~ ‘
1""
 
 
N -
\
\ .
l "m -
' ' 0
K ‘1 r _ u I
, y y -
 
 
 
 
 
 
, I ’
I
, .
2, ‘
.2; M I
\ ‘ -
, I ’ '
J
a, I ‘ I
a.
, '\ -
x .
..' ’ .
p ‘ .
~ . \
‘_ w u r V
I I
a’ '
v I
.
,
‘ J
K a»
‘
_ , ' A
. - V _
x
. , ,
4 ' .Il
' ~- I ~:.
| . ‘ .'
_ I
\ , ' it . a
' / I. , .
Q1 \‘
r .
I.
u ' I.
.
\ I l ‘ . ‘l
. ~ g,
i .p
' ‘ " I ' u .1‘
I. i .- ’ \
9* ‘
P I . '
w," --
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘F i‘ J
J > ‘
~ "
a \ .
H‘; - ..
I‘ d
. <
r an‘ r
" I >
“m ‘ p
1 h ' ‘ .
W .. .
t r i > I
\* ¢~ _ “1' .
H: ‘ '
. - H‘ \M , \ I
1h. ‘ . ‘
5L . J 2 ‘1" ‘q’. -.l r H
..‘ ~~ ‘-1 - f ‘41‘ .p
. H4‘ MLMW; N a; , A i‘ x“ u‘, \ I _ ‘I
‘ I ’ n v z' ' ' A‘ I‘ A - Hmgh“. ‘Rx 5”" ‘I ‘ ~' \ i I ‘ ‘ A
I’ ‘ ‘a -‘ ‘—~*'1_..-_-'- ‘J .l v. _
. W a a »|_ 4).,_ 33",‘ 1 I.
, , } * _ ‘ _ \ -. - 1 ,'.
‘ 1 . __ F I r l i
 
 
 
E'\\‘\‘Z“C\~\‘" ‘
‘ \\:\
 
 
 
 
“THIS WAS GAME INDEED.”
- (See p. 20.)
The Life and Strange
Snrprwng Adventures of
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Of York, Mariner, as Related
by Himfelf
BY
DANIEL DEFOE
 
With One Hundred and Twenty Original Iiiiytrations 5y
‘ WALTER PAGET
 
CASSELL AND‘ COMPANY, LIME-FED
LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK 55' JIIELBOURNE
1900
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
 
 
.‘
,4
U6
)IZQ/ 4H" '7Lr[/l{-I?TL4. (L
 
 
// "/21 — “7 1w
I'M‘ - ~l , {.1 ‘a’
.I' I! .‘ ‘I I i 1
I'd/l Fl'llf ‘ i; ‘"r ' M \
m’ I“ ._ -:'-._._ h‘ I‘ ‘h ._ ‘ _ \ \
,5 ..<_=-b4'»-'-4>‘}‘DJK\\IE“ - :1;
413"! --'."-\.\\;\N"'~\i\ E ""r - -
T
‘
{H
I
.f_
l
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
I
I
‘‘r‘
a‘ .
I art *.
PAGE
“THIs WAs GAME INDEED” . . . . . . . . . . . (From‘z'spiece)
HEADPIECE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
“‘ YOU’RE BUT A FRESH-WATER sAILOR’” . . . . . . . . . 5
“WE WALKED ON FOOT TO YARMOUTH" . . . . . . . . . . 8
“sURPRIsED IN THE GREY OF THE MORNING” . . . . . . . . 12
“I PROvED VERY DExTEROUs” . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
“‘IF YOU COME NEAR THE BOAT, I’LL SHOOT YOU’” . . . . . . . I6
“WE FILLED OUR JARS" . . . . . . . . . . .
“I BOUGHT ME A NEGRO sLAvE” . . . . . . . . . . . 25
“ LOOKING OVER THE CHARTS ” . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
“WE HAsTENED OUR DESTRUCTION WITH OUR OWN HANDS”. . . . . . 29
“I WAs NOW LANDED”. . . . . . . . . . . . _ _ 32
“sHOEs THAT WERE NOT FELLOWS” . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3
“I EsPIED A sMALL PIECE OF ROPE”. . . . . . . , _ mfg” 35
“I FELL FAsT AsLEEP” . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
“A CONFUSED sCREAMING AND CRYING”. . . . . . . . . . 40
“THE KID FOLLOWED ME”. . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
“1 WANTED NOTHING THAT HE COULD FETCH ME”. . . . . . . .- 48
“THEY ALL FACED ABOUT UPON THE DOG” . . . . . . . . . 52
“A KIND OF WILD PIGEONs” . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
“I WAs SURPRISED AND PERFEC'I’LY AsTONIsHED" . . . . . '. . . 56
“GRINDING MY TOOLS” . . . . . .' . . . . . . . 57
“I CAUGHT A YOUNG DOLPHIN”. . . . . . . . . . . . 60
“A LARGE TORTOIsE, OR TURTLE” . . . . . . . . . . . 61
“BROILED IT ON THE COALs” . . . . . _ . . . . . . 65
“I WENT UP THE CREEK FIRST” . . . . . . . . . . . 69
v1 ROBINSON CR 0505.
PAGE
“1 SOWED MY GRAIN ” . . , _ _ _ .1
n . . . 72
“1 DESCENDED A LITTLE ON THE SIDE OF THAT DELICIOUS VALLEY” . _ . loface 74
“1 KNOCKED IT DOWN WITH A STICK ” . . . . . . . j . . . 77
“AN INFINITE NUMBER OF FOWLS” . . . . . ~ . . -1 . I. . 80
“1 FIRED AGAIN ” . , _ _ , i _ _ _ _ 34
“1 HANGED THEM IN CHAINS ” . .. . . . . . . . . . . 85
“WHAT ODD, MISSHAPEN, UGLY THINGS I MADE” . . ., . . .. . . 89
“1 RESOLVED TO DIG INTO THE‘ SURFACE OF THE EARTH” . . - 93
“I MADE ME A SUIT OF CLOTHES” . . . . . . . . . . - 97
“1 BROUGHT 1T INTO THE CREEK " . . . . . . A . . . . . 100.
“1 FELL ON MY KNEES” . . . . . .7 105
“HOW LIKE A KING 1 DINED” 1 . . . . . . . . . 109
“1 STOOD LIKE ONE THUNDERSTRUCK”‘ . . . . . A . roface 110.
“I HAD MY COUNTRY SEAT” . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
“MY EVENING DIVERSION” _ _ _ . . . 1 . ‘ . 117,
“A PLACE WHERE THERE HAD BEEN A FIREHMADE”‘ . I . . . . . . 120
“TO SEE IF I COULD OBSERVE ANY BOATS” . . . ‘I . . . . . . 124-
“1 STIRRED 11111 A LITTLE” . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
“A LIGHT OF SOME FIRE UPON THE SHORE” . . . . 13:1
“THE CORPSE OF A DROWNED BOY ” . . . . . . . , a311F371.
“BEGAN TO EXAMINE THE PARTICULARS” , 3 , . . . . . 1%1'40
“DANCING ROUND THE FIRE” . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
“I WAS THEN OBLIGED TO SHOOT” . . . . . . . . . to face 146
“ AT ONE BLOW CUT OFF HIS HEAD” . . . . . .w . . . . _ . 148
“I PRESENTED MY PIECE ” . . . . . . . . _. . . . .1 153
“1 ENTERED INTO A LONG D1SCOURSE” . . . . ._ . . . . . 157
“UPON SEEING THIS BOAT, FRIDAY STOOD- MUSING A GREAT WHILE” . . . _ . 161
“INCH BY INCH UPON GREAT ROLLERS” . . . . . . . . . . 164
“ IN THIS POSTURE WE MARCHED OUT ” . . _. . . . . . . . . ‘168
“I FIRED AGAIN AMONG THE AMAzED WRETCHES” . . . . . . . . 169
"I MADE DIRECTLY TOWARDS THE POOR VICTIM” . . . . . . rofaae 17o
_-“WRINGING MY SWORD OUT OF HIS HAND” . . _. . . . . . . 173
“MY EYE PLAINLY DISCOVERED A SHIP LYING AT AN ANCHOR” . . . . . 177
“‘W_HAT ARE YE, GENTLEMEN?’” . . . . . . . 181
.“THEY BEGGED FOR MERCY” . . . . . .
'“HE MADE ROBINSON HAIL THEM ” .
 
. . 192
“SHOT THE NEW CAPTAIN THROUGH THE HEAD” . . . . . . tofaee 2194
“I SHOWED THEM THE NEW CAPTAIN HANGING AT THE YARD-ARM OF THE SHIP" . 197
“UPON THIS HE PULLS OUT AN OLD POUCH” . . . . . . . . . 201
“TWO OF THE WOLVES FLEW UPON THE GUIDE” . . -. . . . . . 205
‘F‘WHAT, YOU N0 COME FARTHER P3”. ~ . . . . . . . . . . 209
“'I‘HEY CAME ON US WITH A GROWLING KIND OF A NOISE” . . 212
18 a r t if if.
“I FARMED UPON MY OWN LAND” . . . . . . . . . . . 219
“IT WAS ALL T0 N0 PURPOSE” . . 225
“ “THE SHIP BLEW UP” . . 229
“THE MATE BROUGHT SIX MEN WITH HIM” . . . . . . . . . 232
“I FOUND THE POOR MEN ON BOARD ALMOST IN A TUMULT” . . . . . 237
“I CAME FAIR ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF MY ISLAND” . . . . :40
“'‘DO YOU NOT KNOW ME 2"” . to face 242
“BADE THEM STAND OFF ” . . . . . . . . . . . . 245
“ WITH ONE BLOW OF HIS EIST KNOCKED HIM DOWN” . . . . . . . 248
“THEY CAME UP IN A vERY SUBMISSIVE, HUMBLE MANNER”. . . . . . 253
“THEY WERE SURPRISED WITH SEEING A LIGHT” . . . . . . . . 256
“INDIANS JUST COMING ON SHORE” . . . 257
.“ PLACED HIMSELF BETWEEN HIM AND THE SAVAGE” . . .l . . . - . 261
“THREE STRANGE MEN COMING TOWARDS HIM ” . . . . . . . . 264
“DREW LOTS AMONG THEM” . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
“THREE SAYAGES LEFT BEHIND, AND LYING FAST ASLEEP” . . . . . . 272
“ALL THEIR HUTS AND HOUSEHOLD STUFF FLAMING UP TOGETHER” . . . . 277
“CAME RANGING ALONG THE SHORE” . . . . . . . . . . 280
“DESPATCHED THESE POOR CREATURES” . . . . . . . . . . _. 285
“ATE THEIR PROVISIONS YERY THANREULLY” . . . . . . . tofaee 287
“ IN THIS GREAT BEE‘HIVE LIVED THE THREE FAMILIES” . . . . . . 289
“WE MADE A SPLENDID FEAST” . . . . . . . . . . z‘ofac'e 292
“MADE EVERY ONE A LIGHT COAT” . . . . 297
“WE WALKED ON ” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
“MADE ME A VERY LOW BOW” .
"vii mmmw Kmmmm
 
 
“m W513? nk}; wwm m M135; ”‘ a? $ ~ (g I; a, - 1»
M'mm Ami} my; mwww WWE” .. w y g k w
W Wxx xizmwiigim HIM m Mwm; ” U ,8 . ,p a ‘1 ~
W MAW; M‘iii Kwmn mm m ,, m .. 1., ,,. w ,i
“W Immmfm Wmrzl'm 132%” a a » ,,
“I mza mmmmw Wm" gm Mmwmmf” ,, g .g i .»
WZMWK trtmmi WW1 A mximmélzmw m w Q a “I
”*‘mwmm maixm A; Mnm'm; {:1}? mm mwm % v
“ mum; Wma mmwlmw M ,g ,,
“WE mmx»; wmm A M w w. H ‘w w * w
WW WWW mm mwmm warm”
M m: wi‘wwm Tfil WWW IrEIANGKW M a a,
Wiiwmm w W: mm; mm AN‘ zwmwmmmm” M 4, w ,n %
M mam mm mm Iwh’im m A mmwmm 1*’ ,‘K ,, w, ,,, *
“Ti? mfwmm Mm mzw * . Q ,
H mammal, jmw mm; WHZEZZM Wm"; Mmazw W mm”, *9
M mw mm}; mm“ W * W, k V m .b .. M.
“ xmm‘mmm‘ mwmmmm w *zrmmw Wm mm” a, .‘ w
Wm mm: ‘m M12: Wvm llw W Wm Mmmmmv PRWZWKEW a
“A5 w  ; if)? ‘QW‘ MWEZQ 1” g.
E mm mmmw WWW 1m imrm ”‘ W * at Q?
*Wwm W smmm wmmw mm TWFXL "Irma mmzxm M Q
mm’? 'Miigiwléww “m m” Q W ,6 i w “‘ mmmmw m 12% mm mmmw 1*” a * m W ‘k a
 
 
U! I! l #2 w n U W b W ‘I’
 
 
w m,
m rxm
3%
W
w
. 33w
3%
33%
3%
I @533
4m“?
4m
~RU;OE*
EIEEE 13E EEE yEEE 3225? EE EEEy E'I‘ "TEEEE:y EE” E EEEEI {Emily} EITIEEEEE EEE
E'f IIIEI; E12€3E221M% my IEEIIEE IRE/Eng E IETEIEEEEEE 0f EEEEEEE. WEE EEEEIEEI EE
MEIR EE EEI; WEE} EEEEEE by EEEI IEEEIEE EIEI" EEEEIE... IIEEEI
EEEEEWEEEIE EE “VEE‘E IEEEE EEEEEE TEEE EEEEEIEE my EEEEIIEE EEEEE EEIEEIEEE
 
 
 
 
WEEE EEEEEEI HE’EIEEEEE E EEEy EEEL fEEEEEE 2E EIIEE mfmmmf’y End ITEEEE WEEEE WEE
‘EEEEEEE ENE EEIIEE EEEE 'EE
 
 
EEIIEEI IKEIEEEEE .,i/EEEEEEEEE3 EEE. by EI'IE EEEETE EEEEEEEIEE Q'f EEEEIE EE WEE
E'EE EEW EEI'IEEE my". EEH EWWEIWZEE EEEI EEEEE EEE EEIEE UEEEEE; E'EEI EE TEE
EEETEEEIEEE EWEEE EEHEE TEE.
I EEIE EMEE EEEEEEEE, EEE Ef EEITEEE IEEEEEEEEEEEZEEEI EE EE EEEIEEEEE E? fEEE FIEEEIEEE IEEEEEEIE EEEEEEEEEIEEI by ITEEEEEE CEIEEEI LEEEEEEE.
EEEI ET EIEE EEIEIE ‘IIIEEEIEE EEEEIEEE EEE EEEEEEEEE. Imim E'f
my EEEEEEI EEEEEEE EEEE? EEy "EEEEE EEEE my IEEEEE EE EEEEEEE Ed kmww‘ EEEE
WEE ITEEEEEE EEE.
EIEE EI'EEEEI EEE I'Emiiy EEEI EEI; EEEEI EE EEy WEE EIE EE EE
EMEEI EEEE WEE EEEIEETEE IEEEEEEEE : EEE IEEEEE WEE EEEE EEEEEEE. EEE; giEEE
TEE E EEEEEEEEEEE EEEEE EI?‘ mzwmmg; EEE EEEEEEE IFEEEZEEETIIIWDI
EEEEEEIIE EiEd EEEIEEEEI EEE ITEE IEFE ; EEIE WEEM ‘WIILII Z’Emjhimg
EEE EE EEE I“; EEEI my EEEIIEEEEEE IE EEJIE IEE EEE EE EEEEEEEE will. my?
EEE EEEEEEEEEIE. my I’EEITEE, nd, EEIEEEEIEE EEEEEEEEEEE Ef EEEEEEEI EE EE: IZEEEI Em EEEEEEEIEE
Ef :EEEEEE. EEEEIIEE EIEEEEW EE EEE ME Ef EEEEEE EEIFEII WEE EE TEE.
fth‘”, E TEIEE EEE. EEEE. EEEEE TEE EEEIEEE EEEEMEEE EHKMIEZE’ZI EXEEIITTAM
WEEI; 'EE E’EEEEEEE WEE my EEUEEI EEE EEEEEIEE EEEE ‘EIE ETEEEIEEE, EEEEE
EE WEE EEE'EEEE TEE EEE gEEE. EI'IE EEEEEIEIEEEE WEklf’y EEEEEW "EIEE EEE EEEE EIIIE EEEjEEE:
EEEEE; EEE EEEE EEEMIW’EE. EIEEE EEEE EEEEE EEEIIEEIEEE EEEMEEEIEEI 1 'EE {TEE TIEEEIEE
E
 
 
 
 
 
 
my father’s house and my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry, with a life of ease and
pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring,
superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise,
and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road;
that these things were all either too far above me or too far below me ; that mine was
the middle state, or what might. be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found by long experience was the best state in the world, the most suited to, human
happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of this
state by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life which all other people
envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born
to great things, and'wished they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes,
between the mean and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe it, and I should always nd, that the calamities .of life
were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind 3 but that the middle station
had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher
or lower part of mankind 5 nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasiness, either of body or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances on one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean or
insuicient diet on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by the natural‘
consequences of their way of living; that the middle station of life was ‘calculated for
all kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments 3 that peace and plenty were the hand-
maids of a middle fortune ; that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all.
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the
world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of
the head, not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, nor harassed with perplexed
' circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest; nor enraged with
the passion of envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets
of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day’s
experience to know it more sensibly.
After this be pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate manner, not to
play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into miseries which Nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was under no
necessity of seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter
me fairly into the station of life which he had just been recommending to me ; and
that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault
that must hinder it; and that he should have nothing to answer for, having thus
discharged his duty in warning me against measures which he knew would be to my
hurt; in a word, that as he would do very kind things for me, if I would stay and
jl/[Y FA THER’S A D VICE. 3
settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes
as to give me any encouragement to go away; and to close all, he told me I had my
older brother for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to
keep him from going into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he was killed and though he said
.he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me, that if I did
take this foolish Step, God would not bless me, and I should have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery. I
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly prophetic, though I
I Suppose my father did not know it to be So himself--I say, I observed the tears run
down his face very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was
killed ; and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me,
he was so moved that he broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full
he could say no more to me. A
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could be otherwise?
and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father’s desire. But, alas I a few days wore it all off 3 and, in short,
to prevent any of my father’s further importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to
r111’1 quite away from him. However, I did not act quite so hastily neither as the rst
heat of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a time when I thought her a
little more pleasant than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent
Upon seeing» the world, that I Should never settle to anything with resolution enough
I0 go through with it, and my father had better give me his consent than force me to
go without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice
to a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out
my time, but I should certainly run away from my master before my time was out, and
80 to sea ; and if she would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I
Came home again, and did not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise, by a
double diligence, to recover the time that I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion ; she told me she knew it would be to no
Purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject 3 that he knew too well what was
my interest to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt ; and that she
Wondered how I could think of any such thing after the discourse I had had with my
father, and, such kind and tender expressions as She knew my father had used to me 3
nd that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me 5 but I might
depend I should never have their consent to it 3 that for her part, she would not have
80 much hand in my destruction ; and I Should never have it to say that my mother
was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet I heard afterwards that she
1Ft'ported all\the discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a great concern
at it, said to her with a sigh : “ That boy might be happy if he would stay at home;
but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born; I
can give no consent to it.”
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though, in the
meantime, I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and
frequently expostulated with my father and mother about their being so positively
determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one
day at Hull, whither I went casually, and without any purpose of making an elopement
at that time —-but I say, being there, and one of my companions being going by sea to
London in his father’s ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the common
allurement of a seafaring man, that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much assent them word of it ;
but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking God’s blessing, or my
father’s, without any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill
hour, God knows, on the rst of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer’s misfortunes, I believe, began sooner or
continued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber than the
wind began to blow, and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I had
never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terried in mind.
I began now seriously to reect upon what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my father’s house, and abandoning
my duty. All the good counsels’ of my parents, my father’s tears and my mother’s
entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which was not yet
come to the pitch of hardness to ‘which it has come since, reproached me .with the
contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high, though nothing
like what I have seen many times since ; no, nor what I saw a few days after ; but it
was enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and had never known
anything of the matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and that
every time the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more : in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my
foot upon dry land again, I would go directly home to my father, ‘and never set it
into a ship again while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself
into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his
observations about the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortable he had lived
all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or troubles on shore;
and, in short, I resolved that I would, like a true repeating prodigal, go home
to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted, and
indeed some time after; but the next day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer,
and I began to be a little inured to it : however, I was very grave for all that day, being
also a little sea-sick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was ‘quite
over, and a charming ne evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next‘ morning ; and having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but very cheerful,
 
II
 
 
EEIIIEE “WIIJII EEEEIEE EEEE IIIE .EE IIIEI EEE EE EEEEEII EEEI IEEIIII
EEEIEI IIE EE IEE EEEI EE EIEEEEEI IE EE IIIIIE E IIEIE EIIEI.
IEEEIEIIEEE EIIEEIII EEEIIEE _. ‘IIIy EEEIEEEIEE EIIE IIEE EEIIEE
 
 
IIIE EEE IIEIEEEI EEII
‘IEII IIIZI‘W. I E; my gIIIILIII
II EIE EEEE EEIEEE IE
 
 
 
 
 
 
“I ’‘ I’IQIIE III. I?
‘I WEII, IIEIIX’ EIWE IIE, EIEEEIEE IEE EEEE IIIE EIIEEIEIEE I” IIEE IIITI yEE EIE EIIEI III‘
E
QWEIIIEIII y E "EEEE IIZ‘IgIIIIIII, EEEIE’I EEE. IEEI EIEIIE "EIIEE II IIIIII'I’" ‘EEI: E EEEIEI EI
EIEEIW
‘‘ EEE
I
I.
 
I” EEIEI I ‘I IIEEE E IEEEIIIIE EIEEEI.”
WI. EIEEEI, EEE IEE I. EEE I” EEEIIEE IIE; “EIE 'yIIIII EEII IIIEI: E EIEEEII Eh}. E
WWII-“III EI ;; IJIIIII EE I E; E EEEII EEEEEEIE. EECI EE IIIIEIE EEIIIIEE III EEEII E
I'EI WWII} EEII II
I
 
 
$51
 
 
squall of wind as that ; but you’re but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a
bowl of punch, and we’ll forget all that ; d’ye see what charming weather ‘tis now? ”
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all sailors ; the punch
was made, and I was made half drunk with it; and in that one night’s wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reections upon my, past conduct, all my resolutions
for the future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being
over, my fears and apprehensions ‘of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten,
and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises
that I made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reection; and the
serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper, and applying
myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the return of those ts, for so I called
them; and I had, in ve or six days, got as complete a victory over my conscience as
any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to
have another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases generally -it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse; for if I would not take this for a
deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch
among us would confess both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads ; the wind having
been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing
contrary, via, at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great many
ships from Newcastle came into the same‘ Roads, as the common harbour where the
ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long but we should have tided it up the river,
but that the wind blew too fresh, and, after we had lain four or ve days, blew very
hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as good as an harbour, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the
least apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of
the sea; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike our top-masts, and make everything snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had
come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode
with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see terror and
amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant I
in the business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I
could hear him softly to himself say, several times, “ Lord, be merciful to us i we shall
be all lost! we shall be all undone l ” and the like. During these rst hurries I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my
temper. I could ill resume the rst penitence, which I had so apparently trampled
upon, and hardened myself against: I thought ‘the bitterness of death had been past,
T HE S TORM 11v YARMOUTH ROADS. 7‘
and that this would be nothing too,klike the rst ; but when themaster himself came
by me, as I said just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I
got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw; the
Sea ran mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes. When
I could look about, I could see nothing but distress round us; two Ships that rode near
Us, We found, had cut their masts by the board, being deep-laden ; and our men cried
Out that a ship which rode about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to sea, at all adventures,
and that not with a mast standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so much
labouring in the sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close by us, running
away with only their spritsail out before the wind. '
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them
Cut away the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do ; but the boatswain
protesting to him that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented ; and when
they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shook the ship so
much, they were obliged to cut that away also, and make a clear deck.
And one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was but a young
sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a little. But if I can express
at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror
of mind upon account of my former convictions, and the having returned from them to
the resolutions I had wickedly taken at rst, than I was at death itself; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst was not come yet; the storm continued with such fury,
that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had a
good ship, but she was deep-laden, and wallowed in the sea, so that the seamen every
now and then cried out she would founder. It was my advantage, in one respect, that
I did not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was
SO violent that I saw, what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some
Others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment when
the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
Our distresses, one of the men that had been down to see, cried out we had sprung a
leak; another Said there was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called
to the pump. At that word, my heart, as I thought, died within me ; and I fell
backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men
roused me, and told me that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able
t0 pump as another; at which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers who, not
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to Slip and run away to the sea, and would
come near us, ordered to re a gun as a signal of distress. I, .who knew nothing what
they meant, thought the ship had broken, or some dreadful thing happened. In a
Word, I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time when every-
body had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me;
but another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me
lie, thinking I had been dead ; and it was a great while before I came to myself.
 
'
We eerkett
etthi teeee
 
 
,A
t; ed
tt; the teeter htereteieg in theheld, it: were epperertt ti
heegh the eeret hegee te iltttttt it
eettltiii e ,gttt rett iete eey pert, ee teeet
help 5. heel e. Ji’tttt, whet hett ritl it etttt jest eheettt e't' tte
f‘?
 
 
.3 t the ehije
‘t;
 
 
err '
e’
 
 
 
 
ge
t e. heet ettt te hetp
 
 
 
 
 
t‘ tt e teeeeee ere reer “re
rttetretrre” {,e. e}...
 
tr
it
es
 
 
t It was with the ettrteet heeertt the heat eetee eeer ee ;. httt wee hepe
te get ett heertt er ter the heet te lie rte r the hteh eide, tilt et test the meet rewieg
trery heertity, ettti reextttrieg tlrteir tivee te eere eerie, eer reert ,t there retire ever the
eterrt with e. heey te it, erttfl. thee "re tr it eet e greet ‘teegth, erlitiieit they, etter tetteh
leheer eett h tertt, teeth heltil eti, ttt’tt, vwe etttl ettt
iete their heet. It wee tel rte eerpeet. fer there er ee, etter we were irt heet, t
 
 
#53
as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
{'5'
 
 
X
 
 
"tel thee eiee ttttr ettr et'trrt
 
 
- fl/[y OBSTJNACY. 9
think of reaching to their own ship ; so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her
In towards shore as much as we .could; and our master promised them that if the
boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good to their master : so partly-rowing.
and partly driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the shore -
almost as far as Winterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we saw her
sink, and then I understood for the rst time what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me
she was sinking; for from the moment that they rather put me into the boat, than
that I might be said to go in, my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with
tright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar to bring the
boat near the shore, we could see (when, our boat mounting the waves, we were
able to see the shore) a great many people running along the strand, to assist us
when we should come near ; but we made but slow way towards the shore ; nor were
we able to reach the shore till, being past the lighthouseiat Winterton, the shore
falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much difficulty, got all safe on
shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us’ good
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships, and had money given us
sufficient to carry us either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone home, I had
been happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Slaviour’s parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any assurances that I was not
drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could resist ; and
though I had several times loud calls from my reason, and my more composed
judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to call this,
nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be the
instruments of our own destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable
misery attending, and which it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me
forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired‘ thoughts, and
against two such visible obstructions as I had met with in my rst attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the master’s son,
was now less forward than I. The rst time he spoke to me after we were at
Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for we were~ separated in the town to
several quarters-I say, the rst time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered;
and looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did, and
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order
to go farther abroad : his father turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone,
“Young man,” says he, “you ought never to go to sea any more ; you ought to take
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man.” “Why,
sir,” said I, “will you go to sea no more?” “ That is another case,” said he ; “ it is
my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see
what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps
this has all befallen us on your account, like jonahin the ship of Tarshish. Pray,”
continues he, “ what are you ; and on what account 3‘did you go to sea?” Upon that
I told him some of my story ; at the end of which he burst out into a strange kind of
passion: “What had I done,” says he, “that such an unhappy wretch should come
into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a
thousand pounds.” This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which were
yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have authority to
go. However, he afterwards ‘talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to
my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; telling me I might see a visible hand
of Heaven against me. “And, young man,” said he, “depend upon it, if you do not
go back, wherever you_ go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappoint-
ments, till your father’s words are fullled upon you.”
We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no more ; which
way he went I know not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with myself
what course of life I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts;
and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the neighbours,
and should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody
else; from whence I have often since observed how incongruous and irrational the
common temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed
to repent ; not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools,
but are ashamed of the returning which only can make them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what measures to
take, and ,what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going
home ; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore
off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a return wore off with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me rst away from my father’s house, which
hurried me into the wild and undigested notion of raising my fortune; and‘ that
impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good advice,
and to the entreaties and even the commands of my father—J say, the same influence,
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call
it, a voyage to Guinea.* ' i
"‘ Graham—A district of that part of the West Coast of Africa where the land runs nearly due
east and west. The six countries into which it is divided are known to sailors under the names
of Sierra Leone, Grain Coast, Ivory Coast, Gold Coast, Slave Coast, and Benin.
A VOYAGE T0 GUINEA. II
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not ship myself as a
sailor; when, though I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at
the same time I should have learnt the duty and office of a foremast man, and in time
might. have qualied myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for-a master. But as it
Was always my fate to choose for the worst, so I did here ; for having money in my
pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board in the habit of a
gentleman ; and so I neither had any business in the ship nor learnt to do any.
It was my lot rst of all to fall into pretty good company in London, which does
not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as I then was ; the devil
generally not omitting to lay some Snare for them very early; but it was not so with
me. I rst got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea ; and who, having had very good success there, was resolved to go again ; this
Captain taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage
with him, I should be at no expense ; I should be his messmate and his companion;
and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the advantage of it that the
trade would admit ; and perhaps I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship with this captain, who
Was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I
increased very considerably; for I carried about £40 in such toys and tries as the
Captain directed nie to buy. This £40 I had mustered together by the assistance of
Some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or
at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my rst adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all my adventures, and
which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under Whom also I
got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned
how to keep an account of the ship’s course, take an observation, and, in short, to
understand some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as he
took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made
me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home ve pounds nine ounces of
gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost
£300; and this lled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed
my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes-too ; particularly, that I was Con-
tinually Sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate;
Our principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fteen degrees north,
even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great misfortune,
dying soon 'after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked
. 1n the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got
the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry quite £100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had £200 left
which I had lodged with my friend’s widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
 
M hil’i’ttt
 
 
it re re ritetrr
terrihle reiethrtett ‘ie thie exert eertree teeerrte lijtitt'tttty er tether titetttee theee iehte ertrl. the Afrieee
ehere, eererieett hr the the reerhierrj he e [eerieh rerer ef ehe eheee te eith eh th eeit e eetthi their ere treerii. etee retteh eerreee eer
yert teetrid etjtteeti, er ettt er eetty, trir here eieer; htrt tirtrjlpitr Efltlt’ttttft
gehreti. retiree he, rte eeeht erteiety er ere err trith he he e. fete titettre, trtetterett te
ettr ehitr heriett ttretre ghee, the regee eighteee. .hhettt three he the
rtftertteee I he eertte h with he, err htiegiegwte, hy jttet eth etttt ettt etrerter,
ef ethwert etrt etertt ee he htteetierfl, tee hretrght eight eif eer ghee te here he
thet ehte, eert treeretl ht e. hreerleitie etreh hire, whieh reetile hire eheer eiif egfeirr, etiter
rettrreirrte‘ her fth, ehtt pettrieg itt e hie eetelt eh et freer heer tree htrrtttrett thee
ehieh he hetft err heetrl. etteeer, ere heti rtet thee teeehetl, ell eet lreettihg
eteeet eteel te egeht, etttt we te eereetree het htyhtg tire err
heertt eeet thee ertert ettr ether etterter, eetererit eiety thee trjrerr eer rteehe,
tehe hrtttreeiietety tett te ettttirtg eetl heeitteg the tree elierl, there
with ereeti ehet, hrtifltrihee, treerterteheete, ettti eeehtlihe, rttttl eteerett etrr tieeh ef there
three. liteeeeet, te eet .ert thhr teeleeehefty pert et ettt etety, ettr rilieehtett, three ef hitterfl, ehtl. tree We ehligeri te ,
erttl were eerrieti prieehete irtte revert heteegie te the h’teete.
I heti there "were her rte et freer ll. errtltteifterrdertt her eertiee err eeerttty tie the thrttterer’e eettrt, the reet et ettt thee were, het tree
he the eetrteie ef the rerer rte eretter erite, ertrjl yetteg
thet wee thie, View titer ehirt reehhtg her
 
 
a‘,
‘a
 
 
w
1' Emaiwmm ‘iziil; :mmmmm M iiiiwili‘fmgtmwj {mm
m MZW‘JQ i, Wmfmrz m mmmi ” and WW Imiykmi; Kim; I I
4" 1
and k’aizimyl mm 2%; My %
%
“ W
m XWWWEEQXW; m a; 41>} j
“W11 WW ;: iiizaatimrm m mm M“? “if, @2» 3mg 1m mmmm MM WWW
m 7£T€ZM€ZFWZZ m i; whiitm ll Mmm Wm Kiwi/I'm? w a:rgmmmmy 3
1,,
WW; WiLBYiFW {my mm m M H mm
Mix;
mm Wzim mmdmm
‘kw z/iwwihizfrzhimmvamm ‘iéjliiw mm; ?; Wig, Emi‘ :1 Kgé'fifieiéjir m ‘£11m mfaim 1 Wm m tihmmghy
1 iiwiflfif m {32? mm Wiwjgz
m m E‘Lazmam m" rmmm M21431 ‘m Mmm m E
in mm; M53 WWW ‘tzlk ma? iaim My Em W m‘l m mm iiilégfl‘k If;
m g‘tmmir-a 11'
 
 
Wiwi
4:15;} Wi?
,, ,miéwvm mm; ii: Wmwkji WIWEZ‘
tim m m w W whim 2% Wmmh W WWmH-WW XWWMWWW; Md
that; Mr} @Mmlzhii Mv Em 1th is; if}? 27mm amm away;
Em wiimgzm Wi’f’f m s‘emzia, Raft W2 mm 3&1} mm m Emma; iiimmm dag}
Hmzz: mmmfmm ail, @mm Mgwim My; immm 2; Mid WWW 1m WWW WWW WW”
{iagzmiarzawgrii m m m mm” m Xmk, Mm Kim mm
I; mzhmgg 11m: my Mm and W%”1ZMZ rmmmiwi 1" might WW m
Hi; m m 1M 3%? W23»)? mm 2W1 Hm ‘lil’li’gimmimif in it mmmmg m mmkm m :zeammwmTit‘imn M ii miziaimz ; {m 1 had mtwdy m mmmmyimm it lm mm
Wmlid mfmmik with mi? 5; mm fmmmmzxwij my Li§ln§§ww M» w m?" émmymm wm
but ; m ahm; {m MWZ? imugh Mum jgjmmtzzwxii mwww with Kim imwimtimm
1M5: ii'miimwmgimééi EPWWWM m Wimmé; it if} Wmmimm
m? zziiimw: mm WQW, m WE m,m:xhm’xrmamim imf; mm film/“K! @571
M Wm; rm mmm ll?” my Mmmy in m Wwmm Mug
$211!: WWW: 12mm mmzz “WWW
miw amt i, émw “#”%%W% m‘; if
hiii‘fy m Wmqm; @I'fi‘f 1111mm g; %
mm miwmfkzmwqw wmm m 2mm 113%;
Miami“, W W
gm? m MW
mm lzrxnmm mm W mm: mm
'%lyim Wtmd; win ;: 2% MWWQ mm xmx and; 23% WWW
with Mm UT} WW HM’; 'iiwm
’W mmiw %i2i@2m zfwzimfm mm
5;:miimz dmmmmm in {:maiiim
imwmmmizh mm mam 1m
‘Wmiaii mm Wm mm» WW
M Mmximm mm w: jmiimmim l’ljmmgm% gig; Mm? m
éizmgzh mm M 163% my E'aikfw»
h: mm mm? Hmt
with, him m tmw
mwmmgw mm 1%: iaiazh mm
mmgh Wéi? mm Em 3k ff xiim hmy Wi“ mag w WW” WWW l'mwWm“
 
 
f’:
{5%
( a
 
it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we laboured all day, and all the
next night ; and when the morning came, we found we had pulled out to sea instead
of pulling in for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from the land.
However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour, and some danger;
for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning ; but particularly we were all
very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of himself
for the future ; and having lying by him the long-boat of our English ship which he
had taken, he resolved he would not go a-shing any more without a compass and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that of
a barge, with a place to stand'behind it to steer, and haul home the main-sheet ; and
room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we
call a shoulder-of-mutton sail ; and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which
lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a
table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he
thought t to drink ; and particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-shing; and as I was most dexterous to
catch sh for him, he never went without me. It happened that he had appointed
to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for sh, with two or three Moors ‘of
some distinction in that place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had
therefore sent on board the boat over-night a larger store of provisions than usual;
and had ordered me to get ready three fusils* with powder and shot, which were on
board his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling as well as shing.
I got all things ready as he had directed; and waited the next morning with
the boat washed clean, her ancient i‘ and pendants out, and everything to accommo~
date his guests; when by-and-by my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put off going, from some business that fell out, and ordered me, with
the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some sh; for
that his friends were to sup at his house ; he commanded me, too, that as soon as I had
got some sh, I should bring it home to his house : all which I prepared to do.
This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, for, now
I found I was likely to have a little ship at my command ; and my master being gone,
I prepared to furnish myself, not for shing business, but for a voyage; though I knew i
not, neither did‘ I so-much as consider, whither I would steer; for anywhere to get
out of that place was my desire.
My rst contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to get something
for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our
patron’s bread. He said, that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or
biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron’s case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make, were taken out of
it Fm'z'l, a French word, meaning a light musket or relock.
1- Ancz'ent, the old word, derived from the French enrezlgm, for a flag, or the man who carries it.
My ESCAPE. I 5
Some English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the. Moor was on
shore, as if they had been there before for our master. I conveyed also a great lump of
beeswax into the boat, which weighed about half an hundredweight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which were of great use to
118 afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
Which, he innocently came into also: his name was Ismael, which they call Muley,
01‘ Moely; so I called to him : “ Moely,” said I, “ our patron’s guns are all on board-
the boat; can you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
a1Cflmies” (a fowl like our curlews) “ for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunn'er’s
stOres in the ship.” “Yes,” says he, “ I’ll bring some:” accordingly, he brought a
great leather pouch, which held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more ;
a11d another with Shot, that had ve or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat. At the same time, I had found some powder of my master's in the great _
Cabin, with which I lled one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty,
Pouring what was in it into another; and thus furnished with everything needful, we
sailed out of the port to sh. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew
Who we were, and took no notice of us; and We were not above a mile out of the
P0"; before we hauled in our sail, and sat us down to sh. The wind blew from the
N -N.E., which was contrary to my desire ; for ‘had it blown southerly Ihad been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my
resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place‘
Where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had shed some time and caught nothing, for when I had sh on my
hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see them, I said‘ to the Moor,
“This will not do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand farther off.”
He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in the head of the boat, set the sails ; and,
as I had the helm, I ran the boat out near a league farther, and then brought her to
as if I would sh; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the
Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something behind him, I took him by
surprise with my- arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
_ e rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and Called to me, begged to be taken
1“, telling me he would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind ; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it
at him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do
im none: “ But,” said I, “you swim Well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
Calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
Come near the boat, I’ll ‘shoot you through the head, for I. am resolved to have my
liberty.” So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt
but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent Swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have drowned
the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. When he was gone, I turned to the
boy: \Yhom they called Xury, and said to him, “ Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I’ll
make you a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me" (that is,
\
f
mm
 
 
 
 
 
 
/WYM“§§UW5WLM 7%
 
 
w  *7
iawzm 721W EN/Lammmwt ‘ by Kimf‘h M 1 WW K mm” W“ M7 Km 125% mm}?
my
all in my 2m immmmtm m, wt; jzfmimfmw Mrm m5?
W mm 2% mm’, Mm Mm WWW m
 
 
 
 
 
 
mmmi n
% Wm
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
xiiimm‘iy m1
m
 
 
A MM: tmmw mamm { m mmm mmmimxiz":
m wiiipmmi ELK} {Jim} :1 f“ £91?“ W '
WM, hawk
‘2%
WWW iiiwmmd
14"
 
 
if}, may mm mmt mm
“m Wmd mm: "Tl , I m. {m
rim 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
@immz, WWW '~ a; - u; , " *2; W‘M mm m
 
 
m“ m'm W ‘311
rm M
3“ WWW
 
 
 
 
r‘
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course, and steered
directly south and by east, bending my course a little towards the east, that I might
keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet
sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at three o’clock in the afternoon,
when I rst made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fty miles
south of Sallee: quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful apprehensions
I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an
anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that manner ve days ; and then,
the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were
in chase of me, they also would 'now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast,
and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what nor where;
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what river. I neither saw nor
desired to see any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim- on shore as soon as it’ was dark,
and discover the country; but as. soon as it wits quite dark, we heard such dreadful
noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go
on shore till day. “Well, Xury,” said I, “then I wonit ; but it may be we may
see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those ilions." “Then we give them
the shoot-gun,” says Xury, laughing, “make them run wey.” Such English Xury
spoke by conversing among us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our patron’s case of bottles) to cheer him up.
After all, \Xury’s advice was good, and I took it: ‘we dropped our little anchor,
and lay still all night: I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we
saw vast great creatures. (we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves
for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so ‘was I too; but we were both more.
frighted when we heard one mighty creature come swimming towards our boat; we
. could not see him, but we might hear him by-his blowing to be a monstrous, huge,
and‘furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know;
but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. “ N 0,” says I, “ Xury,
we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and go to sea ; they cannot follow us far.”
I had no sooner said so but I perceived the creature, whatever it was, within two
‘oars’ length, which something surprised me; however, I immediately stepped to the
cabin-door, and taking up my gun, red at him ; upon which he immediately turned
about, and swam towards the shore again. . 1
But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises and hideous cries and howlings
that were raised, as well upon the 'edge of the shore as higher within the country,
upon the noise or report of a gun, a thing I have some reason to believe those
creatures had never heard before. This convinced‘ me that there was no going on
IVE V ENTUII’E ON 5 H0185. I 9
shore for us in the night upon that coast; and how to venture on shore in the day was
' another question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers; at least we were
equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, We were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for water,
for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when or where to get it was the point. Xury
Said, if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would nd if there was
any water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he would go? Why I should not
go, and he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much affection, that made
me love him ever after. Says he, “ 1f wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey.”
“ Well, Xury,” said I, “ we will both go, and if the wild mans come, we will kill ‘them,
they shall eat neither of us.” So I gave Xury a piece of rush-bread to eat, and a drum
Out of our‘ patron’s Case of bottles which I mentioned before ; and we hauled the boat
' In as near the shore as we thought was proper, and waded on shore, carrying nothing
but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of canoes with
Savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it, and by-and-by I Saw him come running towards me. I thought he was
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some Wild -beast, and I ran forward towards
him to help him ; but when I came nearer to him; I saw something hanging over his
Shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a bare, but different in colour,
and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but
the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water, and
Seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water, fora little
higher up the creek where we were, we found the water fresh when the tide was out,
which flows but a little way up ; so we lled our jars, and feasted on the bare we had
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having Seen no footsteps of any human creature
in that part of the country.
I As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well that the Islands of
the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But
as I had no instruments to take‘ an observation to know what latitude we were in, and
did not exactly know, or at least not remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them ; otherwise I might
now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope was that if I stood along
this coast till I came to that part Where the English traded, I should nd some of their
Vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was must be that country
which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco’s doininions and the negroes, lies waste
‘and uninhabited, except by Wild beasts ; the negroeshaving abandoned it, and gone
l'arther south, for fear of the Moors ; and the Moors not thinking it Worth inhabiting,
bl’ reason of its barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodigious
' numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious Creatures which harbour there ; so
that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
\
I
thousand men at a time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon this
coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but
howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe, being the
high top of the mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries ; and had a great mind to venture
out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having failed twice, I was forced in again by
contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to-
pursue my rst design, and keep along the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had left this place -,
and once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little
point of land, which was pretty high ; and the tide beginning to ow, we lay still to go
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls
softly to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore ; “ for,” says he,
“look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep.” I
looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible-
great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the bill that
hung as it were a little over him. “Xury,” says I, “you shall go on shore and kill
him.” Xury looked frighted, and said, “Me kill! he eat me at one mouth,” one
mouthful he meant. However, I- said no more to the boy, but bade him be still, and '
took our biggest gun, which was alniost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge
of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with two
bullets; and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with ve smaller bullets.
I took the best_aim I could with the rst piece to have shot him in the head, but he
lay so, with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the
knee, and broke the bone. He started up growling at rst, but nding his leg broke,
fell down again; and then got up upon three legs, and gave the mostliideous roar
that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not- hit him on the head;
however, I took up the second piece immediately, and though he began to move off,
*re'd again, and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop; and
making but little noise, he lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore. “Well, go,” said I ; so the boy jumped into the water,
and taking the little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the head
again, which despatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; and I was very sorry to lose
three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would have some of him 3 so he comes on board, and asked
me to give him the hatchet. “For what, Xury?” said I. “Me cut off his head,”
said he. However, Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut‘ off a foot, and brought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might, one way or other,
he of some value to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him, but Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very
ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us up both the whole day, but at last we got off the
' TRAFFIC H/[TH THE NEGROES. ‘21.
hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in
two days’ time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon. '
After this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days,
living very sparingly on our provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no
oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was
‘to make the River Gambia or Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de
Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there
among the negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the
coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those islands ;
and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have said, I began
to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw
people stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were quite
black, and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, “ No go, no go.” However, I hauled
in nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they ran along the shore by _
me a good way : I observed they had no weapons in their hands, eiicept one, who had
a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they could throw them a
great way with good aim : so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs as
' well as I could ; and particularly made signs for something to eat : they beckoned to
me to stop my boat, and they'would fetch me some meat. Upon this, I lowered the
top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in less than
half an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry esh and some corn,
such as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what the one or the
other was: however, we were willing to accept it, but how'to come at it was our next
dispute, for I would not venture on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us :
_but they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid .it down,
and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came close
to us again. . .
We ,made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them amends ; but
an opportunity offered that very,instant to oblige them wonderfully : for while we were
lying on the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any
more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange: but I believe it was the
latter; because, in the rst place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the
night ; and, in the second place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not'y from them, but the rest did ;
however, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, they‘ did not offer to fall upon
any of the negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they
had come for their diversion: at last one of them began to come nearer our boat than
at rst’ I expected ; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with
I
all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As soon as he came
fairly within my- reach, I red, and shot him directly in the head: immediately be
sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was '
struggling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately made to the shore; but
= between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died
just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at the noise
and re of my gun ; some of them were ready even to die for fear, and fell down as
dead with the very terror. ' Buti‘when they saw the creature dead, and sunk into the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart and came
to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I found him by his blood staining
the water; and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the negroes
to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard,
spotted, and ne to an admirable degree; and the negroes held up their hands lvith
admiration, to think what it was I killed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the ash of re and the noise of the gun, swam to
the shore, and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came ; nor could I
at that distance know what it was. I found quickly the negroes were for eating the
esh of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take it, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him; and though they had no knife, yet, with a
sharpened piece of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and much more readily
than we would have done with a knife. They offered me some of the esh, which I
declined, making as’ if I would give it them; but made signs for the skin, which they
gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their provision, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted; Then I made signs to them for some
water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning its bottom upward, to show that it
was empty, and that! I wanted to have it lled. ' They called immediately to some of
their friends, and there came two women, and brought ‘a great vessel made of earth,
and burnt, as I suppose, in thesun; this they set down for me, as before, and I sent
Xury on shore with my jars and lled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men. ‘I
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and leaving
my friendly negroes, I made’ forward for about eleven days more, without offering to
go near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea, at about the
distance of four or ve leagues before me; and the sea being very calm, I kept a large -
ofng to make this point. At length, doubling the point at about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then .I concluded, as it was 7
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the islands called, from
thence, Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best do ; for if I should be taken with a fresh gale of wind, I
' might neither reach one nor other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin, and sat me down,
Xury having the helm ; when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, “ Master, master, a ship
I P101020 UP BY .4 PORTUG UESE Skill). 2 3
with a sail l ” and the foolish boy was frighted out of his -wits, thinking it must needs
be some of his master’s ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far
enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only
the ship, but that it was a Portuguese ship ;, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast '
of Guinea, for negroes. But, when I observed the course she steered, I was soon
convinced they were bound some - other way, and did not design to go any nearer the
shore : upon which I stretched out to the sea as much as I could, resolving to speak
with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in their way,
but that theyI would be gone by before I could make any signal to them 3 but after I
had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help
of their perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which they supposed
must belong to some ship that was lost ; so they shortened sail to let me "come up. I
was encouraged with this, and as I had my patronls ancient on board, I made a waft
of it to them for a signal of distress, and red a gun, both of which they saw ; for they
told me they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals
they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me ; and in about three hours’ time I came
up with them.
They asked me what was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in French, but I
understood none of them ; but at last a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me ;
and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that had made my escape out
of slavery from the Moors at Sallee; they then bade me come on board, and very
kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which anyone will believe, that I was thus
.delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I
was in ;, and I immediately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for
my deliverance ; but he generously told me, he would take‘ nothing from me, but that
all I had should be delivered safe to me, when I came to the Brazils. “ For,” says he,
“I have saved your life on no other terms than as I would be glad to be saved myself;
and it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides,” said be, “when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from your own
Country, if I should take from you what you have, you will be starved there, and then
I only take away that life I have given. No, no,” says he ; “Seignor Inglese ” (Mr.
. Englishman), “I will carry you thither in charity, and these things will help you to
buy your subsistence there, and your passage home again.”
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the performance to a tittle';
for he ordered the seamen that none should offer to touch anything I had : then he
took everything into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory 'of them,
that I might have them, even to my three earthen jars. , '
As to my boat, it was a very good one ; and that he saw, and told me, he would
buy it of me for the ship’s use 5 and asked me what I would have for it. I told him,
he had been so generous to me in everything, that I could not offer to make any price
of the boat, but left it entirely to him : upon which, he told me, he would give me a
'note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil ; and when it came
there, if anyone offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty
pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was 10th to take ; not that I was
unwilling to let the captain have him, but ‘I was very 10th to sell the poor boy’s liberty,
who had assisted me so aithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let him know
my reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this medium, that he would give the
boy an obligation to set him free in ten‘years, if he turned Christian : upon this, and
Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in the Bay de Todos los
Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was once more '
delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with
myself I was to consider.'_ . _
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough remember: he
would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard’s
skin, and forty for the lion’s skin, which I had in my boat, and caused everything I
had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and what I was willing to sell, he
bought of me : such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of ‘
beeswax, for I had made candles of the rest: in a'word, I made about two hundred
and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this stock, I went on shore in the
Brazils' ‘ ' I
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a good, honest
man, like himself, who had an z'egemb, as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar- '
house), I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the
manner of their planting and making of sugar ; and seeing how well the planters lived,
and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I
would turn planter among them; resolving, in the meantime, to nd out some way to
get my money, which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,‘ getting
a kind of letter of naturalisation, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settlement ; such a one
as might be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a ‘Portuguese, of Lisbon, but born of English parents, whose
name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call him neighbour,
because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably together. My
stock was but low, as well as his ; and we rather planted for food than anything else‘,
for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our land began ‘to come
into order; so that the third year, we planted some tobacco, and made each of us a
large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the year to come 3 but we both
wanted help; and‘ now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in parting with
my boy Xury. ' I
But, alas I for me to do wrong that never did right, was ‘no great wonder. I had
no remedy but to go on : I had got into employment quite remote to my genius and
directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for ' which I forsook my father’s house,
and broke through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into [the very middle station,
or upper degree of low life, which my father advised me to before, and which, if I
resolved to go on with, I might as well have stayed at home, and never fatigued myself
 
in titt: tttttlti, at ttttvtt tlttttt: and l tttl titfttttt ttt ta tittyttttt, a‘ ll‘ ttttttlti ltttttt titttttt
this in tilttglantl, atttttttg ttty at have tttttttt five tltttttttttttt ttttitttt tttt ttt tie
it tttttttttgf tiftttttttttt and j. ,, itt tit ‘tt’tirttttt ', atttl ttt ttttit'lt tittttttttt at tttttttt ttt
ltttttt titttttt arty ptttt of ttttlttit‘ll, that had the ltatt ltttttwltttlgtt at the.”
in this ttttttttt ttttttti ttit itittfti” ttlittfttt ttty trtttttlititttt with the tttttt It it ft litttt ttttttt tttttil tittttt tttit gitijtttttt”, tttllt wttrlt ttt dtttttt
litttt tlttt lttltttttt my
hands g, and I ttt ‘l litttti tttatt
tttttt ttptttt tittr
ttttlttttt itltttttt, that tttjite
hotly iititttttrltl
tttttl ttw tltttttltt all tt’ttttt
tetlii t it , y
tittttttittttt their ptttttttttt t'rtttta
tiitittttt with tltttt
titttttt ttttttttt t
htttt tttt ti:
tittt; tit til? I it *tttttt titty " "
that ttttly ttttttttttgt tittt
ttt tilt ‘ttitttttlttt, tittttttiti
'
 
 
 
 
tttthtttty to ttttttttttttt tt'itl
 
 
 
 
“it ftii, at?’
kw
 
 
t
 
 
 
 
t t:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tfl tit
 
 
httttility tittttitt tttt ytit'tttt ttttti tt l ttttt, in m titty ttttttttttttttt for
I tzttttjtiittg tttt tgtlttttttttttttt
tttgl, tt tttt tilt tltip ttittttitttttl tlt titttttitjli ltttt tttttl ptttirtgf ltttt tttityttgtt,
tit wit :tt, ttttlittg hittt ttlitttt lfttttt lttit Ltitt'ttiit'tt‘t, ltt: ma tttit ftttttttlty and tittttttt r, tttt
ftltt‘ lttt trtttltrtt ttttt), “ it you will vittt ttttt lttttttttt, tttitl prttttttttttitttt ttt tttttn ttft ttt with ttttfltttt ttjt tlittt tttrtttttt who at yttttt tttttrttty itt tttttt, ttjt t tttl
 
 
 
 
t stilt A r
. ,
 
 
s“
 
 
ti ttt itt
til
 
 
if“
 
 
 
 
ttt iltittlttttt, ttjt t;
t
l tiitttttt, in ttttttlt thit t: tttttty, it wit ytttt tlttt prtttltttttt ttf tltttttt, tfttttt ttitltttg,
2e .-
ROBINSON CBLtsOB.
my return ; but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half
your stock, and let the hazard be run for the rst; so that, if it come safe, you may
order the rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply.” ,
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could not but be
convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to
the gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese .
captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English-captain’s widow a full account of all my adventures, my
slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with all other necessary directions
for my supply; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by
some of the English’ merchants there, to send over not the order only, but a full
account of my story, to a merchant at London, who represented it effectually to her ;
whereupon she not only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket sent 'the_
Portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in English goods, such as
the captain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them all safe to me to the Brazils ; among which, without my direction (for I was too
young in my business to think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of
tools, iron work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which were of great use
to me. I
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was surprised with the
joy of it; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out the ve pounds, which my
friend had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant,
under bond for six years’ service, and would not accept of any consideration, except _a
little tobacco, which I would have ‘him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all ; for my goods being 'all English manufacture, such as cloth,
stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell them at a very great advantage; so that I may say I had more than
four times the value of my rst cargo, and was now innitely beyond my poor
neighbour—I mean in the advancement of my plantation; for the rst thing I did,
I bought me a negro slave and an European servant also: I mean another besides that
which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But ‘as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest_
adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with great success in my
plantation: I raised fty great rolls of tobacco on my own- ground, more than I
had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours ; and these fty rolls, being each
of above a hundredweight, were well cured, and laid by against the return of the eet '
from Lisbon. And now increasing in business and wealth, my head began to be full
of projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of
the best heads in business. Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father so earnestly
[W Y PLANTATION IN THE 818.4 Z/LS. 2 7
I recommended a quiet, retired life, and which he had so sensibly described the middle
- Station of life‘ to be full of; but other things attended me, and I was still to be the
wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly, to increase my fault, and double
the reections upon myself, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make,
all these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish
inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the
Clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects and
those measures of life which nature and Providence concurred to present me with, and
‘ to make my duty. -
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I could not be
Content now, but I must go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of
risirlg faster than the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I cast myself down again
into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be.
c0r1sistent with life, and a state of health in the world.
To come then by just degrees to the particulars of this part of my story:--You
may suppose that having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
t.hrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the language,
but had contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters,ias well as
among the merchants at’ St. Salvadore, which was our port ; and that, in my discourse
2imong them, I had frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast
of Guinea, the manner of trading with the negroes there, and how easy it. was to
Purchase upon the coast for trifles—such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits
of glass, and the like—not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants’ teeth, 810., but.
negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers. ,
They listened always very attentively to my discourses on'these heads, but especially
to that part which related to' the buying negroes ; which was a trade, at that time, not
only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been carried. on by the Assiento,
01‘ permission, of the King of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock ;
' 50 that few negroes were brought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company one day with some merchants and planters of. my
aCquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them came to me the
next, morning, and told me they had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
coursed of with them the last night, and they came to make a_ secret proposal to me ;
and, after enjoining me secresy,'they told me that they had a mind to t out a ship to
go 120 Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for
INothing so much as ‘servants; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on,
because they could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home, so they desired
to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the question was,‘ whether I would go
their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea;
afld they offered me that I should have my equal share of the negroes, without pro-
VIding any part of the stock. , i
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been made to anyone that
i
e 7
e
 
 
heel net heel ttterieee ertri trieetetiee ef hie ritwe t'e t r, whieh tree in e
ef eeeieg re he hit ' eert with e r“
 
 
, I err her fer
re rte lprttt
 
 
thir trey r; , tee, tr err eeti errtehlieheri, eeti literjt t V t
,t,
re, the three er trrttr there, tittrti tie
g, .
he
we
' e re re had
hr herrilreti, preterit
freer trleghte I; eer
in that there,
with that iittle
” id
ritt e e , e e e, '
ef
heierr trerth th
eh rip
“ Jr
 
 
W
 
 
e er
itltttt“tlttjtttttttttt tee
 
 
t
,. trite errti th he
e er trite
itit thieh ei
eeeh
 
 
t
t ’ he etitwer,
thee i trite
t? ,,
t
 
rt
ii
 
 
eretrlri he...
'
thy tttrtetetiee in. re
tit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eeteretl iete write tired eereeeete, re rte i teeter
tit if“); e ef the it ' Qtttthlttt ie. hi my rierth, teehie the petite
' gt re ti re eeirereel heir, titer ehl "j? in hire
trill. ;, errethei'l ext“ prerhree 1 the.
 
 
 
 
. qr te h
eltrert, ail ti‘f'i
ttetiee. '‘
l
 
 
te tip my
ere rey ewe ieter " t,
I, ~. deee, tttttl .eet re h ,r r , , heri
erte hirer freer ee presterriers rte at all; the prehehie
r,
M
 
 
Y‘
 
 
3%
M
58%
5::
eerl reert .1.’ tr jetlgteeet trh
t ertttiet erer tr
 
 
tithe
,
 
 
attaa, tttttjl gaaa ttpaa ta aaa, attaatiatl with all i
ttattiattta ltatartla, aatltitt at tlt ttiaaatta ltatl ta at partittalat tttiaiatttiaaa
tti ;
 
 
 
tttatta at 'iaitirtg
 
 
w
llat "l ltattiati at , aatl lliit’ttlli" tlia till
, l
,7 . ii l at at iaaay thati tag;
taaatat 7;, at: tlit: l’ ,, p '
t; ’ ‘
attt, attti tita tat; liaialtatil, all
liiy agtaaiaattt, lay my ijiattaara ia taya l waat tat ljiaartl la att
tittr lit y that l
 
 
tail it
ill
agaia, tlia ttt at liaptaailaat, it ljiaiajtf tlta aataa at
‘til,
 
 
 
 
a artfl
 
 
frat it ta tlia talial ta t
aatiiatity
ttaat " it my atttl faa ;: .
illttt t alaifiat art it tlittltatl aatl taiatttt
taaa, tit
, It; at
 
ti
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
l ta aty atta itttaraatr
at it lit I
tilltlil ttata lit
atit titta itititt aiitittt
 
 
, i , y " git ti
, , art at” aattlttrtit latitti
i
i tail, ,, at
 
 
 
 
, ttltatt
t
l
tit: Wi'tiltfiil, it tttttfllltt, watt tlia J ” i l t .
tittattt
if tittttt,
attt til” tittt '
til t1‘,
 
 
Till
 
 
lttiii ,
, laatl, t "
‘,jltttlt;
 
 
it it til
lat” i it
 
 
1 1. ll
1a
a: : ~"
a
it
ati
 
 
 
lit
‘
ta, at l;
l
E‘
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“t
w
taa iii aliaiittt tiila
 
 
 
 
 
Q‘
 
 
ttltatt a titiltrttt tatttatitt, t” it attlttaaa, at trial
 
 
a
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
It began from the south-east, came about to the north—west, and then settled into the
north-east; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days
together we could, do nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us
wherever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve days, I need
not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up ; nor did any in the ship expect
to save their lives. _ '.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men died of
the calenture, and a man and a boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the
weather abating a little, the master made an observation as well as he could, and found
that he was in about eleven degrees of north latitude, but that he was twenty-two
degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St. Augustino ; so that he found he was
gotten upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazones, towards that of the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great River;
and now he began to consult.with me what course‘ he should take ; for the ship was
leaky, and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the sea-coast of
America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore
resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid the
in-draft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fteen days’_ sail; whereas we could not possibly make our voyagejo the coast of
Africa without some assistance both to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered away N.W. by ‘\V., inorder
to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was
otherwise determined; for, being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes,
a second storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the way of all human commerce, that had all our
lives been saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages
than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind 'still blowing very hard, one of our men early one morning
cried out, “Land 1” and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes
of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than' the ship struck upon a sand, and in
a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately, and we were even driven into
our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for anyone who has not been in the like condition to describe or
conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing where
we were, or upon what land it was we were driven; whether an island or the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited. As the rage of the wind was still great, though
rather less than at rst, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn
immediately about. In a word, we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for another world ; for
there was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that which was our present
SHZPWRE 011250. 3 r
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the ship
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to abate. '
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the ship having thus
Struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in
11 dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as
Well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was rst
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the next place, she broke away,
and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her. We had
another boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing;
however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute, and some told us she was actually broken already. ‘
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and with the help of
th‘tirest of the men, they got her ung over the ship’s side; and getting all into her,
let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God’s mercy and the wild
Sea: for though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadfully high
upon the shore, and might be well called den wild see, as the Dutch call the sea in a
Storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly that the sea
wtint so high that the boat could not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned’. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done
ahything with it ; so we worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts,
like men going to execution ; for we all knew that when the boat came near the shore,
She would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we
COmmitted our souls to God in the most earnest manner ;-and the wind driving us
towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well as
We could towards land. ‘
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not;
‘he only hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was if we
might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great chance
We might have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
Sn100th water. But there was nothing of this appeared ; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and an half, as we reckoned
it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect
the coup de grrire. In a word, it took us with ,such a fury that it overset the boat at
91106 3 and separating us as well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say, “ O God l”' for we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I'felt, when I sank into the
Water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so
as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rathercarried me, a vast way on
towards the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon “the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got
uPOn my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
\
43%“ {3M
 
 
 
 
 
 
zézzwmfytmr mm: géiilhli, mmm wk rm mg} :1 3; km; mm, iwmmi 21E; 21%
m MUM; ‘; My 1 @TW? way aimm mm ifzigigglia :32, m hm? amd, mfimm aim wifziath had my mfmzmxéaa was“ mmt wiih :: my E1
mm ‘Eg;mé;1"i% :zmi m” m; mymkf m}; T" m Mm Wm .' m if I] ; {UH}. 23%
Emmmw aimj wilim Wzyéii/EM Wm WM ‘m ; m 2m mm mm; mm: $3M Wwl‘fg aim Wmzhii, WWW” W3: :1, Mwzmil; Hm: aimri
 
 
mifimazia Mi;
{ ,
m
 
 
w
 
 
 
 
 
 
,itzimm am, mi Zmy mm kmik maxim with ii‘: Mil
‘l
 
 
M
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i I? ill
Ii
ww
mvifm
 
 
M mwji
 
 
Q if“ 1;? ifatwmwgi WW2 m1 121%
w’ m
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mm
mg; “m mm Ti a,
 
21in W‘Mi 5% W
 
 
w m.
 
 
 
 
, M
mwwrm m MEKZWWi/Ii’li“ @imiwiaifztm Mimi Wm ,,
m 12?; y Tkwmém {mail mm”; WM} :Zémm; a, z'mrrimw wzimfhii diifiwfl” 62m? {mm , I m?” 33% i 21m} faggkwmam m ilwfélmig Mm 23mm 1:13? WW3!
my?
mmfzmm 1
Mym WW3‘? zsqmfi mm
 
 
 
 
w
 
 
m
 
 
 
 
lm W217i W
 
 
%§
 
 
W@W"
 
 
aat gt 3
llllta tlata at thaaa twa had wallaigh liaaa fatal ta tat; fat aaa ttttttiatil aria alaag', ltatlita, iatttilatl am, at tatltat mat, a a ai
ttlttiffil, ttlltjl that Willft atititli iattira aa it tall; aattaalaaa, aatl itttlttatl at ta ta};
tltlttt titi’flilltlttlttlltiltl liar titta litiatt, taitia at atttl lfiaat tita litaatli it 'ttata
aaita aat at my latitl had it agaia iattaadiataly, atatt llttt’t’t ltaaa
la tlta Wtttttt ,; iatt taaataratl a littla liaitaa tlta tattttti at“ tlta ttataa, aatl
lj alitittltl ljltt tiaaatatl with ttla ttatat, t’tttlt'litttltii ta taat lay a ttiaaa at
ttialt, atitl ta ta ltaltil litaath, it paaailila, till waaa araat aw, ttata ttttt att at titat, lftttittg latiti, ll ltaitl lttiltl till watt:
atttl tltatt iattrltatl atttttitat illtttt, altittli ltttaigltt tat: aa ttttat alttita tltat ttaat watra, it want a war at itat aa awallatt ttttt tip at ta marry am away illltil a l. l gait ta llttl' taaialatttl ttlltttttt, ta tay tirattifatt, tlataliatad tip tli aliiia at tlita aitata, aad aat taa tlaittt aptitt tlta itaa itaia and tittt at that at that taatatt
aaw latttiati, atttl aaia tat altttra, aatl liagtatt ta 'laait tip titaalt (flail that lift: waa iii a witataia tlitttta Wtttt aataa taiatttaa ltalata ataraa tatatt ittiljiaaailala ta aapttiaa, ta tilt: liia, ttltat tlta atzatatriaa atitl traaatiiatta
iii tlta aaal ata altaa it aa aaattd, i tttaa aay, tiat at tha itaty : atttll tia ttat
ttaatlat atitt at that tatataat, ailttta a atalaiatztar, aha ltaa ltaltttr aliattt ttta, aati ittat ta tataati aii, aati a lirattgltt ta ititttaemil aay, it tiat ttaadar that tltay ljttiagf a attrgaa with. it, ta lat hiai liiilaatl that way atataaat
tail itlttt at it, that llltl“ atttptiaa taay aat tltiatt ttia aaitttal apirita ilattt .1 ltlaart,
atttl atarwlialta hiaa '
t‘ liar” aatttlaa iaya, griafa, aa'afaaatl at tltat.
 
 
 
 
i ttalltatl altttat aa tttt: altata, liitiagr' art my hattda, aatl tay tittiag, i may
tray, Wgiéw, up m 7,,’ wnwmwmtqm at” tialiattraaaa ; tttaitiag tltaaaaatl gttattttaa aatl
ttaa;it,”if,Q Wmh 1; mmmm mgmtlaa; itallatttiag apaa all my aattitatlaa that tltaa'aad,
mid that aliattld atit iltt aaa attttl aatati liatt atyaali ; fat, at far titata, l aaatt aaai
‘ltattaaa tttatt Wtttttt aat {a tall
them afterwards, or any sign of them‘, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows. -
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth of the sea being
so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far off; and considered, Lord! how was it‘
possible I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition, I began
to look round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be' done:
and I soon found my comforts ab'ate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful'deliverance:
for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to
comfort me; neither did I see any prospect before me but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts : and that which was particularly afflicting to
me was, that I had no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature‘ for my sustenance,
or to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs.
In a word, I had nothing ‘about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a
box. This was all my provision ; and this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that
for a while I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their prey. -
All the’ remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was to get up into a thick
bushy tree, like a r, but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all
night,‘and consider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect
of life. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could nd any fresh water‘
to drink, which I did to my great joy; and having drunk, and put a little tobacco in
my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured
to place myself so that if I should sleep I might not fall. And having cut me a short
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and being excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could have done
in my condition, and found myself more refreshed with it than Ithink I ever was on
such an occasion. ' '
WhenI waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated, so that‘
the sea did not rage and swell as before ; but that which surprised me most was, that
the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the
tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at rst mentioned, where I
had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it. This being within about a
mile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that at least I might save some necessary things for my use,
When I came down. from my apartment in the tree, I looked about me again, and '
the rst thing I found was theboat, which lay, as the wind and sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on‘my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon
the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck, or inlet, of water between me and the
boat, which was about half a mile broad ;' so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at'the ship, where I hoped to nd something for my present
subsistence. \ "
A little after noon I found the sea very calm’, and the tide ebbed so far out, that
 
A V JSIT TO THE W RECK. 3 5
I could come within a quarter of a mile. of the ship. And here, I found ‘a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently that if we had kept on board, we had been
all safe : that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable
I18 to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced
tears to my eyes again ; but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to
get to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
t00k the water. But when I came, to the ship, my difficulty was still greater‘to know ‘
how to get on board; for, as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there‘ was
‘ ‘nothing within my reach ,to'lay hold‘ of. ‘I swam ‘round her twice, and the second .-
time I espied a small piece of rope, which I wondered I- did not ‘see at rst, hanging
down by‘ the fore~chains so ‘low that, with.great dilliculty, I got holdof it, and by the
help of that rope got up into‘ the forecastle of the ship. ‘Here I found that the ship
‘Was bulged, and had a great deal of water inher hold ; but that she lay so on the side
of 11 bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and
her head low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and all
that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my rst work was to search, and‘to
5% what was spoiled- and what was free. And, rst, I found that all the ship’s
Provisions were dry and untouched by the water, and being very well disposed to eat,
I. went to the bread-room, and. lled my pockets with biscuit, and. ate it as I went
hbout other things, for -I had‘no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great
‘ Qabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I had, indeed, need enough of to '
SPirit me for what was before, me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself
with many things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me. ' , _' _
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had ; zi'nd this extremity
mused my application. We had several spare yards, and two or three large spars of
Wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the ship : I resolved to fall to work with these,
and I ung as many of them overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a. rope, that they might not drive away. When this was 'done I went down
. thé ship’s side, and pulling them to me I tied four of I them together at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or three‘ "short pieces ‘of plank
upon them, crossways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
th
raft, with a great deal of labour and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with
necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have done
“P011 another occasion. . i \
My mft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. > My next Care was
able to bear any great gveight, the pieces being too light. So I went to work, and with '
e carpenteris sawI cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, and added them to my _
What to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea : ,
but I'was not long considering this. I rst laid all the planks or boards upon it that
‘hilt I could get, and having considered‘well what I most wanted, I rst got three of
the Seamen’s chests, which I :had broken ‘open and emptied, and loweredthem down .
_upon my raft ; the rst of these I lled with provisions---viz., bread, rice, three Dutch
Qhgesesi ve pieces of ‘dried goat’s esh (which we lived much upon), and-alittle
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought
 
 
 
m 5% mm” m, Emit m
“Qt m Mimi; mimm hm and “Whml
g'ifihfti" hm; m m”, /
Wmimtzmmm, ft‘éit‘w
Mimi; that" 21% mm W}
m" mmild it: 1L {my
Eiqmmsh I fmmaii WW m} mi“ hl“? 1:1 a‘icmgimg m mm
ikipp 1,, whim w Warm WWW
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
wwa; maxi? ‘Em ML ammt: wf: m 1mm; ' A 3% w I; mwéiii 111W
:7, thaw m mfii um
maxi: ikzhmia imm w: athmty mm." mam
fm {hm Whiia: WM; dilfkg 'fthi, I;
,fmmd mm m aw, that» g;
wry mm; and I PfMTI 12M mizg'mimw
Wm, H} ' a, my amt? mm and wmaammtm
wjfxiath if}; Ift' am mam 21pm“ m kzmy
My hr mhmy 1%; himlw,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
m
 
 
é
 
 
 
 
Mmwwmg thiéé [mt rm mpm'a mmmmgémgi iiliifliihw M my mam ‘1:25? 1% I Wmt d my Pf‘iii“ mat mam m '
wim mam m 'Waiwk mm
'fmmd mm m: wmggrmmmr’ hiéé’? "whim w
mmm ml. m n higxwmiiimggf 0f‘ gwki Wmizi MW: 15;]
m mf£‘,, whm: m it, Wiiihm E‘mi
What; it; mmma,
 
 
 
 
 
 
117mm. 1 gm i1; dawn
‘ tim m mm mm ‘it, my I kmw in gma
[r
LOADING THE RAFT. 37.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two very good
fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols. These I secured rst, with some
Powder-horns, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three
barrels of powder in‘ the ship, but knew not where our gunner had’ stowed them ; but
with much search I found them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well
frEighted, and began to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither sail,
Oar, ‘nor rudder; and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements : rst, a smooth, calm sea ; secondly, the tide rising,
a11d setting in to the shore ; thirdly, what. little wind there was blew me towards the
land- And thus, having found two or three broken oars, belonging to the boat, and
besides the tools which were in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a hammer, with this
Cargo I put to sea. . For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I
f011nd it drive’a little distant from the place where I had landed before: by which I
Perceived that there was some indraught of the water, and consequently, I hoped to
nd some c'reek or river there, which I might make use of as a port to get to land with
my cargo. '
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a little opening of the land.
I found a strong current of the tide set into it ; so I guided my raft as well as I could,
to keep in the middle of the stream,
But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think
Verily would have broken my heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran
aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
Wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards the end that was aoat,
and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests,
to keep them in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength ;
neither durst I stir from the posture I was in ; but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water
brOught me a little more upon a level ; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
Oated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher,'I at length found. myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both
Sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for a proper
Place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping
"1 time to see some ship' at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the
Chast as I could. '
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to which, with great
Pain and difculty, I guided my raft, and at last got so near, that reaching ground with ,
my Oar, I could thrust her directly in. But here I had like to have dipped all my
Cargo into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep----that is to say, sloping--
there was no place to land but where one' end of my oat, if it ran on shore, would
he ‘so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo again.
All that I could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft ‘with my
Oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a at piece of ground,
whieh I expected the water would ow over ; and so it did. As soon as I found water
enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that at piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars. into the
ground—one on one side, near one end, and one on the other ‘side, near the other
end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe
on shore.
My next work was to view the country, ,and seek a proper place for my habitation,
and where to stow my goods, .to secure them from whatever might happen. Where I
was, I yet knew not ; whether on the continent or an island ; whether inhabited or not
inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a
mile from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some
other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling
‘pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus armed, I travelled for
discovery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great labour and difculty
got to the top, I saw my'fate, to my great aiiction-—-»viz., that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea : no land to be seen except some rocks, which lay a
great way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about three leagues to
the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I
tell what was t for food, and what not. At my coming :back, I shot at a great
bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I- believe‘lit was
the rst gun that had been red there since the creation of the world. I had no
sooner red but from all parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number of
fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming and crying, every one according to
his usual note, but not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I
killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its colour and (beak resembling it, but it had
no talons or claws more than common. Its esh was carrion, and t for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to work to bring
my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of the day: what to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing but some wild beast might devour me; though, as I afterwards found,
there was really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and boards
that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of but for that night’s lodging. As for
food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I- shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things out of the ship,
which would be useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board
the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the rst storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, till I got everything out
of the ship that I could get. Then I calleda council--»that is to say, in my thoughts--
whether I should take back the raft, but this appeared impracticable : so I resolved to
A SECOND CARGO. 39
'go as before, when the tide was down ; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went
from my hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a
Pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; and, having had.
experience of the rst, I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet
‘I brought away several things very useful to me; as, rst, in the carpenter's stores I
fOund two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I
Secured, together with several things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three
, iron crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling
piece, with some small quantity of powder more ; a, large'bagfull of small shot, and a
great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy I could not hoist it up to get it over
the ship’s side. I
Besides these things, I took all the men’s clothes that I could nd, and a spare fore-
t0p sail, a hammock, and some bedding ; and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehension during my absence from the land, that at least my
Provisions might be devoured on shore; but when I came back, I found no sign of
any visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which,
‘When I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She sat very
Composed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be
_ acquainted with me. I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she
W118 perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed
her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was ‘not very free of it, for my store was not
great ; however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled at it, and ate it,
and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no more: so
Sho‘marched off. ' ,
Having got my second cargo on shore---though I was obliged to open the barrels
0f_powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks--I
Went to work to make me a little tent, with the sail, and some poles which I cut for
that purpose; and into this tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil either
With rain or sun ; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up .in a circle round the
tnt, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some boards within,
and an empty chest set up on end without ; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to
bed for the rst time, and slept very quietly all night. I was very weary, and heavy ;
for the night before I had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as well to
fetch those things from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up, I believe, for one
.man; but still I was not satised, for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I
thmlght I ought to get everything out of her that I could ; so every day, at low water,
.. “font on board, and brought away something or other; but particularly the third
“me I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the
Aw mmmw ,
 
 
 
 
It? mi“ ' '
 
 
I w 11 " mziima'; Wm
m and. mm hmfr' mwdma
W: {a} wiiaaj,
I {Mm m wt
22?}. g , m m mmh 22¢
,7 Mild? {0% £161 w mm mmw:
I "
11, m mm flint“ wih, Mm 2mm: mmww
 
 
M as; W: M? I W
 
 
 
 
mm and k
" Vg‘yisar;
 
 
7‘
 
 
 
 
w
Ziiih m inf Wm rmjzm
limt m M @124 r }"'md
w m zai'x mimh W3‘ mm
‘wind mm" mm‘m m {am
Wm; {mm H Wmm my
>wmiaimg w L‘ {Aim will thiél, {mm}: 21% himj (if bmgmi, mm
7} 5%: WWW {115 mm, m‘ M
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1w
 
 
 
 
;; w; WY
Wd m
I}
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E, ‘
gamma
 
 
Wmvifééj
 
THE LAST OF THE SHIP. 41
now, having plundered the ship of what was portable and t to hand out, I
began with the cable; cutting the great cable into pieces such as I- could move, I
gottwo cable and a hawser on shore, with all the ‘iron-work I could get; and “
having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and everything I could to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods and came away. But my
good'luck began to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that
after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my
cargo into the water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the
Shore ; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I
expected would have been of great use to me; however, when the tide was out, I
got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with innite
1about; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work ‘which fatigued me very much.
After this, I went every day on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on board the,
Ship, in which time I had brought away all ‘that one pair of hands could well be sup-
Posed capable of bringing; though I verily believe, had the calm weather held, I
Should have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth
time to'go on board, I found the wind began to rise. However,-at low water I went on
board, and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually that nothing
more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I
fOund two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good ‘knives and forks ; in another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money—-
sOme European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. “ Oh, drug ! ” said I aloud, “ what
art thou good for P Thou art not worth to me---no, not the taking off the ground ; one
Of those knives is worth all this heap ; I have no manner of use for thee; e’en remain
‘where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving.”
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away ; and wrapping all in a piece of canv'as,
Ibegan to think of making another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the
Sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blewa fresh gale
from the shore. It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a
raft with the wind off shore; and that it was my business to be gone before the tide of
‘ O'od began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I
let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel which lay between the
ship and the sands, and even that with diiculty enough, partly with the weight of the
things I had about me, and partly from the roughness of the water ; for the wind rose
Very hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm._ '
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my wealth about me
V¢ry secure. It blew very hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked out,
behold, no more ship was to be seen. I was a little surprised, but recovered myself
with this satisfactory reection, that I had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to
get everything out of her that could be useful to me ; and that, indeed, there was little
left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out of her, except
what might drive on shore from her wreck ; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards
did ; but those things were of ‘small use to me.
-My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against either
savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had
many thoughts of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make—-
whether I should make me,a cave in the earth, or a tent-upon the earth 3 and, in short,
I resolved upon both ; the manner and description of which it may not be improper to
give an account of. '
I soon found the place I was in was not t for my settlement, particularly because
it was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole-,
some, and more particularly because there was no fresh water near it ; so I resolved to
nd a more healthy and more‘ convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would be proper for me ;
rst, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned ; secondly, shelter from the heat of
the sun ; thirdly, security from ravenous cr'eatures, whether man or beast ; fourthly, a
view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for
.my deliverance, of which I was not willing to' banish my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a. little plain on the side of a rising hill,
whose front towards this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side of the rock there was a hollow place,
worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave ; but there was not really any
cave, or way into the rock, at all.
, On the at of the green, just below this hollow place, I resolved to pitch my tent.
This plain was not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like
a green before my door ; and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down
into the low ground by the sea-side. It was on the *N.N.W. side of the hill ; so that
it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to the W. and by S. sun or
thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a halfscircle before the hollow place, which took in
about ten yards in its semi-diameter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter
from its beginning and ending.
-In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the ground
till they stood very rm like piles, the .biggest end being outiof the ground above ve
feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above six
inches from one another. ,
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows,
upon one another, within the circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a half high,
like a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong that neither man nor beast could
get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut
the piles in the woods, bring them to the ‘place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a short ladder to
go over the top ; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I was
My For TRESS. 4 3
Completely fenced in and fortied, as I thought, from all the world, and consequently
slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have done ; though, as it
‘appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I
apprehended danger from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with innite labour, I carried all my riches, all my
provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the account above‘; and I made
me a large tent also, to preserve me'from the rains, that in one part of the year are
very violent there. I made it double—via, one smaller tent within, and one larger
tent ‘above it ; and covered the uppermost part of it with a large tarpaulin, which I had
Saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed which I had brought on shore, but
in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the
Ship. ‘ .
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that would ‘spoil by the
Wet ; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now
I had left open, and so passed and re-passed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and bringing all the
earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent, I laid them up within my.
fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about a foot and a
half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house. ,
It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were brought to
perfection ; and therefore I must go back to some other things which took up some of
my thoughts. At the same time it occurred, after I had laid my scheme for the
Setting up the tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick,
dark cloud, a sudden ash of lightning happened, and after that, a great clap of
thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so much surprised with the-
lightning, as I was with the thought which darted into my mind as swift as the
lightning itself, “ Oh, my powder!” My very heart sank within me when I thought
'that, atone blast, all my powder might be destroyed; on which not my defence only,
but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing near so
anxious about my own danger; though, had the powder took re, I had never known
Who had hurt me. . . -
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over, I laid
aside all my work, my building and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags
‘and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in
hopes tlfat, whatever might come, it might not all take re at once; and to keep it so
apart that it should not be possible to make one part re another. I nished this
Work in about avfortnight ; and I think my powder, which in all was about one
hundred and forty pounds weight, was divided into no less than a hundred parcels.
As to the barrel that had been wet, I-did not apprehend any danger from that; so I
Placed it in my new cave, which, in my'fancy, I called my kitchen ; and the rest I hid
11p and down in holes among the looks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very
. carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at least once every day with
my gun, as well to divert myself as to see if I could kill anything t for food ; and, as
near as I could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The rst time I
went out, I presently discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me ; ‘but then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz., that they
were so shy, so subtle, and so_'swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in the
world to come at them ; but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happened 3 for after I had found their haunts
a little, I laid wait in this manner for them : I observed if they saw me in‘ the valleys,
though they were upon the rocks, they would run away, as in a terrible‘ fright ; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me ;
from whence I concluded that, by the position of their optics, their sightwas so directed
downward that they did not readily see objects that were above them; so afterwards
I took this method---I always climbed the rocks rst, to get above them, and then had
frequently a fair mark.
The rst shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which had a little
kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily 5 for, when the old one
fell, the kid stood stock-still by her, till I came and took her up ; and not only so, but
when I carried the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure ; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and
carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame ;, but it would not eat ; so I
was forced to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me with esh a great while,
for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as much as I possibly
could.
Having now xed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary. to provide a place
to make a re in, and fuel to burn ; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged
-my cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of in its place;
but I must'now give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed, were not a few. ' _
I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was not cast away upon that
island without ‘being driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of
our intended voyage, and a great way, viz., some hundreds of leagues, out of the
ordinary‘ course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a deter-
mination of Heaven that in this desolate place, and in this'desolate manner, I should
end_my life. The tears would run plentifully down my face when I made these
reections ; and sometimes I would expostulate with ‘myself why Providence should
thus completely ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable, so withdut'
help abandoned, and so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts, and to
reprove me ; and particularly one day walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside,
I was very pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when Reason, as it were,
put in expostulating with me the other way, thus: “Well, you are in a desolate
condition, it is true ; but, pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you
1‘
 
sense elesen nil yen intn the heat? tea I? Whynere net they eased,
anrl yen inst? are yen est? Is it tn he here er i had
‘then I painted tn the sea. as nails are in he ennsirlereril with that there
and. with tied there
tn well I, nrnished far as and what wnnlrl hare nip
‘if it harl nnr happened lrrhieh
rlnarerl frnrn rhe plane she streak, anal an tn the share, that had time tn all
these things net ni~ her? llrihat have heen ray ease, harl il'nreerl is have liresl in the enrnlirinn
in whieh I at that name as share, with»
net neeessaries at life, nr any tn snpply anti ;jrrnenre thenr ? ‘l thaslarly,M l alnnti
myself), ‘i nil/rat shnnltl have risen rrithnnr a
w
withnnr arnrnnnitinn, with
eat any tents tn rnahe
anything, er tn wnrh i"
rsirhnnt elnthes, sent, as any
rnanner nf enreringsi anti new
I heel all these in a stnilieient quantity,
and was a fair tn prnsirle self in sash rnanner in live wirhnnt
my gas, when my annnnnitinn was
spent: an that i has a relerahle view
at“ snhsisring srithnnt any want lnng
as 1 lines; ihr l ennsiriererl here the
heginning has I wnnhl preside has
the aeeirlenrs that happen, anrl
 
 
fer the time that was re seine, esen
net sale after my arnnrnniginn shnnltl
he spent, hat even after 'rny health
anal strength shnnlri
I ennfess I had her then entertained, any series nf ray annnnnitien lasing mmllerl at; ene hilastawl rnean, rirnrrrier heing hlnnn up hy and this
made the rhnnghrs hi it surprising he see, when it: lightened and thundered, as l
rehearsed; inst new.
Anti new, heing tn enter intn a rnelanehnly relatinn er” seene n'f silent an, sash,
rne are are is. as}.
perhaps,_as was never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning,
and .continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September when, in
the manner as above said, I rst set foot upon this horrid island; when the sun
being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head: for I reckoned
myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north
of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my thoughts that I
should lose my reckoning of time for want of books, and pen, and ink, and should
even forget the Sabbath-day from the working days ; but to prevent this, I cut it with
my knife upon a large post, in capital letters ;' and making it into a great cross, I set
it up on the shore where I rst landed, viz., “I came on shore here on the 30th of
September, 1659.” i “
Upon the sides of this square post I out every day a notch with my knife, and every
seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every rst day of the month as long
again as that long one ; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly
reckoning of time. .
In the next place, we are to observe that among the many things which I brought
from the ship in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I omitted setting
down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain’s,
mate’s, gunner’s, and carpenter’s keeping ; three or four compasses, some mathematical
instruments, dials‘, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; all which I huddled
together, whether I might want them or no: also I found three very good Bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also ;'and, among them, two or three Popish prayer-
books, and several other books ; all which I carefully secured. And I must not forget
that we had in the ship a dog ahd two cats, of whose eminent historyI must have
occasion to say something in its place, for I carried both the cats with me; and as for
’the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after
I went on shore with my rst cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years; I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could make up to
me ; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to'the utmost; and I shall .
show that while my ink lasted I kept things very exact ; but after that was gone I could
' not, for I could not make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstanding all that I had
amassed together; and of these, ink was one : as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel to
dig or remove the earth ; needles, pins, and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to
want that without much difculty. '
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily ; and it was neara whole
year before I had entirely nished my little pale, or surrounded habitation. The piles
or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were along time in cutting and
preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home ; so that I spent sometimes
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driving
THE EVIL — THE Goon. 47
it into the ground ; for which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at rst, but at last
bethought myself of one of the iron crows; which, however, though I found it, yet
made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what need I
have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time
enough to do it in? nor had I any other employment, if that had been over, at least
that I could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did, more
or less, every day. ' -
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstances I was
reduced to; and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to leave
them to any that were to come after me, for I was like to have but few heirs, as to
deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind ; and as my
reason. began now to master my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I
Could, and to set the good against the evil, that I might have something to distinguish
my case from worse, and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the
Comfort I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus 1--
q
EVIL.
I am cast upon a horrible, desolate is-
_ land ; void of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and separated, as it
Were, from all the world, to be miserable.
GOOD.
But I am alive; and not drowned, as all my ship’s
company was. - '
But I am singled out, too, from all the ship’s crew, to
be spared from death; and He that miraculously saved
me from death can deliver me from this condition.
But I am not starved, and perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance. , '
But I am in a hot climate,.where if I had clothes, 1
could hardly wear them. _
But I am cast on an island where I see no wild beasts
to hurt me, as I saw on the coast of Africa ; and what if
I had been shipwrecked there?
But God wonderfully sent the ship in near enough to
the shore, that I have got out so many necessary things
as will either supply'my wants or enable me to supply
myself, even as long as I live.
I am divided from mankind, a solitary;
One banished from human society.
I have no clothes to cover me. I
I ‘ i
I am without any defence, or means to
resist any violence of man or beast.
I have no soul to speak to or relieve me.
I
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that there was scarce any
COndition in the world so miserable but there was something negative, or something
, Positive, to be thankful for in it : and let this stand as a direction, from the experience
‘of the most miserable of all conditions in this world--that we may always nd in it
something to comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the description of good and evil,
911 the credit side of the account. ‘
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and giving over
looking out to sea if I could spy a ship—I say, giving over these things, I began to
app?’ myself to accommodate my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as I
con (1.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under the side of a rock,
surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables; but I might now rather call it a
‘ wall. for Lraised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet-thick, on- the
Outside ; and after some time (I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
illiiiiiiiii iii‘ illii iiiilliii tili'lil lllslisltsslas sasarati with liiiaaglis all“ traas, aasl sash siaalli‘l ta ass raia, wliiisli faaasl at saiaa ai yaas sasy
‘sialaiiis
liasa alraasly aiiiisassasl has i liraagiit all my gastritis iata this aaia, sail lam sass Wltlslt l hail ‘as. T’ lsjiilill aia. list mast; aiaassa, taa, iliai at "was a
aaaiiisaii liaaa ai gaasls, Wlliilil, tli. is. aa arslaa, sa iii taak as all say hari aa iaiiaa ta tasa aiysalf :; I sat: ta anlasyga ray sass, sail waritasi fami‘iayy
 
 
g;
 
 
 
‘ti Waassa sasara a sass aassa Viifl‘ilil a as}.
a
rats tlia aasrli; ias it: a laasa, saaiiiy sass, aliiah yialsiarl aasily is this lalfiaia l
liastaaail as, is : sari sa alias ll faaaiii l was psa'tty safa as as haastis af pray, l waifliiaa
sislaaays, as this sighs: haaii, iiata aha sass, sail ass aaaiag ta sighs again, amflwd
aaiia ass, ass a iiaas ta saaia alas aatsisla ai aala as fasiiiiaatiaa...
allais was sat aaly agrass sad ssgirass, as it was a aaala way‘ say asst sad is
iiiilltiiiiiiiliiiii list gasa aia saaia ta stais say aaw laagaa ta aiiialy aaysali ta aasassasy thiags 1 {ying 1‘ mm,
assist/l, aariiaalasly a ahais aasl a ta’ala j; far isitiiaat tliasa l, was sat alila sa aajay iaw aaaiiasts I had is waslil saalsl aat; waits, as sat, m» wwmy ,Mmg with
as llliiilli alaasasa aiiliaat a talala. I I will” m ‘Wilfli i Mail has l mast aasrls that: as raasaa is aha sahstaaaa
[ BEGIN MY jOURZVAL. 49
and original of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring everything by reason, and
by making the most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time, master of
every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by
1bour, application, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could _
have made it, especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance of things
even without tools 3 and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which,
Perhaps, were never made that way before, and that with innite labour. For example,
if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it at on either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin
as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I could
' make but one board out of a whole tree ; but this I had no remedy for but patience,
any more than I had for the prodigious‘ deal of time and labour which it took me up to
make a plank or board ; but my time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well
employed one way as another. '
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed‘ above, in the rst place;
and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the
Ship, But when I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves,
of the breadth of a foot and an half, one over another, all along one side of my
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, ‘and iron-work on; and, .in a word, to separate
eVcrything at large into their places that I might come easily at them; also I
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that
Would hang up: so that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had everything so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such, order, and
, esPecially to nd my stock of all-necessaries so great. .
And now it was when I began to keep a Journal of every day’s employment ; for,
~irIdeed, at rst I was in too much hurry, and not only an hurry as to labour, but in '
tOo much discomposure of mind ; and my Journal would have been full of many dull
' things: for example, I must have said thus: “Sept. t/ze goth—After I had got to
Shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of ‘being thankful to God for my deliverance,
having rst vomited, with the great quantity of‘ salt water which was gotten into my
StOltnach, and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore wringing my hands and
bcating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying out I was undone,
uI1done! till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to repose, but
durst: not sleep, for fear of being devoured.” '
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and had got all I
COllld out .of her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship : then fancy at a vast distance I spied a
Sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then, after looking steadily till-I was
aImcst blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly. .
But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled my
‘ household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
about me as I could, I began I say to keep my Journal ; of which I shall here give you
4 - o
the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over again), as long as it lasted ;.
for at last, having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
Septeméer 30, 1659.—-I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, ‘
during a dreadful storm, in the oing, came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate
island, which I called “The Island of Despair ;” all the rest of the. ship’s company
being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of the day I spent in alicting myself at the dismal circumstances I was
brought to : via, I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to y to ; and,
in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me: either that I should be
devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food.
At the approach of night I slept in a tree, for‘ fear of wild creatures ; but slept ‘soundly,
though it rained all night. '
Oa‘oer r.—-In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship had oated with
the high tide, and was driven on shore again, much nearer the island ; which, as it was
some comfort, on one hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I
hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get some food and necessaries
out of her for my relief), so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who,:I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have saved the ship,
or, at least, that they would not have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had
the men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship
to have carried us to some other part of the world. I spent great part of this day in
perplexing myself on these things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went
upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all. '
From i/ze 1S! qf OdOZIer to tire 24z‘lz.---All these days entirely spent in many several
voyages to get all I could out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of
ood, upon rafts. Much rain also, in these days, though with some intervals of fair
weather ; but it seems this was the rainy season.
Oct. 24.-—I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon it; but being in
shoal-water, and the things being chiey heavy, I recovered many of them when the
tide was out. '
0:1‘. 25.-—It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind; during which
time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no
more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day
in covering and securing the goods which I saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.--I walked about- the shore almost all day, to nd out a place to x my
habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from ‘any attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Towards night I xed upon a proper place, under a rock, and
marked out a semi-circle for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a
work, wall, or fortication, made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.
Jlly fOURNAL. 5 1
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in‘carrying'all my goods to'my. new 1..
habitation, though some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 3rst, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun, to see for some
food, and discover the country ; ‘when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me
home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
Zvoveméer r.—-I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the rst night;
-- making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
ZVov. 2.---I set up all my chests and boards and the pieces of timber which made
my rafts, and with them formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortication.
Mr). 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, which were very
good food. In the afternoon went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4.-—This morning I began to order my times of work, of going out with my
gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion: via, every morning I walked out with my
gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain 5 then employed myself to work till about
eleven o’clock ; then ate what I had to live on ; and from twelve to two I lay down to
deep, the weather being excessive hot ; and then, in the evening, to work again. The
W(Jrking part of this day and the next were wholly employed in making this table, for I
was yet but a very sorry workman, though‘ time and necessity made me a complete
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would do anyone else.
Nov. 5.—This day I went abroad with my gun and my dog, and killed a wild eat;
her skin pretty soft, but her esh good for nothing. Every creature I killed, I took off
‘the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of
S"iii-fowls, which I did not understand ; but was surprised, and almost frighted, with two
01‘ three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into
the Sea, and escaped me for that time. .
_ Nov. 6.—After my morning walk, I went to work with my table again, and nished
1t: though not to my liking ; nor was it long before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7.—-Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, roth, and part
of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday according to my reckoning), I took wholly up to
‘make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to
Please me ; and even in the making I pulled it to pieces several times.
Note.--I soon neglected keeping Sundays ; for, omitting my mark for them on my
post, I forgot which was which. '
Nov. 13.—This day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly, and cooled the
earth ; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning, which frighted me
dreadfully for fear of my powder. As soon as it ‘was over, I resolved to separate
{my stock of powder ' into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not be ,
In danger.
‘ Nov. 14, 15, 16. --These three days I spent in making little square chests, or boxes,
which might hold about a pound, or two pounds at most, of 'powder ; and so, putting
t 9 powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one another as possible.
11 One of these three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
What to call it.
a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, a
sass/‘l, a
l aaisa‘a' i all
W
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
isaa. sraiss, ail "
i
ii, ti‘is l,
 
 
aaaisi sla as
l ham ' alas
iri saaraiiia
iaaaril a is
 
 
 
 
intn ttltt‘t't‘t ht n thnvni nt nttttrtly thnnntt hhn nntt tn
; at tjtnttnnt, it
M1! \
. t
hnginnti, nnty thnt litnttttt pttt h nn htnt thnti nnnn n
nnt httt ntn tn tnng “ttnntttnt, it ttnll nnnngh the
W
n
 
 
l hnti nnnnttnn tn it tn; hat n nftnt that
htthiinn, nt tn lnng nth
I
tint tnnhn tnnnnt, hntin
 
nnti th nttntnnt h
nn thi ttti that nnnhit
hnntfl tn tnnhn my "
ntntn thnntl nnt nntfl
tn than nhnnlintttnw, it tinnnintt
ntntlti ntnhn nil hnt nhnnl hnt that l; nntitnt nf t; hnnn tnnt tn
ntntnt it ;, hntittnt, it “tnnfi nn than
it” thn thin nti ht” thn
, tn ntn tn it ‘it
nntl tn, nnttying hntt, inh tlftn lnhnntttt tintty
tnnttnt tthnn thy thn
Wttt nnt tn tn tnn thn thn
in tn hnttntt, tnnh tnn n nn ttntn fnnt tntnn ntty tinntningh
 
w
~ Zhhn nth htttn ttnnti tttli, litnnntnn ht in thntn
nn,
,ttllnnnti, tnnnt in nithtntng anti thy that it
, At; tn
hnhil thy ntnfntnntlinntlyt
W nnntnnnnntntn n nt n hitnhnn, n tiinhtgntntnn, n It tn tnnt ntnnpt thttt tnntntintnt, in thn ttnt tnnttnt nf
Kim t'ttttt it tninttt hnttt that ntntiti nnt thy, nhinh tnn
tn nntnt all my plnnn within my with pnhtt, tn nan nit
itnntng thn tnnh, and thntn with nnti nt” ttnnt,
 
 
hhn n thttnhi
tttttnt hntt tnntin tnn httgn} gttnt ttnnntity ht tntth fnlt ttnnn t’tntn ‘t
Xhnnnhtn tnimif nnn tn nnt nntn nt tnnlt hnithnti, whnn nn tnthftnn
‘ tnn and
1»
 
 
it titnn I wntltttl tn tnnhn thin tnnnt, nt hath, tnnninnt tnnngh
one side ; so much that, in short, it frighted me, and not without reason, too ; for if I
had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster I had a
great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out ; and, which
was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more
would come down. ‘
Dec, 1 r.—This day I went to work with, it accordingly, and got two shores or posts
pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of board across over each post; this I
nished the next day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more
I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to
part off my house.
Dec. r7.--From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and knocked up nails on the
posts, to hang everything up that could be hung up ;. and now I began to be in some
order within doors.
Dec. zo.—Now I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish my house,
and set up some pieces of board like a dresser, to order my victuals upon ; but board
began to be very scarce with me : also I made me another table. *
Dec. 24.--Much rain all night and all day ; no stirring out.
‘ Der. 2 5.-—Rain all day. -
Der. 26.--No rain‘, and the earth much cooler than before, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27.--Killed_a young goat, and lamed another so that I catched it, and led it
home in a string ; when I had it at home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was
broke.
NB.—-I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew well and as strong as
ever ; but by nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door,
and would not go away. This was the rst time that I entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food when my powder and shot
were all spent. '
Dec. 28, 29, 3o, 31.—-Great beats, and no breeze, so that there was no stirring
abroad, except in the evening, for food ; this time I spent in putting all my things in
‘order within doors.
fmzuary 1.--Very hot still: but I went abroad early and late with my gun, and
lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going farther into the valleys
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceedingly shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try if I could not
bring my dog to hunt them down. " ,
fan‘. 2.—Accordingly, the next day I went out with my dog, and set him upon the
goats; but Iwas mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his
danger too well, for he would not come near them.
fan. 3.--I began my fence, or wall ; which, being still jealous'of my being attacked
by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
NB.--~This wall. being described before, I purposely omit what was said in the
Journal ; it is sutcient to observe that I was no less time than from the 3rd of january
to the 14th of April working, nishing, and perfecting this wall, though it was no more
than aboilt twenty-four yards in length, beingr a half~circle, from one place in the rock
H 0 USEHOLD A FFA ms. 5 5
to another place, about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre
, behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days, nay, some-
times weeks together; but I thought I should never be perfectly secure till this wall
was nished ; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything was done
With, especially the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground ;
for I made them much bigger than I needed to have done.
When this wall was nished, and the outside double-fenced, with a turf wall raised
up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people were to come on shore there, they
would not perceive anything like a habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as may
be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made rounds in the woods for game every day, when the rain
permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other to
my advantage; particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, which build, not as wood-
Pigeons in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks ; and taking
SOme young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so ; but when they
grew older they ew all away, which perhaps was at rst for want of feeding them, for
Ihad nothing to give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their
Young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found myself wanting in many
things, which I thought at rst it was impossible for me to make; as, indeed, as to
some of them it was : for instance, I could -never make a cask to be hooped. I had a
Small runlet or two, as I observed before ; but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in
hthe heads, nor join the stav'es so true to one another as to make't'hem hold water ; so
'I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles ; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o’clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the
lump of bees’-wax with which I made candles in my African adventure ; but I had none _
.Of that now. ; the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat I saved the
talllow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added
a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp ; and this gave me light,‘though not a clear
Steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my labours it happened that, rummaging
_ my things, I found a little bag which, as I hinted before, had been lled with corn for
the feeding of poultry—not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
Came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all
devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but_husks and dust; and being
Willing to have the bag for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I
divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of corn out
Of it on one side of my fortication, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned that I threw this stuff
away, taking no-notice of anything, and not so much as remembering that I had thrown
anything there, when, about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of
sOmething green shooting upon the ground, which I fancied might'be songe plant I
a til/t1;
 
 
 
 
hati hat ' as 5, hat i sail whats, shat a laaggar
tima, ahattt taa at sass ataiaa aat, whiah aatiaatly as hatlay, ai tha
sataa hiatl ass liatayaaawmaay, attt hatlay.
lt iataassilti ta aspr , tha astattisiataat aatl aaat tiaa at” my thaagiitts as this
,,,,,,iaa I; l hati hitharta aatari ayiaa aa iiiattttlatiaa at all, f it'ttil atl, l hail saty
 
 
 
 
 
 
It
aatiaas ai taiigiaa titty aar hast say at‘ that hafallaa athatwiss thaw a sass, at, llijiftllly wlriat tlitiiti, withaat
sa stash iata tha aatl at” iéltasitlaaaa is titissa at artist is
ssaats is tha watlti. lléiat l; iiiatlay
gtaw thata is a alitaata whiah ltaaw was a at ywaaat
t as ta, sail that l has sat aw it aaaia
thata, it stattlati taa wily, sad It as is sags
ttiitaaalaa witliiattt a ai atl sawa, aatl ‘that sa stirs "yl'awaly its way sastsaaaas is
th wiltl, taisataliila aiaaa.
ttiaittah as}? aatl hraa
‘ ‘ ta
 
 
is“
 
 
 
 
 
 
t“;
 
 
 
 
 
 
stats shah i
aygiaa say aasaat at th its
ta ,tw asst
‘I , all lay
saaia athst stalhs, whiah ta .. at this,
aatl whiah if haaaasa l hatl it is stitiaa whaa
I aat aaly thaagiht
thast tiara ywa
tlaatiaas at liltasitl-
his stat/waist,
hat a at alas hat
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a
1. has
that taata
tha plats, Iii all asst that watt af
tha islaatl whats hati haaa litttilittt, assay
assay aataat
sad assist assay sash,
ta ass {at tttata at" its
l
 
 
ill
 
 
t
 
 
ltttt, tn it hnnn tiltntninti
*
‘tilt nnti nf ;lnnn nntl np
‘ill hntn nnnntity, tnliininnt
thnn hnt nnntinglt, nn l
 
lilttl l nnnlcl nnt tiny", , lntt it nnnnttntl tn in}; thnnghtn thnt hntl nhnltnn
thn nt“ nhinltnnnl tnnnt nnt in tlint hinting, ntni thn nnntlnt tn tttttl l tnntit nnntlntn, nity tnliginnn thnnlct‘nlnnnn tn tlj'lntiit ntntitlnnnn tn nhntn
tnn, nnnn thn tiinnntnting lllttl; all thin Wtttl nnthing llllll nhnt n ,l nntnntnn 1; thnngh i
lilltnitt tn hnnn hnnn nn thnnlttnl
llllt" tn nttnngin nnti nnfntntnnn
lttntitlnnnn hit it it hntl lnnn
tnitnnnlnnn; in nnt tnnlly
ttnrlt nt tnnn tn
illllt‘ thnt nhnnltl nnlnt nt in? nnint
lltttt nt gtnint nl nntn
thnnltl tntnnin 'nntpnilnti, nthnn
lltt nttn hntl tintttnyntl thn
ltntn linntnn ; nt nltn thnt l
tllnnltl it nnt intn that
ilttltlitiittlttt liltllttitl, tthntn, it lining
nf n h tnnlt, it
illltttn nn innnntlintnly
tl thnt titnn, it hnti llltttftl lintnt
nntl tinnttny
nntnlnlly thn nntt ni
nntn, ynn hn nntn, in
n
lltnn tnntnn, nhnnt
t‘tnty hntn, i tnnnlt tl tn tint
iilitttt till it; nin, in tot nnt tlnntth ytnt “it ‘ ttnnltl nllnn in, thn nl
 
 
tltnll tiny‘ in hit 5; “ a, y in},
l lnnt nll that tnttntl
 
Qililtltttt, nnt nhtntting
iilh ttt lnntt nnt ttn it nnnld hntn tinnt: nf nhinlt in in tilnnn
thin lintl nntn, nn nlintn, tttnnty nt thitty ttnlltn nf tint, n'hinh l
lttntnttnnl nith. thn tntnn nntn, nntl ttltnnn ntn wan nrf thn ntnnn nt tn th nnnn
iliillttt tintn ;. tn nnnntl jintt lintntn thy tnntnn, tn tin
 
 
illllhnnn, tin, tn tnnhn inn htnntl, nit tnthnt fnntl ; int i tnnntl nnyt tn nnnlt it hp
tnthnnt thnngh l tlln thnt nltn nitnr nntnn titnn
lint tn tntntn tn ,lnntnnl in
(J!
01'
ROBINSON C R USOE.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months, to get my wall done ; and the
14th of April I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a_door, but over a wall,
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.
April 16.—-I nished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to the top, and then
pulled it up after me, and let it down on the inside : this was a complete enclosure to
me ; for within I had room enough, and nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could rst mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was nished, I had almost had all my labour
overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case was thus :---As I was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened
with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed : for, all on a sudden, I found the earth
came tumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner I
was heartily scared ; but thought nothing of what really was the cause, only thinking
that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done before : and for fear I
should be buried in it, I ran forwards to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected might
roll down upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon the rm ground, than I
plainly saw it ,was a terrible earthquake; for the ground'I stood on shook three times
at about eight minutes’ distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have stood upon the earth ; and a great
piece of the top of the rock which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell
down with'such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I perceived also the
very sea was put into a violent motion by it ; and I believe the shocks were stronger
under the water than on the island. ,
Iwas so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, or discoursed with
anyone that had, that I was like one dead br stupeed ; and the motion of the earth
made my stomach sick like one that was tossed’ at sea; but the noise of the falling
of the rock awaked me as it were, and rousirig me from the stupeed condition I .was
in, lled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling'upon my
tent and all my household goods, and burying all at once ; and this sunk my very soul
within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to take
courage ; and yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall agairi, for fear of being
buried alive, but still sat upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not
knowing what to do. All this while, I had not the least serious religious thought;
nothing but the common “Lord, have mercy upon me!” and when it was over, that
went away too. ’
While I sat thus, I found the air overciist, and it grew cloudy, as if it would rain;
soon after that, the wind arose by little and little, so- that in less than half an hour it
blew a most dreadful hurricane of wind: the sea .was, all on a sudden, covered with
foam and froth , the ‘shore was covered with the breach. of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots ; and a terrible storm it was. This held about-three hours, and
then began to abate ; and then in two hours more it was calm, and began to rain very
, , EARTHQUAKE AND STORM. ' 59
hard. All this while I sat upon the ground very much terried and dejected ; when
on a sudden it came into my thoughts that'these winds and rain being the consequences
of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my Cave again. With this thought, my spirits began to revive; and the rain also
' helping to persuade me,-'I went in and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so
Vicllent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it ; and I. was forced to go into
my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole through my new
fOrtications, like a sink, to let the water go out, which would else have drowned my
cave- After I had been inmy cave some time, and found still'no more shocks of the
earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And now ,to support my spirits,
Which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and took a small'sup of
n"11 ; which, however, I did then and always very sparingly, knowing I could have no
more when that was gone. It continued raining all that night, and great part of the
neXt day, so that I could not stir abroad ; but my mind being more composed, I began
to think of what I had best‘ to do ; concluding that if the island was subject to these
earlihquakes, there would be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building
. me Some little but in an open place which I might surround with a wall, as I had done
here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men ; for I concluded if I stayed
where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent from the place where it now
Stood, which was just under the hanging precipice of the hill ; and which, if it should
be Shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent: and I spent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my
habitation. The fear of being swallowed up alive ‘made. me that I never slept in
Clllliet; and yet the apprehensions of lying abroad without any fence were almost equal
to it; but still, when I looked about, and saw how everything was put in order, how
Pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made me loth to remove.
In the meantime, it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to
do this, and that I must be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had
formed a camp for myself, and had secured it "so as to remove to it. So with this
resOlution I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all
, SPeed ‘to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c., in a circle, as before, and set my‘
‘tent up in it, when it was nished ; but that I would venture to stay where I was till it
was nished, and t to remove to. This was the zrst.
April 22.--The next morning I began to consider of means to put this resolve in
eXeeution ; but I was at a great loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for trafc with the Indians); but
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches, and
dull; and though I had a, grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too.
his cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand
.Point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length, I contrived
‘1 Wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at
llbev-t ‘ .
a y,
Z, ,,
 
 
 
Wm ifmaii
mm 2+}; n my thing; in Zgzmdy
mm MW it
mm xii/mm
mmim
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
)1
 
 
 
Kama’: Wm
mm
£3: :11 w 511'“ h, i g
‘" phimfw MW
" Wm
it w
 
 
 
 
{m mmm my
 
 
 
 
 
M? 3w.”
2%, %§§)~Z”€iild m1, E ,, whiliig I. mam a anyway 21%,
WW
 
 
 
 
g1“;
 
 
 
 
“g I; i
 
 
 
 
 
 
em itgai‘fggéifr “£1715???” {mi/Jimmy?
W
mmi hawk/lm} ‘
 
 
ii}??? 21%;, Wzw
miwmmiia Kiwi“:
 
 
 
 
MW
741m it; w,
mail : imkiiggg
wwirazk I thmuggm it: zamzmmfi
m m’z a}? lm;
it; mm m m I tiiféiémimffid Mm
I 13mm}. h airiwzrm win, mmr‘,
ma}, mam mm @1 Eimrm} my?’ gmmiwwdw hm ” hm m Wiitif zzmd £15m
Vilwdf '
"\v
 
 
M
‘g
(j
 
 
5w
 
 
i; hawk :11 imwwm mm} it mm» {m aahajym 17m MW
M”; m
 
 
 
 
nnti ninnt nn that y
i ntntltl tn thn tttntlt ni ll ‘ nhn
t tnntn
l‘ in tinttn tn thin l fnnntl
tntntn 1h inn; ttliinl.
ntintl in nnntl, h n
tin
t, ttntn, tthi ll tint
htnlntn tn l;
l
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
int tintt t
i thn illntn ni thn nillttt lntfl
ntt nnnnt , 91*’ in t ;i, it
nnn
 
 
‘1/
n»
 
 
nnt nntil th ttnt ti. nn titi ntntn, tlntt tthntn l t 1,; hit nithin nnnttnt nf ' ttithnnt tttinnninili nnn
7, hp tn hnt n" th
nnn htttfttltttttil n gt hnt
ninnlntlt it tnnnt
thn tntthnnnltn g; nn.
thin tinltnnn thn thin
 
 
 
 
 
 
l nnt:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I t ntntn ht it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n tnnt iltntti‘ n
 
 
 
 
 
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces that ‘I could of the ship, "concluding that
everything I could get from her would be of some use or other to me.
.May 3.—--I began with my ‘saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, .which I thought
held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it through,
I cleared awav the sand as well as I could from the side which lay highest; but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
Illay 4.-—I went a-shing, but caught not one sh that I durst eat of, till I was
weary of my sport; when, just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks ; yet I frequently caught
sh enough, as much as I cared to eat ; all which I dried in the sun, and ate
them dry. . ~
May 5.--Worked on the wreck; out another beam asunder, and brought three
great r planks off from the decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of ood came on. _ “
Ilfay 6.—-\Vorked on the wreck ; got several iron bolts out of her, and other pieces
of iron-work; worked very hard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over. _
Illizy 7.—-Wen_t to the wreck again, with an intent not to work, but found the weight
of the wreck had broken itself down, the beams being cut ; that several pieces of the
ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so open that I could see into
it ; but it was almost full of water and sand.
Ilia)’ 8.---\Vent to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck, which
lay now quite clear of the water or sand. I wrenched open two planks, and brought
them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for‘ next day.
1110)’ 9.—-'-\Vent to the wreck, and with the crow made way intothe body of the
wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not break
them up. ‘ I felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy to
move.
.May 10, 11, 12, r 3, r4.--Went every day to the wreck; and got a great deal of
I pieces of timber, and boards, or planks, and two or three hundredweight of iron.
.Zlfay 15.-—I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a piece off the roll of
lead, by placing the edge‘ of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay
about a foot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16.-—It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more broken by
the force of the water ; but I stayed so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that
the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.
Ilfay r7.-I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great distance,vnear
two miles off me, but resolved to see what they were; and found they were pieces of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
Illa)’ 24.-—Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck ; and with hard labour I
loosened some things so much with the crow, that the rst owing ‘tide several casks
oated-out, and two of the seamen’s chests; but the wind blowing from the shore,
nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some
VIOLENT A GUE. - 6 3
Brazil pork in it; but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this
work every day to the 15th of june, except the time necessary to get food, which I
‘always appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up, that
might be ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this time I had gotten timber, and
plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how; and
also I got, at several times, and in several pieces, near one hundredweight of the
Sheet-lead, .
fzme r6.—Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tortoise, or turtle. This
was the rst I had seen, which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
Plflee or the scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other side of the island, _I
might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards, but perhaps had
_ paid dear enough for them.
me 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her threescore eggs; and her
fie-Sh was to me, at that time, the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my
hie, having had no esh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.
_me 18.—Rained all the day, and I stayed within. I thought, at this time, the
ram felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
me 19.---Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.
flme 20.—--~N0 rest all night ; violent pains in my head, and feverish.
fzme 21.---Very ill; frighted almost to death with the apprehensions of my sad
condition-“to be sick, and no help : prayed to God, for the rst time since the storm
Off Hull, but scarce knew what I said or why ; my thoughts being all confused.
flme 22.—-A little better ; ‘but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness. .
flme 2 3.—Very bad again ; cold and shivering, and then a violent headache.
ute 24.--Much better. _ i i
. jime 2 ague, very violent: the t held me seven hours; cold t, and hot
with faint sweats after it. . '
fmze 26.—-Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, but found myself
Yer weak ; however, I killed a she-goat, and with much difculty got it home, and
. 1'oiled some of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but
‘id 110 pot. :
flme 27.—The ague again so violent that-I lay a-bed all day and neither ate nor
rank. I was ready to perish for thirst ; but so weak I had no strength to stand up,
or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and
when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to 'say; only I lay and cried,
Lord, look upon me I Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me I ” I suppose I did’
110thing else for two or three hours; till the t wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not
awake till far in the night. When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak,
and exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was
Greed to lie till morning,'and went to sleep again. In this second sleep, I had this
tel‘Ilble dream : I thought that I was sitting ‘on the ground, on the outside- of my wall,
where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
all over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look towards him: his
from‘a great black cloud, in a bright ame of re, and light upon the ground : he'was '
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe 3 when
he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it had
done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had
been lled with ashes of re. He was, no sooner landed upon the earth but he
moved forwards towards mé, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and
when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he‘ spoke to me—-or I heard a
voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it. All that I can say I
understood was this':—--“ Seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance,
now thou shall: die ;” at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his
hand to kill me. ' .
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be able to
describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean that even while it was
a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any more possible to describe
the impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was but
a dream. ' ' .
I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the good instruction
of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with none but such as were, like myself,
wicked and profane to the last degree. do not remember that I had, in all that time,
one thought that so much as tended‘either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards
towards a reection upon my own ways ; but a certain‘ stupidity of soul, without desire
of good, or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that, the
most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors can be
supposed to be—not having the least sense, either of the fear of God in dangers, or‘
of thankfulness to God in deliverance-s.
In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more easily believed
when I shall add, that through all the ‘variety of miseries that had to this day befallen
me, I never had so much as one thought of its being the hand of God, or that it was
a just punishment for my sins—my rebellious behaviour against my father—-or my
present sins, which were great—or so much as a punishment for the general course of
my wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of
Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what would become of me, or one
wish to God to direct me whither ,I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel savages ; but I
was merely thoughtless of God or a Providence-J acted like a mere brute, from the
principles of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly
that. When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portugal captain, well used,
and dealt justly and honourably with, as wéll as charitably, I had not the least thank-
fulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of
drowning on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment. I
only said to myself often that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always
miserable. '
It is true, when I got on shore rst here, and found all my ship’s crew drowned,
and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstacy, and some transports of soul,
 
“It
1 nn fllltlf ?
 
 
ti thin gtnnn nt lilntl ntnintnth niight hntn nntnn tit) tn trnn thnnlttnlnnt ,
t it nntinn nltntn “ttttnn, in tnntn nnnitnnn hihlli iii lily? W’ 2% may will,” miw glad
l nnt tlitn, "itithnnt tlitn lnntt tntlnntinn ninth lllil ilillllllllilihlllh hilildiliiill M hthinh hntl ntnnnttntl inn, nntl
tintflnd tnn nnt tn ht ntnnntnntl "
nhnn nll thn tntt nntn tlntttny tili
nt n, tnnnity nthy lttntitlnnnn
hnnn thnn tnntnifnl tn ,hiltttt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
{it} {tint
 
 
nnnttt it hit tn
 
 
A
hint thn ntnn nntnntnn nntt nf int” Willilll lmmlllill hhlwmllll limit Mwi lbw haw grim Emit
nthntn ttntn n thilitntnnlt, nll nhinh titty dmlili iii till “wt WWI‘ M Wmhi Midi fmgi
ltttnnt tn tnnn hit it in ntnt, nnti nll thn tnnt nt thy ttn nnt liltn litnn nhnn l ‘nth
‘tlttttnn, nn tlnn nnnnitintntinn tnntln tnntiltlt ml lllliliiiwt WW I Wm mm {m wig
tlttnedfnl nlnnn, nnt nt thn tnnnh nf hntnnnhindi mil iii ‘in mm ‘if mlif; W pmgmm M
lttlttnhtinni nit nnnn nt l nnn ptnhnhility nf litinn, nntl thnt l nhnnln nnt ntnttn nntl
llttinh tn hnngnn nil thn tnnnn nl' nty nillintinn nntn nil 51 will 1 MW“ m m w W WW’
aphlinl tntttnlt tn thn nntlt' ntnttnt int nit tttnnnttntinn and ttttltllllh illl‘i will my WWW
'ltntn hntnn nhlintn l nt nnntlitinn, nt n intlttnnnt ftntn llnntnn, nt nt thn hnntl nl
‘and nttnintt inn thnnn nntn thnnt'llltt Willilll will’ lililimm ‘imlimd mm my mm”
n
 
 
 
 
 
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had, at rst, some little
inuence upon me, and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it
had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was
removed, all the impression which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted
already. Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its nature,
or more immediately directing to the invisible Power which alone directs such things,
yet no sooner was the rst fright over but the impression it had made went off also.
I had no more sense of God, or His judgments—“much less of the present affliction
of my circumstances being from His hand—than if I had been in the most prosperous
condition of life. ‘But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the
miseries of death came to place itself before me ; when my spirits began to sink under
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever, conscience, that had slept so‘long, began to awake, and I began to reproach
myself with my past life, in which ‘I had so evidently,'by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with
me in so vindictive a manner. These reections oppressed me from, the second or
third day of my distemper; and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the
dreadful rleproaches of my conscience, extorted some words from me like praying to
God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with desires or with
hopes : it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My thoughts were confused,
the convictions great upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable
condition raised vapours into my head withathe mereapprehensions; and in these’
hurries of my soul, I knew not what my, tongue might express. But it was rather
exclamation, such as, “ Lord, what a miserable creature-am I! If I should be sick, I
shall certainly die for want of 'help, and what will become of me?” ' Then, the tears
burst out of .my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval, the
good advice of my father came to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I
mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz., that if I did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist me in my recovery. “ N ow,” said I
aloud, “my dear father’s words are come to pass ; God’s justice has overtaken me, and
I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein I might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing of it from my
parents. I left them to mourn over my-folly ; and now I am left to mourn under the
consequences-of it. I refused their help and assistance, who would have lifted me :into
the world, and would have made everything easy to me ; and now I have diiculties to
struggle with too great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help,
no comfort, no advice.” Then I cried out, “Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress.” This was the rst prayer, if I might-call it so, that I had made for many
years. But I return to my ]oumal-:--
jzme 28.--Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, and the t
being entirely off, I got up; and though the fright and terror of my dream was very
great, yet I considered that the t of the ague would return again the next day, and‘
I REFLECT 0N All’ [NC/8.4 TITUDE. o7
. ' now was my time to get something to refresh and support myself when I should be ill:
. tlndthe rst thing I did, I lled a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon
my table, in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the
Water, I put about a'quarter of a pint of turn into it, arid mixed them together. Then
Igot me a piece of the goat's esh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in
the sense of my miserable condition, dreading the‘ return of my distemper the next day. ‘
At night, I made my supper of three of the turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, -
11nd ate, as we call it, in the shell, and this was the rst bit of meat I had ever asked
God’s blessing to, even, as I could remember, in my whole life. ‘
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I could hardly
Carry the gun, for I never went out without that; so I went out but a‘ little way, and
Sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and
Very calm and smooth. As I sat here, some thoughts such as these occurred to me :—
“ ‘What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is it produced?
And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal?
VVhence are we? Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who formed the earth
and sea', the air and sky. And who is that P” Then it followed most naturallyé-“It is
God that has‘ made it all. Well, but then,” it came on strongly, “if God has made all
these things, He guides and governs them all, and all things that concern them ; for
The” Being that could make all things must certainly have power to guide and direct
‘them. If so', nothingcan happen, in the great circuit of His works, either without His
knowledge or appointment. '
‘
“And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I am here, and am
in this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has
a[Jpointed all this ‘to befall me.” Nothing occurred tol'n'iy thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions, and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force, that it
must needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to
this miserable circumstance by His direction, He having the sole 'power, not of me only,
but of everything that happened in the world. Immediately it followed-—“ Why has
A God done‘ this to me ?, What have I done to be thus used?” My conscience presently
Checked me in that inquiry,’ as if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me-
like a voice, “Wretch, dost t/mu ask what thou hast done‘? Look back upon a
readful misspe'nt life,’ and ask thyself, what thou hast not done ? Ask, why is it that
th011 wert not 'long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth
Reads? killed in'the ght, when the ship was taken by the Sallee mari-ofwar?
. devoured by the wild beasts off the coast of Africa? or drowned Izere, when all the’
crew perished but thyself? Dost t/zozz ask, ‘What have I done P’” I was struck dumb
Wlth these reflections, as one astonished, and had not a word to say—no, not to
anSwer to myself—but rose up pensive and'sad, walked back to my retreat, and went
up Over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but ‘my thoughts were sadly disturbed,
and I’ had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, j
for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the return of my distemper
‘ terried‘ me very much’, it occurred to my thought that the Brazilians take no’ physio
68 \ Rosmsozv C a USOE.
but their tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in
one of the chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was green, and not quite
cured. ~
I went, directed by Heaven,’ no doubt; for in this chest I found a cure both for
soul and body. I opened the chest, and found‘ what I looked for, viz., the tobacco;
and as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I
mentioned before, and which to this time I had not found leisure, or so much as
' _ inclination, to look into. I say I took it out, and brought both that and-the tobacco
with me to the table. What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my
distemper, or whether-it was good for it or no‘; but I tried several experiments with
it, as if I was resolved it should heal one way or other. I rst took a piece of leaf,
and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed, at rst, almost stupeed my brain, the
tobacco being green and strong, and that I had not been much used to it. Then 1
took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to .take a close of
it when I lay down; and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as the, virtue of
it, and I held it almost to suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I took up the
Bible, and began to read 3 but; my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco ’to
bear reading, ,at least at that time : only having opened” the book casually, the words
rst that occurred to me were these, “Call upon Me in the day of ' trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.” These words were veryiapt- to my case, and
made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so
much as they did afterwards 5 for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I
may say, to me : the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things,
that I began to say, as the children of Israel did when they were promised flesh to
eat, “Can God spread a table in the wilderness?” so I began to say, “Can God
Himself deliver me from this place?’? And as it. was not for many years that any
hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but, however, ,the words ' _
made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It grew now
.late, and the tobacco had, as'I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep :
so I left- my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and
went to bed. But before I lay down, I- did what I never had done in all my life: I
kneeled down, and prayed to God to full the promise to me, that if I called upon
Him .in the day of trouble, He would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which‘ was so-
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarcely get 'it down ; immediately
upon this I went to bed; and I found presently it ew ,up into ‘my head violently ;. I
but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily
be near'three o’clock in the afternoon I the next day 3 nay, to this hour I am partly of
opinion ‘that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
‘otherwise, I know not how I should lose a day out‘ of my reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after I had done ; for if I had lost it by crossing and
- re-crossing the line, I should have lost more, than one day ; but in my account it was
lost, and I never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or other, when I
 
 
 
,lttnnh njnnn my mind, hnt hi my ntnt
 
 
ntn ,
 
 
n
 
 
httnltni l tnnntl tnytnlt
1' tin l nnn tttntn
mil llt in hnttntt
 
 
ufhntl, tntl tny nphitt litnly nntl nhnntfnl ,1 nhnn
kt thnn l nnn thn tiny httntn, nntl ntjy ntntnnnh hnttnt, lint nnn
inn, ll'hnd nn thn llt it lint: nnntinnnti tnnnh nltntntl int thn
ttnt thn tnthi
3nth nth"; int n ll
dill; hf nnnt; ,, nntl l n, ant
hhtnntl with tiny n, hnt
filtl nnt t l'ttt“ tnttnl tnn
liltm l n‘l tn
ill’ h ttnnnthing hit it hntntl
thntn
 
 
fit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\
lltntlininn, whinh l. hlttfih
ti 'tlitl tnn '
 
 
;tl t in
 
 
; r nnly tlitl
tint tn tnnt: i hit hnlntn,
ll nhnn tiny nl thn
with nit hnltl nty htntil ntnt
mm tn nntt tiny,
pvt nil l'nly,
l htntnti thnnlti l tin
,5» int i inn
 
 
 
 
 
 
try nhinh tint/nit.
ill? nnn nil, thnnj'
n t tnttzntnt illtthi gth fnt nntnn ttnnl
nttnt, ltttftt thnt gnthtting g
thin iintintnt , l nill tinlittt t” ntttil llltl lllllll
nith nnnh thnnghtn it nnnnttnn tn tny" tintl thnt ill I
tintntl tnnnh n'jinn nty
litlltnntntn ttntn tlin ninth ntlllnttnn, thnt l tiittt ,nnlntl thn tlnlinntnnnn I may
 
 
 
 
>35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
y nty tl lit tnnnn lny
 
 
 
 
ttnnntnging ,
received, and I was, as it were, made to ask, myself such questions as these, viz.,
“Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most
distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me? and what notice
had I taken of it? Had I- done my part? God had delivered me, but I had not 1
gloried Him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a
deliverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance?” This touched my heart
very much; and immediately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud for my
recovery from my sickness. ‘ ’ .
fuly 4.——In the morning, I took the Bible ; and beginning at the New Testament,
I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every' morning
and every night; not tying myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this work, till I
found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life.
The impression of my dream revived; and the words, “All these things have not
brought thee to repentance,” ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially the very day that,
reading the Scripture, I came to these words : “ He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance and to give remission.” I threw down the book .; and with my heart
as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in~a kind of ecstacy of joy, I cried out aloud,
“Jesus, Thou Son of David! Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me
repentance!” This was the rst time I could say, in the true sense of the words,
that I prayed in all my life ; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true Scripture view of hope, founded on the encouragement of the Word of God ; and
from this time, I may say, I ‘began to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, “Call on Me, and I will
deliver thee,” in a di’erent sense from what I had ever done before ; for then I had no
notion of anything being called delz'oerarzre'but my being delivered from the captivity
I was in; for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly
a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world. But now I learned to take
, it in another sense; now I looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from
the load of guilt ‘that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing; I did not so mu'chas pray to be ‘delivered from it, or think of it ; it was all of.
no consideration, in comparison of this. And I added this part here,"to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things, they will nd
deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal :--
My condition began now to be,-though not less miserable as to my way of living,
yet much easier to my mind: and my thoughts being directed,,by a constant reading
the Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of
comfort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of ; also, my health and strength
returned, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that I wanted, and make
my way of living as regular as I could. '
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiey employed in walking about ‘with
\-
in‘
THE FERTJLE 5105 OF THE ISLAND. 71
my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a t of sickness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to
‘What weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was perfectly
new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it
to anyone to practise, by this experiment; and though it did carry off the t, yet
It rather contributed to weaken me ; for I ‘had frequent. convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time ; I learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to_ myhealth that could be, especially in
those rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain
Which came in a dry season was always most accompanied with such storms, so I
f0llnd this rain was much more dangerous than the 'rain which fell in September and
Oetober. ' ’
I had now been in this unhappy islan'd above tenmonths; all possibility of
deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and. I rmly
tielieved that nohuman shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured
ml‘ habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
Perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions I might nd, which
Yet I knew nothing of. '
It was the I 5th of July that I began to take a more particular survey of the
island itself. I went.up the creek rst, where, as. I hinted, I brought my rafts on
Shore. I found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
hi‘ether ; and that it was no=more than a little brook of running water, and very fresh
find good : but this being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some parts of
1t; at least, not enough to run in any stream, so as it could be perceived. On the banks
of this brook, I found many pleasant savannahs or_meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where the
Water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco,
green, and growing to a great and very strong stalk ; there were divers other plants,
which I had no notion of or understanding about, and might, perhaps, have virtues of
their own, which I could not nd out. I searched for the cassava root, which the
Indians in all that climate make their bread of, but I could nd none. I saw large
Plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but
Wild and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these discoveries
for this time, and came back, musing with myself what course I might take to know
the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits of plants which I should discover; but '
' Could bring it to no conclusion : for, in short, I had made so little observation while I
“118 in the Brazils, that I knew little of ‘the plants of the eld; at least, very little that
, mlght serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again ; and after going something
further than I had gone the day before, I found the brook and savannahs cease, and
the country became more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits, and
particularly I found melons upon the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon
the trees : the viries had spreadindeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were
Just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I
was at thaat ; hat was hy sapatisasa ta sat sparisgly at
thsat, tataaatharh. that, I was ashata is titathaty, tlrta aatiag at sasstai at has Iliihtg rash, aha wars thara, hy thtswiag thata has ti and
fssara that I! thaatl aaaallaat ass tat thasa graphs: aatii that was, ta stirs at day
 
 
mat
 
 
t sstsas t sat.
a.
thata is tha sad tlftsta tirtatil at taisias are hast, whiah it”
sass ha, as they tshalasaras sari as ta sat, tshaa as
assist alt that theta, sari wast vsat hash ta aty halithatiaa, whiah, hy tha
alright, I; has, laia hats hataa. is sight, Ti; taah
my first aaattisahaa, atttl as tats a ttss, whats slajst wall I; and, tha taatsiag
araaaat ' spas ray dissasary, asatly hart tittilss, as thighs jtttigs hy tha
at tha sahay, stilt aatth, with at hills as that saath anti
 
 
FRESH DISCO VERIES. 7 3
- north side of me. At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
Fountry seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which
‘Zsucd out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and
l
" Verdure, or ourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descended a
little on the side of that delicious valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
\ tholigh mixed with other alicting thoughts, to think that this was all my own ; that
IWIIS king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of possession;
‘ and, if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of
3- manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon, and
Citron-trees; but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the
' green limes that‘I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome ; and I
‘ mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool
and refreshing. I found now I had business enough to gather and carry home; and
‘resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish
' mYSelf for the wet season; which I knew was approaching. In order to do this, I
gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a
' gill-‘Ht parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few of each with me, _
trilvelled homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what
.Icollld make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three days in this
Journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) 5 but before I got
thither, the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the weight of the juice,
filling broken them and bruised them, they were good for little or nothing : as to the
hmes, they were good, but I could bring but a few. _ . _ '
The next day, being the 19th, I‘went back, having made me two small bags‘to
ring home my harvest; but I was surprised when, coming to my heap of grapes,
I ,Which were so rich and ne when I gathered them, I found them all spread abroad, ‘
trodden to pieces, and dragged about, ‘some here, some there, and abundance eaten
and devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts, which
had done this; but what they were I knew not. However, as I found there was no
laying them up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that 'one way they
‘would be destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight,
I tOOk another course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them-
_ upon the out branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun; and as
for'the lim‘es and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great pleasure the
e ‘Country appeared so fresh, so green, so ourishing, everythingbeing in a constant '
fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation; the security from'
.Stol'm on that side of the water, and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched
upon" a place to x my abode which was by.far the worst part of the country. Upon
the.Whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and ‘to look out for a
place equally safe as where now I was situate,'if possible, in-that pleasant, fruitful
part Of the island. ' I
This thought ran long ‘in my head, and I was exceeding fond of it for some time,
“the pleasantness of the place tempting me ; but when I came to a nearer view of it, I
I
considered that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible-that some-
thing might happen to my advantage: and that the same ill fate that brought me
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such- thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself
among the hills and woods in the centre of the island was to anticipate my bondage,.
and to render such an a‘air not only improbable, but impossible ; and that therefore I
ought not by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured with this place
that I spent much of my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of July;
and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved as above not to remove, yet I built me
a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a
double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and lled between with brush-
wood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always
going over it with a ladder as before ; so that I fancied now I had my country house
and my sea-coast house ; and this work took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly nished my fence, and began to enjoy my labour, but the rains
came on, and made me stick close to my rst habitation ; for though I had made me
a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when
the rains were extraordinary. m ‘
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had nished my bower, and began to
enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly
dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to take them
down from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which followed
would have spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food ; for I had
above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all down,‘
and carried most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain; and from hence,
- which was the 14th of August, it rained more or less every day till the middle of
October, and sometimes so violently that I .could not stir out of my cave for several
days. -
In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my family; I had been
concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dead, andI heard no moretidings of her till, to my ‘astonishment, she came
home about the end of August, with three kittens. This was the more strange to me
because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it
was a quite different kind from our European cats ; but the- young cats were the same '
kind of house-breed as the old one ; and both my cats being females, I thought it very
strange. But from these three cats I afterwards came to be so pestered with éats, that
I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house
as much as possible.
- From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that I could not stir, and
was now very ,careful. not to be much wet. In this connement, I began to be
straitened for food: but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat; and the last
day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my
food was regulated thus :--I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the
t "l
 
 
 
 
. THE A NNIVERSAR y OF MY, SHIPWRECK. 7 5
' goat’s esh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had
“0 Vessel to boil or stew anything), and two or three of the turtle’s eggs for supper.
During this ‘connement in my cover by the rain, I worked daily two or three
hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it 'on towards one side, tillI came
to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond my fence
or Wall ,- and so I came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open ,' for, as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure ; whereas now,
I thought, I lay exposed, and yet I could not perceive that there was any living thing
to‘fear ; the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.
$610!. 3o.---I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing. I cast up
the notches on my post, and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-ve
days- I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to'God,
acknowledging His iighteous judgment upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy
onfIne through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve
0111'5, even till the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, nishing the day as I began it. I had all this time observed
no Sabbath-day, for as at rst I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had, after.
some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary
for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were; but now,
having cast up the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided
'lt into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though I found at the
find of my account I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my
mk began to fail me, and so I contented myself to use‘ it more sparingly, and to
Write down only the most remarkable events of my life, without continuing a daily
rmeruorandum of other things. _ '
The rainy season and the dry season began to now appear regular to me, and I
1Earned to divide them so as to provide for them accordingly; but I bought alLmy
eXperience before I had it, and this I am going to relate was one of the moist dis-
Couraging experiments that I made at all. "
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which I had so
sUrprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves; and I believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and, now I thought it a proper
time to sow it, after the rains, the sun being in his southern position, going from me.
Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with my wooden spade,
and dividing'it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually.
0'Ccurred to my thoughts that I would not sow “it all at rst, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed,
leaving about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
, 50, fqrinot one grain of that I sowed this time came to anything ; for the dry months
following, theearth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to
assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet season had come again, and
then it grew as if it had been newly sown. ‘Finding my rst seed did i not grow, which
I easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground, to
make another trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox ; and this, having the
rainy months of March and April to water it, sprang up- very pleasantly, and yielded a
very good crop ; but having part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I
had got, I had but a small quantity at last, my. whole crop not amounting to above half _
a peck of each kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two seed-
times and two harvests every year. While this corn was growing I made a little
discovery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November, I made a visit up
the country to my bower, where, though I had not been some months, I found all
things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only
rm and entire, but the stakes which I had cut off of some trees that grew thereabouts
were all shot out and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually
shoots the rst year after lopping its‘ head. I could not tell what tree to call it 'that
the stakes were cut from. I was surprised, 'and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I could;
and it is scarcely credible how beautiful a gure they grew into, in three years ; so that
though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-ve yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufcient
to lodge under all the dry season. This'made me resolve to cut some more stakes,
and make me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my rst
dwelling), which I did ; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my rst fence, they grew presently, and were at rst a ne cover
to my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its
order. 1 l
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided; not into
summer and winter,‘ as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons,
which were generally thus :— - _
The half of February, the whole of March, and the half of April—rainy, the sun
being then on or near the equinox. \
, The half of April, the whole of May,’ June, and July, and the half of August—dry,
the sun'being then to the north of the line. ' ~
The lialf of August, the whole of September, and the half of October—rainy, the
sun being then come back.
The half of October, the whole of November, December, and January, and the half
of F ebruary—dry, the sun being then to the south of the ,line. 'I ‘
The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or ‘shorter as the winds happened to
blow, but this was the general observation I made. After I had found, by experience,
the ill consequencelof being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with
provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out, and I sat within doors ‘
' as much as possible during the wet months‘. In this time I found much employment,
and very suitable also to the time, for I found great occasion of many things which I
had no way‘ to furnish myself with but by hard labour and constant application;
 
 
 
 
2e’
 
 
 
 
2y", I tried many arys he may a a ha itetf, hut "he twigs iv maid
‘ purpua garnered so twirl; ta tliry tfitiiti tin 'inathitfr. It p rived hf assailant
aritantaje in the new that when I was hay" used ta take great; deiiglritia standing;
baaktgtmmgirrert, in the raw airy father tiered, tn ate them malt their
 
 
 
 
 
Wtitkervware; and being, as hays nauaily are, very t‘fitflittii ta help, arid at great ittteewet“
‘tithe manner haw they warked ‘these things, and. sometimes lent a hand, had this
a an fail kaawiedge hf the methane of it, that I wanted nathing hat the» ateriais;
wtlthit same irate myraind that the twigs of that he faint what/nae II ant my stakes
area might possibly be as tough as. the sallnwa, wilhawa, and heifers in England, and
litwtttkwd tn try, aaenrdingly, alert day I went in aauntry hearse, as I salted.
“tit mid hurting‘ af the smaller twigs, I inland; them. ta ray varrprise as marsh
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
could desire 3 whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down
a quantity, which I soon found, for there was a great plenty of them. These I set up
to dry within my circle of hedges, and when they were t for use, I carried them to my
cave 3 and here, during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I
could, a great many baskets; both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything, as I
had occasion; and though I did not nish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufcien'tly serviceable for my purpose 3 and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be
without them; and as my wicker—ware depayed, I made more, especially strong, deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it. . ,
Having mastered this difculty, and employed a world of time about it, I bestirred
myself to see, if possible, how to ‘supply two wants. I had no vessel to hold anything
that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of rum, and someglass
bottles—some of the common size, and bthers which were case-bottles, square, for the
holding of water, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a ‘pot to boil anything in, except
a great kettle, which I saved out'of the ship, and which was 'too big for such uses as
I desired it for-»-—v.iz., to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. ‘ The second
thing I fain would have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to make
one 3 however, I found a contrivance for that, too, at last. I employed myself in
planting my second row of stakes or piles, and _in~this wicker-work, all the summer or
dry season, when another business took me up more time than it could be imagined I
could spare. ‘ _
I mentioned before ‘that I had a great mind to see the whole island, and that I had
travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my bower, and where I had' an
openihg quite to the sea on the other side of the island. I now resolved to travel
quite across to the sea-shore on that side 3 so, taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog,
and a larger quantity of powder and shot than, usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a
- ‘great bunch of raisins in my pouch'for my store, I began my journey. When I had
passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to
the west, and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried land---whether an island or a
continent I could’not tell 3 but it lay very high, extending from the W. to the W.S.W.,
at a very great distance; by my guess, it could-not'be less than fteen or twenty
leagues off. _
‘ I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than that I knew
it must be part of America, and, as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited ‘by savages, where, if I should
have landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I
acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own and to believe
ordered everything for the best; I say-I quieted my mind’ with this,‘ and left alicting
myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered that if this land was the
Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between the
Spanish country and the Brazils, which were indeed the worst of savages; for
“A T ABLE IN THE PVILDERNESS.” 79 .
they are cannibais, and fail not'to murder and devour all the human bodies that
fall into their hands. . '
With these considerations, I walked very leisurely forward. I found that side of
the island where I now was much pleasanter than’mine—-the open or savannah elds
sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very ne woods. I saw abundance
of Parrots, and fain would I have caught cine, if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
' and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot, for
Ikflocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home; but it
was Some years before I could make him speak ; however, at last, I taught him to call
me by my name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though it be a trie,
will be very diverting in its place. - '
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low grounds hares
(as I thought them to be) and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds
had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several. But
I had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good, too, especially these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise, which,
fldded to my grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a table better than I,
In Proportion to the company ; and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had
great cause for thankfulness that I was not driven to any extremities for food, but had
rather plenty, even to dainties. ' _
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day, or thereabouts ;
ut I took so many turns and returns to see what discoveries I could make, that I
cattle weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for all ‘night ; and then ,
5[ either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright
“1 the ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come
at me without waking me. As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was surprised to see
that I- had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island, for here, indeed, the shore
We covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three
“1 a year and a half. Here was also an innite number of fowls of many kinds, some
Ofwhich I had not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called ‘penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was :verysparing of my powder and
Shot: and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better
~ feed 011; and though there were many goats here, more than on the other side of the
lslimd, yet it was with much more difficulty that I could come near them, the country
time at and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills. _
I Confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine; but yet I had
not the least inclination to remove, for as I was xed in my habitation it became
ntttural to me, and I seemed all. the while I was here to be as it were upon a journey,
and'ftom home. However, I travelled along the shore of the sea towards the east, 1'
Suppose about twelve miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
‘mark, I‘concluded I would go home again, and that the next journey I took should
e 0“ the other side of the‘island east from my dwelling, and so round ‘till I
tame to my post again, of which in its place. '
8m WWWM 6%?
 
 
I mmk mwakmr way ta} WW5: mm mm that wmm I {gr/mm map
Mi 2% mmirzh in "my Mimic T WM; mm miimggi my wmiixf‘xgg; W
vimwimg mmimy ;; hm I {Mimi mymf mimmm m mmm l‘f‘imil mm m Harm‘:
m iimm a 'V‘fy Wiifjly hm w
' aa'mmmmim with liiilig :md WWW
him miwmd with WWW? mmhii mm é“: li‘lii’l‘ih Wm my
hy' my dimsfmim, hm mm
M mm? ‘mm mm mmma
kmw WW, m pil‘iti
mi” Hm @mx tfé‘mi; tim mi“ Mm
w my mam
Uiffwmmg MW Mammy
ZTMWQLWi if} {Mr m {mm
aw Mxihza 'Wfi in W113i???
and mat @i‘é rm
mm? I zziiémrc: "army mm“
Migmi m mt lm Mmk {my ‘my l‘jivélig, .émii ilimliii“ mm
game}: wmt; I; mm My may
jimmmygg mmw Ewmwm% m Wiithéf
"mtg and my mnmw
mitimm mmifmizg wmr Wm?
Imzwym
In, jammy aimg mmf'iwd ymmg Miami Wm m and TI
ramming“ in m mm»; ma mi" it? mmght 3%
and wwd it MW {mm aim {img% 1 m6.
a gmm mimf‘i m Ming harm: if Qwid,
mwm w W» W% {m hm mfmyn mm wifmmm tit:
mm m gmrzaibm a kid, w ‘W?
and m méw bmd mf tame: gmm "whim ‘might mmzly m Whm Wwdm and mm
lmmmi 13%? 51mm 1 mmm :21 aazwlllm m mmmm with a, mring “whim I
mi’ mmv mpwymm, Whih mwzaw mzrim Mmm 1 Mai ammgr, thmgfh with
mmr dif’imity, will mm% w my hiwfy and 11mm mmiamwi‘ him and m; £011“
1 Wm. WW mmgxzzximt m m m hmmm {mm Wmmm I m bwzn WWW Mmw 'mmnith;
I ammm mpmw What a, Wmmm it Wag m my mmm mm might? and
15m mwm in ‘immmmkmhm, “Tiihix litiif Wwdmmg' jmwmy wiwizmm mam Warm: M
m1 mm m wplmmm m my mwm hwymg M II’. miimd it: w“ mywii; W
a" Wrfmt mmI/mmm m m? mmgmw m that 5; and it mmdmd Wrwhimg Mmm mm m
mmwmhm mm 1 mwwmi I WWW WWI‘ gm 3“, gram WW {mm it Maxim mm 1% my 2m am may“ {3% 5m 531mm” 6
THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY. 8 r
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my long journey;
during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage
[of my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
.“Ilth me. Then I began to think of the poor kid which I had pent in within my little
Clrcle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some food ; accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it, for indeed it could not get out, but was almost starved for
Want of food. .I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I'
Could nd,‘ and threw them over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
Way 3 but it was so tame with being hungry that I had no need to have tied it, for
It followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving,
SO gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one of my domestics also, and
W0Llld never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I kept the 30th of
September in the same solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my landing
on the island, having now been there for two years, and no more prospect of being
delivered than the rst day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of the many wbnderful mercies which my solitary condition
was attended with, and without which it might have been innitely more miserable.
_I gave humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me that
1l'Was possible I might be more happy in this solitary condition than I should have
been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of .the world : that He could fully
make up toime the deciencies of my solitary state, and the want of human society,
by His presence, and the communication of His grace to my soul ; supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon His providence here, and hope for
HiS eternal presence hereafter. ' '
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the life I now led
._W$, with all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I.
ied all the past part of my days ; and now having changed both my sorrows and my
Joys, my verydesires altered, my affections changed their gusts, and my delights were
Perfectly new from what they were at rst coming, or, indeed, for the two years past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the country, the
l anguish. of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and my
Very heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I
was in, and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the greatest
Composures of my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm, and make me
‘wring my hands, and weep like a. child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of
my Work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for
an hour or two‘ together; and this was still worse to me, for if I could burst out into
tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief having exhausted itself
WQuld abate. '
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts. I daily read the Word of
God, and applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning, being very
Sad: I opened the Bible upon these words, “ I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.”
6
Immediately it occurred that these words were to me 3 why else should they be
directed in such a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my con-
dition, as one forsaken of God and man? “Well, then,” said I, “if God does not
forsake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or ,what matters it, though the world
should all forsake me, seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the world, and should
lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no comparison in the loss?”
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was possible- for me to
be more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever
have been in any other particular state in the world 3 and with this thought I was
going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know not what it was,
but something shocked my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words.
“How canst thou become such a hypocrite,” said I, even audibly, “to pretend to be
thankful for a condition which, however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with,
thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from?” So I stopped there; but
though I could not say I thanked God for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to
God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened
the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed God for directing ‘my friend
in England, without any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for
assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and though I have
not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account of my works this year as
the rst, yet in general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle, but having‘
regularly divided my time according to several daily employments that were before
me, such, as, rst, my duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly
set apart some time for, thrice every day 3 secondly, the going abroad with my gun for '
food, which generally took up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain;
thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught for
my supply: these took up great part of the day; also, it is to be considered that in
the middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too
great to stir out 3 so that about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be
supposed, to work in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of
hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in
the afternoon. '
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the exceeding
laboriousness of my work; the many hours which for want of tools, want of help, and
want of skill, everything I did took up out of my time: for example, I was full two-
and¢forty ‘days in making a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit, would have out six of them out
' of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this : it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down, because my
board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three days a-cutting down, and two
more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With
inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips till it‘
MA 12.4 UDERS. - 8 3
begen'to be light enough to move 5 then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
I and at as a board from end to end 5 then turning that side downward, cut the other
Side till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Anyone may judge the labour of my handsin such a piece of work; but labour and
Patience carried me through that, and. many other things 5 I only observe this in
Particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work,
viz‘! that what might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour and
required a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with
Patience and labour, I went through many things, and indeed everything that my
circtlmstances made necessary to me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my crop of barley
ahd rice. The ground I had manured or dug up for them was not great 5 for, as I
Observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost
one whole crop by sowing Kin the dry season :, but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep from it; as, rst, the goats, and wild
creatures which I called hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the- blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot
“P into stalk. , ‘ '
This I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure about it with a hedge, .which
I did with a great deal of toil, and the more because it required a great deal of speed;
the creatures daily spoiling my corn. However, as my arable land was‘but small,
Suited to my crop, I got it totally well. fenced in about three weeks’ time; and shooting
80the of the creatures in ‘the day-time, I set my dog to guard it ‘in the night, tying him
“P to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark, all night long 5 so in a little
t1the‘ the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well, and
egen to ripen apace.
But as the beasts. ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade, so the birds
were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for going along by‘ the place
to See howitthrove, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls, of I know not how
many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
y among them, for I always hadmy gun with me. I had no sooner shot but there
I ‘rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself.
. * This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they would devour all
my hopes; that I should be,starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and what ,
to do I could not tell 5 however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
‘Should watch it night and day. In the rst place, I went among it, to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it ; but that as it
was-Yet too green for them, the loss was pot so great but the remainder was likely to
. 'Sittin
e 8' 800d crop, if it could be saved. ..
~ .I ‘stayed by -it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could easily see the thieves
g Upon all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the
event Proved it to be so 5, for as I walked off, as if I was‘ gone, I was nosooner out of
’ ' “ t eh‘ Sightbut they dropped down one by one into the corn again. ' I was so provoked
KMWXMUW
 
 
tmt amid mt Mm patimm m May an mmw mxfm m? mmvimg ma Wary grain that
lbw am WW Wm? am "it might t Wmwmm m m in m mmmqumm 5 but
mining‘ up w hrdgm wzjza again? :zmcl Mimi r‘ww M 11mm Whig Wm; Wm 'W'if‘iWfid {m j;
w mmk
mm mgiiaj Mai
wwm Mrmm
2m ‘W fi’mf’
22 maximum?
thiwm m
111 a.‘ m {1%
Wm? mngrd
12 11  m i m
mgcxim {m :1
rxwr Km
mm, M215,
mfzgmmibl?
m imagim:
aimmt Mia mm; MW Emil
x'mxh m fffmt as; it hmih {my Mm
fmwil WWW mt mm}? mm: ill‘mii‘ m;
mm? Wm in mm fmmmk
£11} mii M Wm Mzmd, am; I mmm,
WWW a mm mm m m; mm; W
my §5£mWiWi9W§i Mimgwifmm ‘Thi 1 WM wry
My Wu may 12mm md MZWHTZ {2%
1mm nd M Immmmm Wifziah Wm Mimi?" gamma} hawim
m m Wm; m3; awn‘
I Wm Wm M it my :1, mm m mam: m aim.
it; dawn, mm m {3mm ww m 2mm’: mmzrg 2% WM
a1“; mum mt? wit” M m bramdmwmdy m mwma
I wwgd zmm {mm Wk mi Mm amp,‘ IMW
awry % my “amp mt mmh Ewi m; gnaw m mi; dwwm 3; in mm WWW it: in. my way‘,
fm I mt nmhig m” iimt Mm Wm, mam myriad it away
in :1 girm'ts bwmt whim ma mmm, and’ w rubmci
it‘ mm with my 211mm 1;, and; m th: md 155% M1 mirwimimg, I fwmi that mm mi my Imipwk M md
E hm mm Wm 'bmhwm M rim; and, mmw Wm mmmm wi a half mi” hmiaay I; that: i3»
m may, my gww, {my mm} m mwmmm m: mm timm
Hmwmm W255; WW % gram wmmmgwmm m and I fmmggm that in timiw ii
“Wmld plmm (irmi m WWW m@ with brwd : and mm 1 Wm pmpimmi gain, My’ 3;
mithm kmw hmw m grind mt" mam mmi M my £30m? m imiwd hmw 1m mmm it MM
pm it ,7; away if mam mm mm}, hmiw m mm hmmd M and hww w mam it" gym
 
 
H 2 www MQMJW‘“
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘2h Wheat it waa gtewiag, at gtaea, hate ehaettetl;
heath Oat/teat whee
knew’ eat heat ta haha it. Theee heiag added he ate aeeite ef haeieg a ghee
qheatity fat atere, aha te aeeate a eeaetaat aapely, I" teaateed aet ta taete aay at thia
time hat tie pteeetee it ah the eeett agaiaet the heat eeaaea ; and, ia the mean time, t‘e
etttpiay all thy atetly aeti heath at atethiag te aeeaatpliah thie great week at eteeitlieg
mt’eeif with heat aha hteath
It height he ttaly eaia that heat eathea the ray hteaa. It ta Kittie weaaetfat,
$11141 What I helieee the peepie hate thaaght taaeh apea, ate, the attaage tealtitatie at
thiege aeeeaaaty ia the pteetaieg, ptedaataga, eatiegi, ereaaiag, taaltiag, aha
iahiag thie eee attiele hf hteadw
that wae teaaeetl ta a there atate at aatete, teaatl. thia ta my tiatty diaeeatagee
“with aha wee made ttttattt aha there eeaaihle at it
were heat, eeea after If had get the heat haadfat ’”
M aeeaeeeta, tehiah, ae I hate eaiti, eatae up he“
Withatedly, aha iedeed th e aatpttae.
Feet, 1‘ had he pleagh ta tata he the eatth; are
hitatle at eheeel ta tit?’ til, ea ll eaaaaeted
if tttahiag the a 'aeadea apatte, aa ahaeteeti; he
with hat thia ate my teeth hat ia a weedea ataattet ;;
time; theegh it eeet tee a gteat ataae ta reahe
like yet tat ataat at itea it eat ehly' eate eat the
iéiil‘titFtett hat teeth the hattiet, had made
m be ytett'etatea araeh teetae, liteeeeet, I
teeth with the, aha 'ataa eeateat te week it eat with
Phtieaee, aha heat with the hattaeae at‘ the pee
ittt‘t’t‘thl’th... “thfhea the hate eaa aeea, li he
militate, hat eaa thread ta ge heat it tayeelt, aha ateat heaey heagh hf a ttee heat it, ta aetateh
1h he it may he ealtea, tathet thee take at hattete
W
 
 
' l~ é
, i
, E
aheaay hate ‘ataey thiage eaatett ta team it,
Where it, thew at that”) it, hate aad eatty it hatae, ,, 2 WWW
mmth, patt tit heat the ehaft; aha aaee it ‘Thea i I ( eat
Wiimed a tail}; ta gated; it, ateeea ta dteae it, yeaat
“and aalt ta taahe it tetra hteatl, aati aa aeea ta haha it ie had all theae thiage
 
7 A? w I M I 4'“ Q a, i y i '
' tit/ti tettheut, ae ahali he ehaeteedt aeti yet the here teaa are taeatttaahte eetefett,
41;
‘gm aeaaatage th the tea hat thia, aa 17 tea, made eeetythtagi iahetieaa aatl
lihllieaa ta ; hat that theta watt he hale the; aeithet etaa time he taeeh laaa ta
met heeaaee, ea ll‘, heat ateaea it, a eettaia part at it wee eeety day aepaiatea ta theee
“teatha ,; aha ea had teaelteti ta "ate eeae at” the hate the hteati till I had a giteatet
‘Quantity he the, had the heat taeathe ta atyeelf ahellg'y, hy iahaat aatl
iiitteatiea, ta ftttttieit thee/elf with ateaaila etepet the the eetfettaiaa; all the ettetatiaae
2‘We’?*teaatry tat tttahieg the hate, whee i had it, fit fat they meet "
hat heat teat te etepate atete iaati, fat had haw eeett eeeaaih te aee' aheee ea
amt‘ M ateaae. thet'ate i eat thte, had a wealth teeth at teaat tie etahe the a eeaae,
which, when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very- heavy, and required
double labour to work with it. However, I went through that, and sowed my seed in‘
two large at pieces of ground, as near my house as I could nd them to my mind, and’
fenced them in 'with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of .that wood
which I had set before, which I knew would grow 3 so that in one year’s time I knew I i
should have a quick or living hedge that would want but little repair. This work was
not so little as to take me up less than three months, because great part of that time
was- of the wet season, when I could not go' abroad. Within-door--that is, when it
rained and I could not go out--1 found'employment in the following'occupations,
always observing that all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot, and teaching him to speak 3 and I quickly learnt him to know his own name,
and at last to speak it out pretty loud—“Poll,” which was the rst word I ever heard
spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not my work,
but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon rriy
hands, as follows—viz., I had long studied, by some means or other, to make myself “
some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew not'where to come at
them. Howevenconsidering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could
nd out any clay, I might botch up some such pot as might, being dried by the‘ sun,
be hard enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything that was
dry and ‘required to be kept so 3iand as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal,
&c., which'was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as ‘I could,
and t only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them. ~
It would make ‘the reader pity me, or rather' laugh at me, to tell how many‘
awkward ways I took to raise this paste 3 what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out----the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being
' set out 'too hastily; and how many fell to pieces with only removing, as well before
as after they were dried 3 and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to nd
the clay---to dig it, to temper it, to'bring it home, and work it—-I could not make
above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars) inabout two months’
labour. _ ‘
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted them very gently
up, and set them down again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, ‘that they might not break; and as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare,‘ I stuffed it full ‘of the rice and barley
straw; and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though‘ I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made several
smaller things. with better success, such as little round pots, at dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and anything my hand turned to, and the heat of the sun baked
them strangely hard. 7
But all this would not answer, my end, which was to get an earthen pot to
hold what was liquid and bear the re, which none of thesa could do. It‘ I ‘
happened after some time, making a pretty large re for cooking my meat, when
If jhfaane .soana IElaarvazvvnzasns.
I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one-
Of my earthenware vessels in the re, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a
the I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to myself that certainly they
m'ght be made to burn whole if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire so as to make it burn me some
Pots- I had no notion of a kiln such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
With lead, though I had some lead'to do it with; but I placed three large pip‘
kills and ,two or three pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed my rewood
all round it, with a great heap of embers under them. I plied the re with
frell fuel round the outside and .upon the top till I saw the pots in the inside
re1d-hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all. When I saw
them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about ve or six hours, till I
f(hind one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the. sand
‘ Which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat, and would
have run into glass if I had gone on; so I slacked my re graduallytill the
Dots began to abate of the red colour, and watching them all ‘night, that-I might
not let the re abate too fast, in the morning 'I had three very good (I will not
Say handsome) pipkins and two other earthen pots as hard burnt as could be
desired, and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this! experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthenware
1:01‘ my use; but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were very
Indifferent, as anyone may suppose, when I had no way of making them but
118 the children make dirt ‘pics, or as a woman would make pies that never
learned to raise paste. - - -
N0 joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to' mine when I
. fottnd I had made an earthen pot that would beartthe re, and I had hardly
Patience to stay till they were cold before I set one on the re again, with some
Water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well 5 and with a
Pteeerof a kid'I made some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and
Several other ingredients requisite to make it as good as I would have had it.
My next concern was- to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some com
I 1n; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
With one pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great loss, for, of all
‘the trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualied for a stone¢cutter as for
I spent manya day’
to nd out a great stone big enough to cut hollow and make t for a mortar,
‘thy whatever, neither had I any tools to go about it with.
and Could nd none at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had
no Way to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of hardness
sufcient, but were all of a sandy, crumbling stone, which would neither bear
the Weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without lling it with‘
So, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it‘
Send.
twat‘, and resolved to look out a great block of hard wood, which I found,
Indeed, much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded-
1t and formed it on the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the
p
.87-
help of re and innite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of
the wood called the ironwood; and this I prepared and laid by against I had
my next crop of corn, which. I proposed to myself .to grind, or rather pound
my corn or meal, to make my bread. I
My next difiiculty was to make a sieve, or sierce, to dress my meal, and to part it
from the bran and husk; without which I did 'not see it possible I could have any
bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much as but to think on ; for to be sure I
had nothing like the necessary things to make it with—I mean time thin canvas, or
stuff to sierce. the meal through. And here I was at a full stop fpf many months, nor
did I really know what to do. Linen I had none left but whathvasi’tjnere rags. I had
goats’-hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it; and/ha, I known how, here
were no tools to work it with. All the remedy that I found for’this was, that at last I
did remember I had, among the seamen’s clothes which were saved out of the ship,
some neckeloths of calico or muslinyand with some pieces of these I made three
small sieves, but proper enough for the work; and thus I made shift for some years.
How I did afterwards-I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should make'
bread when I came to have corn ; for, rst, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But for an
oven I was indeed in great pain. At. length I found out an experiment for that also,
which was this : I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep---that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I burned in the re
.as I had done the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a
great re upon the hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also. But I should not call them square. .
When the rewood was burned pretty much into embers, or live coals, I drew
_ them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it.all over, and there I let them lie till
the hearth was very hot; then, sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf dr
loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round
the outside of the pot to keep in and add to the heat 5- and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became, ‘in little time, a good pastry-
cook into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice.
Indeed, I made no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing I had,
except, the esh either of fowls or goats. -
It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most part of the third
year of my abode here ; for it is to be observed that, in the intervals of these things, I
had my new harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in its season,
and carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear in my large baskets
till I had time to rub it out, for I had no oor to thrash it on, or instrument to
thrash it with. - ,
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to build my barns
bigger. I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me
so much that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or
WM W 5mm?” %
mmm; immmwh mm; 1 WW rwylwd m {bgin m 11% it frwhfyf {@317 my mm WW
quiw WM: 3» gl‘irm WMM: ,2 $130 I mmm m W16: wiazxt qmmizy “Wmld ‘Em wiim {w
rm :1; Wm mm,‘ and w WW mt WW a’ WM”
, Ulmm m Wham, I fmmd that fart?’ mzm M W161 rim Ww mmfth mm
7mm I mum mmwm 3'‘ WM; 5% ,mwJL/vmi w ww MM tlw wm qmmiw WW}?
WW mm I WWW w 3mg in‘ WW5 that mm a qumimw Wwuld £12131}? pf’vidi rim Wi‘h
bmawdi wizm
 
WWW’? Kiwi?” mam *mzmzm E MAW” * M)“
M1 Zh while; mw Ww aiming?» mm m mm my mwghw mm may/W
timw Wm tm wwwm my iwd; whim I‘ had mm“; ‘fmm MW mhw mm M rm iiiimd;
a???‘ wag mt wihmm matmt wihm that 1 Wm mm hmm tmwy {Wk/ying that’ gmmg
km maiwmmd and m Mmhitmii mmfwm Wm nd wwzw WW 11%: mhm m mnwy
mj‘fmif farthw and limmm @151 “mm mm mxm mmm M wmW»
Em an M3 whim I mam m nwa M m dmggm M swim mmimm and
WW I might {1% MW 2% mi‘ mmw, M61 Wmw with w; I might MW wwwm m
mam far WWW hm m 1mm and 'tigm 4% Afriw» mm if 1 wnm mmw mm mm? WWW
I‘ ahmid mm & hmmd mam mm a thmmmi m we mfmimgg‘ MUM, and; WWMW M
Ming‘, mtw 3; fm hm hmwd that im pmpm 0%” m Czxmribmm maxim Wm mmnikmgg
mi Wmmtwm, and I kmw My Hm latémd If WW6} mm hm m,“ 0%’ {mm hw
that gmwm Hwy "mm mm {:mmimm m1: kill 11% gm Immy mwpmm WM 7
{mm mm ih’i mm hymn Wrwd? mm Wiwn mw Md Wm Wm M WWW
mgwmr/Wmwh mmm I, that": Wm km mwm and‘ mum mam mm m mm viif‘. ME
tmm: thimégif, I m% mm might 1% haw mmdwm WW M; and am mat up in my‘
thgm‘ghm Mmmmmy Wt maa up mm M my Mmmhmmimm; ‘rm? and; my hmd mm
mggggmily Wm“ {ha mmgm mt" gmtimg wwgr m that mama
Maw, I Wmmd {w am?’ My and Mm 143%’ mm 32m ghmmwwmmmm
mil, with whim 1 mm mm thmwamd miig: mm Hm mam mf Afrim; 13m “13% Ww in
vain. Then I thought I would go and look at our ship’s boat, which, as I have said,
was blown up upon the shore a great way in the storm when we were rst cast away.
She lay almost where she did at rst, but not quite, ‘and was turned, by the force qf.
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward against the high ridge of beachy,
rough sand, but no water about her as before: If I had had hands to have retted»
her, and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough 3 but I might have
easily foreseen that I could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom
than I could remove the island. However, I went to the wood, and cut levers and
rollers, and brought them to the boat 3 resolved to try what I could‘do, suggesting to
myself that if I could but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage she had
received, and she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three or
four weeks about it. At last, nding it impossible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, .
setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under it, much
less to move it forward towards the water 3 so I was forced to give it over; and yet,
_ though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over for the main in-
creased, rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. _
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make myself a
canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates make, even without tools, or,
as I might say, without hands—“viz., of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely with my thoughts of making
it, and with my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians 3 but not at all considering the particular inconveniences which I lay under
more than the Indians did—viz., want of hands to move it into the water when it was
made, a difculty much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want
of tools could be to them. For what was it to me that when I had chosen a vast tree
in the wood, I might with rent trouble cut it down, if after I might be able with my
tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of ‘a boat, and burn or cut out
the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it—if, after all this, I must leave
- it just there where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the water?
One would have thought I could not have had the least reection upon my
mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, but I should have im-
mediately thought how I should get it into the sea 3 but my thoughts were so intent
upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never once considered how I should get it.
off the land; andit was really, in its own nature, more eas for me to guide it over
‘forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-ve fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it aoat
in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did, who had any
of his senses awake. I'pleased myself with the design, without determining whether I .
was ever able to undertake it 3 not but thatthe difculty of. launching my boat came
often into my head; but I put a stop to my inquiries into it, by this foolish answer
I MAKE A CANOE. 91
which I gave myself: “ Let me rst make it; I warrant I shall nd some way or other
to get it along when it is done.” _
This was a most‘ preposterous method; but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed,
and to work I went, and felled a ‘cedar-tree. I question much whether Solomon ever
had such a one for the building the Temple at Jerusalem 5 it was ve feet ten inches
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at
the end of twenty-two feet; after which it lessened for a while, and then parted into
branches. It was not without innite labour that I felled' this tree. I was twenty
days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through
with my axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour; after this, it cost me a month to
' shttpe it and dub it to a proportion,-a'nd‘to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to clear the
inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it 5 this I did, indeed, without
1'e,.by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to
he a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and
Consequently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo. ‘ '
When I had gone through this ‘work, I was extremely delighted with it. 'The
heat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was made
of‘ one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure—~for
there remained nothing but to get it into the water 5 and had I gotten it into the
Water, I make no question but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and the
most unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
i But all my devices to get it into the water failed me 5 though they cost innite
' ‘labour too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water, and not more 5 but
. the rst inconvenience was, it was up-hill towards the creek. Well, to take away
this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make
a declivity. This I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains (but who
i, grudge pains that have their deliverance in view P); but when this was worked’
through, and this difculty managed, it was still much at one, for I could no more
stir the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
ground, and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, ,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I ,began this work 5
and when I began to enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to be ‘dug,
hQW“ broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found that, by the numbertof
hands I had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years
before I could have gone through with it; for the shore lay so ‘high that at'the
upper end it must have beeri at least twenty feet deep 5 so at length, though with
great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
_ This grieved me heartily; and, now I saw, though too late, the folly of begin-
mhg a work-before we count the cost,‘and before we judge rightly of our ow
Strength to go through with it. , r ‘
In the middle of this'work I nished my fourth year in this place, and kept
my anniversary with the same devotion, and with as much comfort as ever before 5
for, by a constant study and serious application of the Word of God, and by the
assistance of His grace, I gained- a different knowledge from what I had before.
I entertained different notions of things. I looked now upon the world as a thing
remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no
desires about; in a word, I had nothing indeed~to do with it, nor was ever likely
to have. So I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, via,
as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I say, as
Father Abraham to Dives, “.Between me and thee is a great gulf xed.”
In the rst place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the world here; I
had neither the lust of the esh, the lust of “the eye, nor the pride of life. I had
nothing ‘to covet, for“ I had all I was now capable of enjoying; I was lord of the
whole manor; or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the whole
country which I had possession of. There were no rivals; I had no competitor,
none to dispute sovereignty or command with me. I might have raised ship-
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought
enough for my occasion. I had tortoises or turtles enough, but now and then one
was as much as I could put to any 'use. I had timber enough to have built a
eet of ships; and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that eet .when it had been built;
‘ But all I could make use of was all that was valuable; I had enough to eat
and to supply my wants, and what was all the rest to me? If I killed more esh
than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin; if I sowed more com than
I could eat, it must be spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on
the ground; I could make no more use of them than for fuel, and that I had no
occasion for but to dress my food.
In a-word, the ‘nature and experience of things dictated ‘to me,. upon just re-
ection, that all the good things of this world are no further good to us than they
are for our use‘; ‘and that, whatever we may heap up indeed to give others, we
enjoy as ‘much as we can use, and no more. The most covetous, griping miser
in the world would have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in
my case ; for I possessed innitely more than I knew what to do with. I ‘had no
room for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they were but trifles,
though, indeed,_of great use to me. I had, as‘ I hinted before, a parcel of money,
as well- gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty,
sorry, useless stuff-lay! I had no manner of business for it; and I often thought
with myself that I would'have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes ;
or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England,‘or for a handful of peas and
beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or
benet from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of
the cave in the wet seasons; and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds,
it had been the same case, they had been of no manner of value to me, because
of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was at
WW m; , 1
‘*2 "tiwm aim} 112% mpm
‘mmidm what; I M?”
mm giwm mm All my {iisie‘mw
‘hmkmimw my Whm ‘@WL‘ haw”
“53m? $25; ‘mm m mmgjmrqae my
hmm; ‘if KM Wad pmwidmw m”
1 1:1
 
 
Tmmwmmwagz %
m and mush ‘ wgimf
1% "my ‘minkd, M3 Wm M
m hmdywk I m
lim‘zmiy 51% 61mm m
"with izhzmkfmw
MW, ma} mmir 1% Kiwi’:
mm m md’s; wwiw
lm-{3% Maimh km mm;
i» in m
wildmmwm I; l :mfm
w 1mm mm Wan th?
might M my mm»
 
 
 
 
 
 
th dark 55m? mm m
 
 
@Wm mm mm
what I Wmmd; tmd g‘zw
rm mmmimw mum
liimmfmwgg that mmmm imm I; and W1; iqzh mm mmim 41%’ mm; in wt
mmw immmmd @2491 hi”: m
m M if, WM} mzmm WM
3%? wmfmt ably ‘What wd m
givm them mama/w thaw 'i‘
ma} mWM Wmwhimg th;>;2;t hr %
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wm ‘abmtm what ‘Wf Wmt; my
W» m m mm m w
wmmi
am mi"
 
 
mmmr mi w’ ‘a: mi’ gmfw
mm m m 1* mil dmmhim WWW
M w m mym {hm ahmmld {M};
WW mm dimmw w mim “mm;
 
 
 
i3‘??? mm: mmditimn wiih ‘ “what I at
m‘t mgfwkzimmd 2t wmd km ; my?
Wi Whakl it WWW; mmfmimly mw
331% L ‘1% ”T£'”1»%FEZ
W3;
" ‘Z i fiil’i’
 
 
mt Wmdmfmly mdamd
W‘ lliiib‘ m m mm up warm w ‘ ‘ ‘
Km wm ‘Whf I Wt @211}? mum errmmew m hm, hm zmmi Wing %m% )1 gm mutwf
~ hm” m 1cm sham fm my méf mi wmfmm; Withmm whiaxh I had Wémd {m tmla
1% Wmwkg Wwmw far dwfamm, and gwpw @6211" and gm m gaming my fwl»
 
 
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself, in' the
most lively colours, how I must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship;
How I could not have so much as got any food, except sh and turtles; and
that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must have perished rst 3 that
I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage 3 that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to ay or open it, or
part the-esh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it
with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast. ‘
These reections made me very 'sensible of the goodness of Providence to me,
and'very thankful for my present condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes;
and this part also I cannot but recommend to the reection of those) who are apt,
in their misery, to say, “Is any affliction like mine?” Let them consider how
much worse the cases of some people are, and their case might have been, if
Providence had thought t.
I had another reection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind with
hopes 3 and this was comparing my present situation with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. I had lived a
dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been
well instructed by father and mother; neither had they been wanting to me in
their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of
my duty, and what the nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas!
falling early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the
fear of God, though His terrors are always before them---I say, falling early into
the seafaring life, and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion which
I had entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened
despisingof dangers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to me; by my
long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but what
was like myself, or to hear anything of what wasgood, or ‘tended towards it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of .the least sense of what I
was, or was to be, ‘that, in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed~such as my escape
from Sallee; my being taken up by the Portuguese master of the ship 3 my being
planted so well in the Brazils'3 my receiving the cargo from England, and the like
—-I never once had the words, “Thank God l ” so much as on my mind, or in
my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much thoughts as‘to pray to
Him, or so much as to say, “Lord, have mercy upon me!” no, not to mention
the name of God, unless it_ was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reections 'upon my mind for many months, as I have already
observed, on the account of my ‘wicked and hardened life past; and when I
looked about me, and considered what particular providences had attended me
since my coming into this place, and how God had dealt boiintifully with me—
had not only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so
plentifully provided for me—this gave me great hopes that my repentance was
accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store for me. \
With these reections, I worked my mind up, not only to resignation to the
RESJGNED TO MY FA TE. 795
-will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition 5 and that I, who was yet a living man, ought not
to ‘complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins. That I enjoyed
80 many mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that place. That
I ought nevermore to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily
.thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought. That I ought to consider I, had been fed even by a miracle,‘even' as
great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens-“nay, by a long series of miracles. And
that I could hardly have named a place in the uninhabited part of the world i
where I could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I had
he society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no
furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life 5 no venomous creatures or poisonous,
which I might have fed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy
another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort but to be able to
make my sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition,
be my daily-consolation; and after I made a just improvement of these things,
I went. away, and was no .more sad. I had now been here so long, that many
things which I brought on shore. for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted and near spent. ' .
,My- ink, as I observed, had been gone some time, all but a very little, which
"I eked out with water, a little‘and a little, till it was so pale, it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to
minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable thing happened to
me; and rst, by casting up times past, I remembered that there was a strange
concurrence of days in the various providences which befell me, and which, if I
‘had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might
have hadreason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away from my father
and my friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day after-
wards I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave; the same day
Of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads,
I -that same day of the year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in a boat;
the same day of the year _I was born on—viz., the 20th of September—~the same
day I had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six,years after, when It- was cast
on shore in this island 5 so that my wicked life and solitary life began both on a day.
‘The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my bread---I mean the
biscuit which I brought‘ out of the ship. This I had husbanded to the last
degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet
I was quite without bread for a year before I got any ‘corn of my own; and
‘ great‘reason I- had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being,‘ as
has been already observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily; as to linen, I, had had none a
good while, except some chequered shirts‘ which I found in the chests of the
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved; because many times I could bear
no other clothes on but a shirt’; and it was a very great help to me that I. had,
among all the men’s clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There
were also several thick watch-coats of the seamen’s which were left behind, but
they were too hot to wear; and though it is true that the weather was so vio-
lently hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked-—
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not; nor could I abide the
thoughts of it, though I was all alone. One reason why I could not go naked
was, I could not bear the heat of the ‘sun so well when quite naked as with'
so'me clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with
‘ a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and, whistling under the shirt, was
twofold cooler than without 'it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out
in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of the sun, beating with
such violence as it does in that place, would give me the headache presently, by
darting so directly on my head, without a hat or cap on, so that I could not
bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the few rags I had,
which I called clothes, into some order. I had ‘worn out all the waistcoats I
had, and my business was now to_ try if I could not make jackets out of the
great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as Lhad;
so I set to work tailoring, or rather indeed botching, for I made most piteous
work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but a
. very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I killed--I mean
four-footed ones—and I had them hung up, stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and hard that they were t for little; but
others, it seems, were very useful. The rst thing I made of these was a great cap for
my head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain ; and this I_performed so
well that, after, I made me a suit of clothes wholly of those skins—that is to say, a
waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, and both loose; for they were rather
wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must notomit to acknowledge
that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a. bad carpenter, I was a worse
tailor. However, they were such,as I made a very good shift with, and when I
was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make an umbrella. I
was indeed in great want of one, and had a. great mind to make one. I had
seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the great heats
which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater too,
being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was
a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains at it, andwas a great while before I could make anything likely to
hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before ‘I
2V” w? W Cmmm; * W
m
mm m mind‘, 15m at mm 1 mmi mm mm mmwmm imizkmmly Mai};
lm miim difmity 1 {wind Wm‘ m it m m drawn“ mmh it;
hm; if’ it (Mi mm; m: dawn mm? and m WWW mm Wéfi’ {m any
iihm mmxlqi Mm in.
‘ my mimii Wing; mm
by mi??? Wm, M Mffidfih“
‘ Zif mum? mm
‘Wmmim, ‘Wmmfi aliigk ‘mmmxlély with” my awn
wmi'x my mm?
W; mm 7mm than film um
wjmymm; M human
WW m jmt 0W1? my ‘imzgmiw whim?» "WWW mm; (10* Hwwwm 2H: I midy I
mm mm m mwmd ‘2% mm ‘m hair Wwmdm gm ‘that it fwii
{W m min & pavmpwhmmm mm Wm M? that mm :m wfzattmjly um 1, WWW Walk
mm in 15W: mi’ {hm
km WWW mm Mam 1: MM
m”; M ‘31% mmld 412mm
and www mmiazr my
arm.‘
Thug; 1: liwzid migmy mmw
 
 
~ mi’ Wmiafmmm
Wimm i223? Whm I Eimgm
M? m Wéim‘il m mmw
WM; Wmzmr“ mm {:mmmfmg
mm I Emw
ijmmlmimm méi Wt£timmg
 
a
‘ Wmizty in 133% Wmm?
mgmmt WW mizxmty Mwr m‘ m1’ w Wmag, any mmmmiimry mm
m“ mm ism i liiwd mm in fl mmw {:mrm, in Hm maxim Wmmm and glam, jmk
m5‘ mfwm Qhiii‘f thing I Wm mgwym in, 11mm my WWW Maximum M Mam“
my UWW M61 xim, and, wring; my misimwmmf ‘twth I alwzzw mm up
,‘Wm ‘Qimmgh w ham/2: mmit fitiiik M ‘aim mam gvi’i hzizfmwhmadwi “ay,
‘mg’im 'mhmm and my daily Igmmw muff” Wing ‘mt with my gum I hm
‘ mm mmm, 11% {mm am: a, mm? Whiam at lm rm that?’ 1231' %
mml? m it 0f 'a‘iwflmt Wieim mail {my {m map, I it: mm m arming, Mmwgt
‘m1? a, ‘miilw Em Mr W Matty W m Wmy brig;w mawl it Withmm mm»
mdmim Wfwmmmi, I gm' w m, haw I hilmliii W3: MM m Immm. it, my mvm
MM m mm? it imam m wmm', m iizrimg 1km Wmw m it, I, mbgm m
‘If/‘2% it?‘ Wlimm it wag/1% 42m 2% mmwmmdmm m mmh m m WW2? m mm iimm
“Tmdwd, thw mwt tim Khwgh I mum, mt: gm, 2% t‘rw WWW {m it? Wm m
‘ V
a place where I could not get the water to it at any less distance than, as I have
Said, of near half a mile, yet, as‘ I-saw~ it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I was-near two years aboutjt, yet I never grudged my labour,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was nished, yet the size of it was not at
all answerable to the design which I had in view when I made the rst—I mean
of venturing over ‘to the fern: rma, where it was above forty miles broad. Ac-
cordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and
now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my. next design was to make a
tour round the island; for as I had been on the otherside in one place, cross-.
ing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made in
that journey made me very eager to see other’ parts of the coast 3 and now I had
a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the island. _
For this purpose, and that I might do everything with discretion and considera-
tion, I tted up a little mast in my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship’s sails which lay in store, and of which I had a great store
by me. Having tted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found she would
sail very well; then I made little locke'rs, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to
put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain
or the spray of the sea 3 and a little, long, hollow place I cut in the inside of the
boat, where I ‘could laymy gun, making a ap to hang down over it, to keep
it dry. ,
I xed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to stand,over my
. head, and keep the heat of ‘the sun off of me, like an awning. And thus I every
now and then took a little voyage upon'the sea 3 but never went far out, nor’ far
from the little creek. At last, being eager to view the circumference of my little
kingdom, I resolved upon my tour; and, accordingly I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley-
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of), a little
bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with shot for killing more, and two large
watch-coats (of those which, as I mentioned ‘before, I had saved but of the seamen’s
chests). These I took, one to lie upon, and the.other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity,
which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than
I expected; 'for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I came to
the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into
the sea-J-some above water, some under it 3 and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a'great way out to sea to
double that point. ' ' i ‘ - '
When I rst discovered them, I‘was going ‘to give over my enterprise, and
come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and,‘
above all, doubting how I should get back again 3 'so I came 'to‘an anchor; for I
had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I got out
of the ship. . ' . ~ . ' - I i
j V ENTURE OUT 1N My BOAT. 99
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climbing up a
hill which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and
resolved to venture.
, In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a strong and,
ihdeed, a most furious current, which ran to the east, and even came close to the
Point 5 and I took the more notice of it because I saw there might be some danger,
that when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and
not be able to make the island again. And, indeed, had I not got rst upon this
hill. I believe it would have been so, for .there was the same current on the other
tide of the island, only that it set off at a farther distance, and I saw there was
11 strong eddy under the shore 5 so I had nothing to do but to get out of the rst
Current, and I should presently be in an eddy. ‘
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind, blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E.,
and that being just contrary to the ‘current, made a great breach of the sea upon -
the point 5 so- that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the
breach, nor to go.too far off, because of the stream. ,
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight, the sea was
Calm, and I ventured. But I am a warning-piece to all rash and ignorant pilots,
for no sooner was I corrie to the point, when I 'was not even my boat’s length
from the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with itwith such violence that all
I Could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it 5 but I found it .
hurriedtme farther and farther out from the eddy, which “as on my left hand.
There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that I‘ could do with my paddles
Stghied nothing. And now I‘ began to give myself over for lost, for as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few leagues’ distance they
must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone 5 nor did I see any possibility
of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed,
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I" could lift, and had tossed it
Into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh watermj-that is to say, one of my
earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where,
to he sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island,‘ for a thousand leagues
at least? ‘
And now I saw ‘how easy it was for, the providence of God to make the‘
most miserable ‘condition that mankind could be in worse. Now I looked back'
ttpoh my desolate, solitary island as the most pleasant place in the world, and
all the" happiness my heart could wish for was to be there again.‘ I stretched
out my hands to it with eager wishes. “ 0 happy desert!” said I, “I shall never
See thee more. 0 miserable creature! whither am I going?” Then I reproached
myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined ‘at my solitary con-
dttton 3 and now what would I give to be on shore there again! Thus, we never
See the true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor‘
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It. is scarcely possible
[WWW/WW
,‘Wmmm
 
 
w
wiw‘m {mm my mhwmi mlmd
“i ' Mmmat Wm Mzzxgijmm
 
 
Hm mmgmmmim 1 “mg; MW 111% mm
I myggummd m MW m mm “kiwi wig
mm in Mm mmm Wm? M?’ mm WWW it W Mmw ii; mmmd 1; mi
11}? mmmgfz “WW5? mlsamim mmmmg amii hmm" rm mmjzh m
Kim imhsmh 1"
' Muir Mafia” {1% mm qzmmm WI m ddy 1W
 
 
 
 
 
 
*1
“Q
N
s“?
 
 
 
 
 
mimlwawdm Ham: 1%, twwidé
 
 
 
I; wwm aiiiwimt 251mm? @129; m mm praw§ m Imrmiam mwgm
0? mm in my {mm Wrimgimg up fmm Mm “mm
I, and @Lii §7k€§MF mmm MMW
[1, ~ I, {mm iisami; and, 12% m Mm'sk zl‘zimjy m 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
_ ini’WWWf], I Md iitmm madam
M m Wmmh 21v m1 mmm WWW w’ Mzmm
31 m1 hm: mm 'iwt ght 0f“ it‘ T‘Ehrkt m
m up My mam in, fWfHj MW
94% WWW”, w mm M m mm'xfm'xtw
 
 
 
 
 
 
W
ifwfmtimmmlg; lmm If 2W1
" zxmlim
 
 
WWW 45::
ME I
 
 
 
 
 
 
My HAPPY DELIVERANCE. 101
Just as I had set up my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch away,
I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of the current was near;
for where the current was so strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the water
clear, I found the current abate; and presently I found to the east, at about
half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks. These rocks, I found, caused
the current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, with a
very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the ladder,
or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them, or who have been’in
' Such extremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly
I put my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind also freshening, how
gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a
strong tide or eddy under foot. ‘ s
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, directly towards
the island, but about two leagues more towards the northward than the current lay
which carried me away at rst ; so that when I came near the island, I found my;
self open to the northern shore of it—that is to say, the other end of the island,
Opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league of way by help of this current
0!‘ eddy, I found ‘it was spent, and saved me no farther. However, I found that
being between two great currents--viz., that on the south side, which had hurried
me away, and that on the north, which lay about two leagues on_the other’ side“
I say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I foundthe water at least
Still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept
on steering directly for the island, though not making such fresh way as I did
before. -
About four o’clock in the evening, being then within about a league of the
island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out,.
a5 is described before, to the southward, and casting off the current more southerly,
had, of course, made another eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but
not directly setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full north.
However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west;
and in, about an hour came within about a mile of the shore, where, it being
Smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore,’I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my de-
1i".erance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts‘ of my deliverance'by my boat; and
refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore,
‘_ in a little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage. »
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat! I hadrun
so much hazard, and knew too much of the case, to think of attempting it by
the Way I went out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the west side)
,
I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures. So I resolved on
the next morning to make my way westward along the shore, and to see if there
was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, SO 118 to have her again,
if I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to
a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very convenient harbour for my
boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for
her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore to look
about me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but little passed the place where I had been before, when
I had travelled on foot to that shore; so, taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found everything ‘standing as I left it; for I
always kept it in- good order, being, as I said before, my country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs, for
I was very weary, and fell asleep. But judge you, if you can, that read my story,
‘what a surprise I must have been in when I was awaked out of my sleep by a
voice. calling me by my name several times: “Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe! poor
Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have
you been?” ' '-
I was so dead asleep at rst, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling, as it is
called, the rst part of the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not awake
thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat, “Robin Crusoe!
Robin Crusoe!” at last‘ I began to awake more perfectly, and was at rst dread-
fully frightened, and started‘ up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were
my eyes open but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language I had
used to talk to him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly that he
would sit upon my nger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, “Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How came you here?”
‘and such things as I had taught him. i '
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could be
nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself. First, I was
amazed how the creature got thither; and then, how he should just keep about
the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satised it could be nobody but
honest Poll,,I got over it; and holding out my hand, and calling him by'his
name, “Poll,” the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he
used to do, and continued talking to me, “Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I
come here? and where had I been?” just as if he had been overjoyed to see me
again; and so I carried him home along ‘with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough to
do for many days to sit still and reect upon the danger I had been in. I would
My POTS AND. WJCKERWARE. 103
have been very glad to have had my boat again» on my side of the island 5 but
I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
IShtnd, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that
Way; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of
it; and as to the other» side of the island, I did not know how'it might be there.
But supposing the current ran with the same force against the shore at the east
115 it passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk of being driven down
the stream, and carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried
away from it. So with these thoughts I contented myself to be without any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months’ labour to make it, and of so
many more to get it into the sea. -
In this government of my temper I remained near a year; lived a very sedate,
retired life, as you may well suppose 5 and my thoughts being very much composed
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which‘ my neces-
sities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I should, upon occasion,
have made a very ‘good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware, and con-
trived well enough to _ make them with a wheel, which I found innitely easier
and better, because I made things round and. shaped, which before were lthy
things indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain of my own per-
fOl'mance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than for my being able to
make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was
done, and only burnt red, like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and rm, and ,
wOuld draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had been
tthvays used to smoke; and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at
rst, not thinking that there was tobacco in the island 5 and afterwards, when I
Seetched the ship. again, I could not come at any‘pipes.
In my wickerware also I improved much, and made abundance of necessary
baskets, _as well as my invention showed me; though not very handsome, yet they
were such as were very handy, and convenient for laying things up in, or fetching
thhlgs home. For example, if I killed, a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a
‘tree, flay it, and dress it, and 'cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket:
- and the like by a turtle 5 I'could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or
twee of the esh, which was enough for me, and bring them home in a basket,
and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep baskets were my receivers for my
‘Pom, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured 5 and kept it in
great baskets, instead of a granary. '
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably 5 and this was a want
Which it was impossible for me'to supply, and I began seriously to consider what
I must do when I should have no more powder; that is to say, how I should- do
to kill any goats. I had, as I observed in the third year of my being here, kept
it Young kid, and bred‘ her up tame; I was in hopes of getting a he~kid5 but I
could not by any means bring it; to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and as I
could never nd in my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have said, my
ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare the
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I
wanted a she-goat great with young. To this purpose, I made snares to.hamper
them; and I believe they were more than once taken in them; but my tackle was
not good, for I had no wire, and always found them broken, and my bait
devoured. At length, I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug several large pits in
‘the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over these
pits I placed hurdles,'of my own making too, with a great weight upon them;
and several times -I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap; and
I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I
could see the marks of their, feet. At length, I set three traps in one night, and
going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and
gone; this was very discouraging. However, I altered my traps; and, not to
trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I found in one
of them a large old he-goat; and in one of the others, three kids, a .male and
two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so erce, I durst'
not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive,
which was what I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was not my business,
nor would it answer my end; so I" even .let him out, and he ran away, as if he
had been frighted out of his wits; but I had forgot then what I learned afterwards,
that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay. there three or four days
without food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty
sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time: then I
went to the three kids, and, taking them one by one, I tied them with strings
together, and with some difculty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some sweet '
corn, it tempted them, and. they began to be tame. And now I found that if I
expected to supply ‘myself with goats’ esh, when I had no powder or shot left,
breeding some up tame was my only way; when, perhaps, I might have them
about my house like a ock of sheep. But, then, it occurred to me that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew
up; and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them up ‘so effectually, that those within
might not break out, or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet, as I saw there was
an absolute necessity for doing it, my rst piece of work was to nd out a proper
piece of ground—via, where there was likely to, be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. »
| l
 
 
 
,4‘,
 
 
s" was ass 1 a5
 
 
Tlsasa aha aallssstaasl sasll'lsaras will alas l haal salty llstla sass sassw
Whats l piltslsa spas pl as. ssr‘y psapss far all lllass, ‘laal'si islala, salsa sf asaaslaw lasl, as sasaaiaa las aar paapls it is th lllastara salaais
as as llama llltls slsllls sf r'lra: ll, aasl at; ass sad was sssy assay;
1 say, llllily will smlls as say farasast, Wllll‘ll shall tall shsal l sagas by
 
 
 
 
a
"l, whisli
 
 
 
 
' aaslaslag
 
 
 
 
 
at’ lhls alsss sf gsaaarl la sash a aaaaaas, that hsdgs as pals s'llllll halls‘ llllllll
' ' ' ‘ ’ ‘lll allaat. l-lsr was tlas aladasss sf it as , sass as ta ssaslllllws
far if WW ma mllaa alaaas, l was llaa la hass llama sassgll la (la la is]; has
I as ass aassldas that aaa waalcl ha as wild is as slash sarasass as if
Q as hasl hall aha wlfisls lslaatl, assl l slssalsl bass sis ass. raala “ts slsass sham
as that l shaalsl assas satsh thassr " r
, My lsaslsgjs was bsaiaa ass sasslssl slll 1» lllllllllsl lllllllll lllll lllllll Wm” will
llmllllht sssarrasl ta ass as I ll»lirasaatlly ssslllsrl shastl sisal fss tlss hssiaslss
l sssalvssl as asalsss a 'alasa sf ahsal ans hasslssa aaril fty lfsl‘fl’l lll llilllllhl and’
was haaslasl yssd
 
 
a
 
 
 
 
 
 
ll
 
 
 
 
la hasaath, whlsls, as it: wsaltil saalataia as sassy w l shaaltl
 
 
1 06 ' R osnvsozv C R 050.12.
have in any reasonable time, so, as my dock increased, I could add more ground
to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with courage. I
was about three months hedging in the rst piece; and, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near me
as possible, to make them familiar; and very often I would go and carry them
some cars of barley, or a handful. of rice, and feed them out of my hand; so
that, after my enclosure was nished, and I let them loose, they would follow me
up and down, bleating after me for a handful of corn. .
This answered my end, and in abouta year and a half I had a ock of
about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more 'I had three-and-forty,
besides several that I took and killed for my food; and-after that, I enclosed ve
several pieces of ground to feed them, in, with little pens to drive them into, to
take them as I wanted them, and gates out of one piece of ground into another.
But *this was not all; for now I not only had goats’ esh to feed on when I
pleased, but milk t_oo-—a thing which, indeed, in my beginning I did not so
much as think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, was really an
‘ agreeable surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or
two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every
creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, that never milked
a cow, much less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very readily and handily,
though after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter and
cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards. How mercifully can our Creator
treat His creatures even in those conditions in which they seemed; to be over-
whelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and
give us cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was here
spread for me in a wilderness where I saw nothing at rst but to perish for hunger!
It would have made :1 Stoic smile to have seen me and my little family sit
down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island.
I had the lives of all my subjects at absolute command; I could hang, draw,
. give life and liberty and take it away, and no rebels among all my subjects. Then
to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants! Poll,
as if he had been my favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me;
my dog, who was now grown very old and crazy, and had found no species to '
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand ; and two cats, one on one
side the table, and-one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favour. ‘
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at rst, for they
were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation by my own
hand; but one of them having multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, -
these were two which I preserved tame; whereas the rest ran wild in the woods,
and became, indeed, troublesome to me at last, for they would often come into
my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did
kill a great many; at length they left me. With this attendance and in this
My NEW CLOTHES. 107
plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said to want anything but society;
‘and of that, in some time after this, I was likely to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my boat,
though very loth to run any more hazard 5 and, therefore, sometimes I sat con-
triving ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself down,
Cotltented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to
80 down to the point of the island where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I
Went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I might
See what I had to do. This inclination increased upon me every day, and at
1tthgth I resolved to travel thither by land; and, following the edge of the shore,
I did so; but had anyone in England met such a man as I was, it must either
have frighted them or raised a great deal of laughter: and as I frequently stood
Still to look at myself, I could not-but smile at the notion of my travelling
through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take
a Sketch of my gure, as follows :—
I had a great, high, shapeless cap made of goat’s skin, with a flap hanging
. \ .
down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the ram off from
httming into my neck 5 nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh under the clothes. '
I had a short jacket of goat’s skin, the skirts coming down to about the
thiddle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the breeches
Wete made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length
en either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stock-
Ihgs and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings—I scarce
l{new what to call them—like buskins, to ap over my legs and lace on either
side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as, indeed, were all the
test of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat’s skin dried, which I drew together with two
thongs'of ‘the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side
of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on
tme side, one on the other. I had another belt not so'broad, and fastened in
the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under
thy left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat’s skin too, in one of which
hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on
thy Shoulder my gun, and. over my head a great clumsy, ugly, goat-skin umbrella,
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me next to my
ghh- As for my face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as one
tthght expect from a man not at all ‘careful of it, and living within nine or ten
degrees of the equinox. My heard I had once suffered to grow till it was about
tt quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissors and razors suicient, I had
cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into
tt htt'ge pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks at
Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such, ,though the Turks did. (if these
mottstachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat
upon them, but they were of _a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as
in England would have passed for frightful.
But all this is by-the-bye; for, ‘as to my gure, I had so few to observe me
that it was of no manner of consequence, so I say no more to that part. In
this kind of dress I went my new journey, and was out ve or six days. I
travelled rst along the sea-shore, directly to the place where I rst brought my
boat to an anchor to get up upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take
care of, I went over the ‘land a nearer way to the same height that I was upon
before, when, looking forward to the point of the rock which lay out, and which
I was obliged to double with 'my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see
the sea all smooth and quiet—no rippling, no motion, no current any more there
than in other places. I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to
spend some time in the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide
had occasioned it; but I was presently convinced how it was—via, that the tide
of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters from some .
. great river on the.shore, must be the occasion of this current; and that accord-
ing as the wind blew more forcible from the west or from the north, this current
came near, or went farther from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts _till evening,
I went up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly
saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league
from the shore, whereas in my case it set close upon the shore, and hurried me
in my canoe along with ‘it, which at another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to observe the
ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about
the island again; but when I began to think about putting it in practice, I had
such terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been in,
that I could not think of it again with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took
up another resolution, which was more safe,ithough more laborious-—and this was,
that I would build, or rather make me another periagua, or canoe; and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the other. '
You are to_ understand that now I had, as I may call it, two plantations in
the island; one my little fortication or tent, with the wall about it, under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time I had enlarged into several
apartments, or caves, one within another. One of these, which was the driest and
largest, and‘ had a door out beyond my wall or fortication--that is to say, be—
yond where my wall joined to the rock-“was all lled up with the large earthen
pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or fteen great baskets,
which would hold ve or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of pro-
visions, especially my corn, some in the ear, out o' short from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those piles grew
all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that
there was not the least appearance, to anyone’s view, of any habitation behind
them.
 
 
Nm‘ wiig mwwmg M 3mm? WM; litlla lialrthss wilihla this laasl, aasl asaa
laaas asaaasl, ass’ tsa lialssss sf sasalassll Wllllill limit: dimly wltiwwd gllwall, sasl whlsll slalll lslllaxil llassast la its saasss; ‘illlll Wmnwmr hall sssaslaa fas alars sass, l hall mars lalfrsl aalslslag, lll ‘lllllll
this, l ass“ salaltsy asst, aasl halal saw la! lllllllllllmm timm
far hall all’ lllllltil bawsa, as l sallad it, slash l lrsst is ssfljlsllllmlml
ls a wlslall slsalssl is la, saaslaally lllild will m mug/1i
lsslafllt, lllllil always is. llllff larlsla l ths trass, wlflisla all
 
 
 
 
a saw was a alas I lia'sss” mm
was as mass lhaa salt slalassl has wars saw smwll Wily mm’ and will MWQW W
mm mm 5M3? might wmmi will {M alas aad wild, aasl tlia "mass gym M5,,gda, alllsh thsy ‘as affsssaalla as say sail/all la lllsl laislslls all l hasl
"say" asst: ssasallaal lsslsai s lialass at" sass llll {m Wwm? and whim MWW ,mmasl ass’ sspsls as saaaalsaf; aall asass shells I had
mass a saaala as sassls, was aha slalas sf tha laasl. lalllasl, sll
WM, mm, was ‘ll/‘sags, sad {,2 alaalaas lalsl as l'lasss sash ts ass saaa
mimimaw} whim hall sssssl; assl a grass waatizlassal ts all-salt 5. basal
Wmmvm mg aaaaslsas ta las alasaal; {sass shlsf asst, l lass as saaatsl’
halalsallas,
asllslailla‘ ts shls l hall as}? saslasasss fss aastlswmllsat is W my" my Wzm;
 
 
and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground, _-
I was so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that
I never left off till, with innite labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge
‘so full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale
than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them 5
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season,‘
made the enclosure strong like a wall—indeed, stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I‘was not idle, and that I spared no pains to
bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support; for I con-
sidered the keeping up a breed of tame‘ creatures thus at my hand would be a
living magazine of esh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in
the place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach de-
pended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that I might
be sure of keeping them together, which, by this method, indeed, I so effectually
secured, that when these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very
thick, I_was forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally depended on
for my winter store of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very care:
fully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed, they
were not agreeable only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to
the last degree. '
As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place
where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither,
for I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things about, or belonging‘
to her, in very good order. Sometimes Iwent out in her to divert myself, but no
more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely ever above a stone’s cast or two
from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again
by the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now I came to a new scene
of my life. ,
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceedingly
surprised with the print of a man’s naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an
apparition. I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing nor see
anything; I went up to.a rising ground, to look further; I went up_the shore, and
down the shore, but it was all one: I could see no other impression but that one.
I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might not
be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of
a foot--toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it came thither I knew not,
nor could in the least imagine. But after innumerable uttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortication, not
- feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terried to the last degree, looking
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying
every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many
various shapes my affrighted imagination represented things to me in; how many
 
 
 
 
 
M i fi’itfltft it
 
 
 
 
- TERROR. III
wild ideas were formed every moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccount-
able whimseys came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this), I ed
into it like one pursued. Whether I went over by the ladder, as rst contrived,
or went in at the hole in‘ the rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember;
for never frighted hare fled to cover, or ‘fox to earth, with more terror of mind
than I to this'retreat, ' \
I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my fright,
the greater my apprehensions were, which is something contrary to the nature of
Such things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was
$0 embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but
dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great way off it. Some—
times I fancied it must be the devil; and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition: for how should any other thing in human shape come into the place?
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks were there of any other
_ footsteps? And how was it possible a man should come there? But then to
think that Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place, where there
Could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind
him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it—
this was an amazement the other way. I considered that ‘the devil might have
found out abundance of other ways to have terried me than this of the single
Print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would
never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand
to one whether I should ever see it‘ or not, and in the sandtoo, which the rst
Surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced entirely. All this seemed
inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of
the subtlety of the devil. '
Abundance of such things as ‘these assisted to argue me out of all apprehen-
Sions of its being the devil; and I presently, concluded then that it must be some
more dangerous creature; viz., that it must be some of the savages of the mainland
Over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either driven
by the currents or by contrary winds, had made‘ the island, and had been on
show, but were gone away again to sea; being as 10th, perhaps, to have stayed in
this desolate island as I would have been to have had them.
_ While these reflections ‘were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful in my
*thollght that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they
‘did not see my'boat, by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants
. had been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible
thollghts racked my imagination about their having found my boat, and that there
were‘ people here; and that, if so, I should certainly have them come again in
greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen that they should not
nd me. yet they would nd my enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away
‘Ian my ock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that former condence in
-
God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had of His
goodness, now vanished; as. if He that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not
preserve by His power the provision which He had made for me ‘by His goodness. <
I reproached myself with my laziness, that would not sow any more com one year
than would just serve me till the next season, as if no_ accident could intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and this I thought .50
just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have two or three years’ corn before-
hand, so that, whatever might come, I might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of man! and by what
secret differing springs are the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present‘! Today we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow
we shun; to-day we desire what tomorrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the
apprehensions of. This, was exemplied in me at this time in the most lively
manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished from
human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off
from mankind, and- condemned to what I call silent life; that I was as one whom
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or to appear '
amongst the rest of His creatures; that to have seen one of my own species would
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the greatest blessing that
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that
I should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready
to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man having
set his foot on the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me a’ great many
curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my rst surprise. I
considered that this was the station of life the innitely wise and good providence
of God had determined for me; that‘ as I could not foresee what the end of
Divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute His sovereignty, who,
as I was His creature, had an undoubted right by creation to govern and dispose
of me absolutely as He thought t; and who, as I was a creature who had
offended Him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment
He thought t ; and that it was' my part to submit to bear His indignation, because
I had sinned against Him. I then reected 'that God, who was not only righteous,
but omnipotent, as He had thought t thus to- punish and afflict me, so He was
able_ to deliver me; that if He did not think t to do 'it, it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to His will ;'and, on the other hand,.
it was my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him,- and quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of His daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say weeks and
months; and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot.
omit; viz., one morning early, lying in my bed, and lled with thoughts about my
danger ‘from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very much;
upon which those words of the Scripture came into my thoughts: “ Call uponMe.
in the day of trouble: I will ‘deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.” Upon this,
 
f t; rigs
til; i was
rising shssrfsily nut sf my heart was sat; srily ssrnfsrtsl ,, sii sisns praying,
and ssessrsissti ts earnestly" ts Cissll fsr riisiiissrsnss: when
task. up my iiibis, and it is read, tbs
rst wards that present ts ms were, M ttttstt hit
the laws: his sf sand assess fifth thtth
stssns’thsn thy’ heart: waits it hit hit/h tettttw
is imxpsssilsls ts the ssnsfsrt gave
may and is rstsrs i thssltislly ttttwtt basis, and was we stars titfiis tit ttiiiittr mt tttt' tit/W
sssssiss.
as middle thsss asst
tstisss, sppsshsssisnsr with Iii“
iisstisns, it earns inns my
titssghts sss day ‘that sit;
this ‘might its users ehi.»
mars. sf my
swm and
that this their
might be the
grief; sf ‘say
sws fists t,
when i. earns
en shsrs fssrn
best: this '‘
ehssrsd the
up a iittis,
the, and I
began rs perm
salads myself
it was all. s.
ssississ I; that
it was writhing
wise but: nary
awn fast; and
why might IQ
test sense that
was frees the I it
htthti as wsli as was ssisg that was its the twist? sizst'tetdttti’h htt‘tt
I; assist by as means sell is ssrtsis where had trssi, sssi shew mm “my thzm jg this was ssly prist sf trey asses, fest, I itstti
ilttssss this start at these fssls wits try’ ts stssiss sf ssti jhttttttmths
than are thsmssisss fsiglttsd at them wists than t‘msthttttit
htmsfi began in take sausage, and in pass ssrsssl again, far I has est stirred
h
}
ti, it?
h
 
 
 
 
I’ I 31 iii hi its?” t’f'tliijltsif
 
 
 
 
is’?
 
 
out of my castle for three days'and nights, so that I began to starve for provision;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water. Then
I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening
diversion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want
of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their
milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the print
of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to start at my own shadow,
I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-house to milk my ock; but
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket, and run for my-life, it would
have made anyone have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that
I had been lately most terribly frighted; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I
went down thus two or three days,’ and having 'seen nothing, I began to be a
little bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination;
but I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down to the shore
again, and see this print of _a"foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there
was any similitude or tness, that I might beassu'red it was my own foot. But
when I came to the place-“rst, it appeared evidently to me that when I laid up , -
my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts: secondly, when
I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by
a great deal. Both these things lled my head with new imaginations, and gave
me the vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like one in
an ague; and I went home again, lled with the belief that some man or men
had been on shore there; or, in short,' that the island was inhabited, and I might
be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for my security I
knew not. I . '
Oh,’ what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear! It deprives
them of the use of those means whiclrreason offers for their relief. The rst thing
I proposed to myself was, to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame
cattle wild .into the woods, that the enemy might not nd them, and then frequent
the island in prospect of the same or the like booty: then the simple thing of
digging up my two corn-elds that they might not nd such a grain there, and still
be prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower and tent, that
they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther,
in order to nd out the persons inhabiting. ‘ '
These were the subjects of the rst night’s cogitations, after I was "come home
again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon
me, and my head was full of vapours as above. Thus, fear of danger is ten
thousand times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes; and
we 'nd the burden of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil ‘which we are ‘
anxious about: but, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble, from the resignation I used to practise, that I'hoped to have. I looked,
‘I thought,- lilte Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines were upon him,
f C ONTRIVE N E W DEFENCES. 115
but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now take due‘ ways to compose my
mind, by crying to God in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as I had
dOne before, for my defence and deliverance; which if I had done, I had at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried
‘through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the morning
I fell asleep; and having by the amusement of my mind been, as it were, tired,
‘1nd niy spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and awaked much better'composed
“Ian I had ever been before. And now I began to think sedately ; and, upon the
‘utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this island (which was so exceeding
Pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I had seen) was not
50 entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that although there were no stated
. iHhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats off
from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps never but when they were
driven by cross winds, might come to this place; that I had lived here fteen
Years now, and had not met with the least shadow or gure of ‘any people yet;
and that, if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable they went
away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought t to x
here upon any occasion to this time: that the most I could suggest any danger
i‘mm was, from any casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main,
‘ who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here against their wills; so
they made no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed, seldom staying
one night ‘on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and daylight
incl: again;,and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe
retreat, in case I should see any. savages land upon the spot. -
Now I began sorely to repent ‘that I had dug my cave ‘so large as to bring a
$1001‘ through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortication
Joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
' me a second fortication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from
my Wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve years before,
of which I made mention: these trees having been planted so thick before, there
wélnted but few piles to be driven between them, that they should be thicker and
stronger, and my wall would be soon nished. So that I had now a double wall;
and my outer ‘wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything i
Could think of to make it strong, having in it seven little holes, about as big as
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to about
ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot
‘of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to
Plant the muskets, of which I took notice that I got seven on shore out of the
Ship? these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and tted them into frames, that
llcld them like a carriage, that so I could re all the seven guns in two minutes’
lime.‘ This wall'I was many a weary month in nishing, and yet never thought
~ myself safe till it was done.
when this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a great way
every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found so
apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in
near- twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years’ time, I had a thick grove; and in ve or six years’ time
I had a wood before my dwelling grown so‘ monstrous thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable: and. no man, of what kind soever, would ever
imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the
way which I proposed to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was
by setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke
in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when’ the two ladders
were taken down, no man living could come down to me without mischieng
himself; and if they had come down, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall. ‘
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own
preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not altogether without
just reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more than- my mere fear
suggested to me. .
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other affairs; for I
had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats :' they were not only a
present supply to me ,upon every occasion, and began to be suicient for me,
without the expense of powder and shot, but also abated the fatigue of my hunt-
ing after the wild ones; and I was 10th to lose the advantage of them, and to
have them all to nurse up,over again. i
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two ways to
preserve them: one was to nd another, convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and the other was to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much concealed as
I could, where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place; so
that if any disaster happened to the ock in general, I might be able to raise
them again with little trouble and time: and this, though it would require a good
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most rational design. _ *
Accordingly, I spent some time to nd out the most retired parts of the
island; and I pitched upon one which was as private indeed as my heart could
. wish: it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and
thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost‘ myself once before, endeavouring
to come back that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a
clear piece of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure by Nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to make
it so, as the'other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately ,went to work with this pieqe of ground; and, in less than a
month’s time, I had so fenced it round that my ock, or herd, call it which you
please, which were not so wild now as at rst they might be supposed to be‘,
Wm WM} mmgh mmmd in it“ @153, Wimm may fmtmzm dar‘iay, I mmwmi mm
?i”§5”163~1&%mt5§} :md; tww 'mawgmm m thig; WWW :rmd, Mam “may warm Kmm I mmimm
m Wii’fif Hm fmfmz, till I Emmi mama’: m mmmié Mm minmy; whim, hmwwm“,
% did, at mmm mimm and it": mmk we? mp mam tim gmm aim},
mm m‘kimm’ 1; Wag, m m mpmmm M, Wxmly {mm my miigmfgmmimm am the:
W‘tmmm M MW prim m.’ mmxifia {mm mm 1 him Mm {1% Wm 11 mm WWW
mam any immm mmmmw @mmw mm m Mmrl; and I mww limd, Wm yiama
Mammy: wig; uima wiaiahg imdmi mam my H'Tiliiih 142% mmmmm than,
ii Wm mfmm, 3% may W311 m izmggémmi My my Wh mww Wlfm it: i% m Em in
 
H 2% mvmmmw” { mm)“
'm mmmm ware m’ m 0f mam.» And 2M1? I mum mmmwg with gri mm,
might Fm dimmpmmm mi my mind hml mm gram impmwimm 31% Wm M mligzimm
fmffi m‘ my mqmghwg {m ‘aha drwd and; mrmr M fallimgg' gm m mm M wmgm
Md mmmw My 2m mpm my whim, that I mqmm fmmd mwaif in a dim mmpm
m wpmmm w my Makw; m lamest? ‘mm "with wqim mlmmw m mmigmw
1 if???‘ M Wu} whim Wm wmm m aim I mxhw pmym m umdrr gmm
Mimimm and pméaimm mi” miml wmmmdm mm damggm mm m wwmmim Wmy
night M‘ Yimmg mm‘ydmd afimymlmd mfam mmninggg; zmii I mum; Wwtig mm
my mpwimm, than: a mmwzr wam *zmmkmmm Exiwm mdé zlffmtimm m 211mm
Wii mmw Wmpw frmw m? WWW that M WWKWW“ mmzi {iimmmpmmmg and that
“mm w: mm a}? miéihif imwmdimg, 2:1 E‘mzm my t; my & wmfirtimg
gt‘fmmmm mi Tim aim}; mi” praying m mm, mm 1% m {m mlmmzmm mm m %imk~
fm dimwmpmmm Mfmm m mémk$ m thaw mmm aim m hwy; and
mm wiimwwwm M” m mind mum mmwmriiy M: w ggmm a1, climwiiéty 3% mm mi"
1 18 Roam/soar C 1;» (7505‘.
the body, and much greater; praying to God being properly an‘ act of the mind,
not of the body. - '
But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I
went about the whole island, searching for another private place to make such
another deposit; when,,wandering more to the west point of the island than I
had ever done yet, and looking out to sea,“ I thought I saw a boat upon the
sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or two in one of the
seamen’s chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me; and
this was so remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at
it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer: whether it was a boat
or not, I do not know; but as I descended from the hill I could see no more
of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out without a perspective
glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed, I
had never been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a
.man’s foot was not. such a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and but
that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of the island where
the savages never came, I should easily have known that, nothing was more fre-
quent than for the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too
far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour: likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes,’ the victors, having taken any prisoners,
would bring them‘ over to this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs,
being all Cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being the
SW. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and particularly, I observed'a
place where there had been a re made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a
cockpit, where I ‘supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained no notions‘
of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror
of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had heard of often, yet I
never had so near a view of before; in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just‘ at the point of fainting,
when Nature discharged the disorder from my stomach; and having vomited, with
uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the
place a moment; so I got up thehill again with all the speed I could, and
walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still awhile, as
amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of
my- soul, and, with ti flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast:
my rst lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
1
A CANNIBAL 01:015. - 1 19
I
Creatures as these; and that though I had esteemed my present condition very
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it that I had still more to give
thanks for than to complain of: and this, above all, that I had, even in this
miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope
(of His blessing: which was a felicity more than sufciently equivalent to all the
misery which I had suffered, or could suffer.
In this 'frameof thankfulness, I went home to my castle, and began to be
much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances,» than ever I was before:
for I observed that these wretches never came to tlns island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, anything here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered, woody part of it, without
nding anything to their purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of human creature there before; and I
might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion to do; it being my
only business -to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of ‘creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet I enter-
tained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been speaking of,
mid of the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued'pensive and sad, and kept close within ‘my own circle for
almost two years after this: when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three
plantations, viz., my castle, my country-seat (which I called my bower), and my
enclosure in the woods: nor did I look after this for any other‘ use than as an
enclosure for, my goats; for the aversion which Nature gave me to these hellish
wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil
himself, nor dd I so much as go to look after my boat in all this time, but
began rather to think of making me another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest
* I should meet. with some of those creatures at sea; in which case, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by‘these‘~ people, began to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I .
. began to live just in the same composed manner as before, only with this differ-
ence, that -I used more‘caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did
“before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly I was
more cautious in ring my gun, lest any of them, being on the island, should
llHppen to hear it; and it was, therefore, a very good providence to me that I
, had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, and that I had no need to
' hunt any more (about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I‘did catch any of
*them after this, it was by traps andI snares, as- I had done before: so that for
tw0 years after this, I believe I never red my gun once off, though I never
- Went out without it; and, ‘which was more, as I had saved three pistols out of
the ship, I always carried them out with me, or- at least two of them, sticking
them ‘in my goat-skin belt: I likewise furbished up one of the great cutlasses
as dis sass.
 
 
‘t a lma a as-
 
 
44%
all ta pas it: an alas; shat saw a mast famidalsla aw as l 'sraad, if yes add
is the frames aiqariptlaa of myself, sh gitlartiaalar sf twa ‘pisrals, and a great
hsaaslvs anal haaglag my aids in a lair, has wirlsaat a saahhard.
il’hiags an rials, as llaaa said, far: same time, ll saalaad, assessing
aalala a, la he raaaaatl as my f rarer salsa sedate way sf living All she a.
deal" as shear ma, liners sad asara, haw far my aanrlitiaa "was lanai lasing
ashlar, aaaaparsrl ta salsa tilll’tllltll I; is many ether partlaalaas all" life, 'Willt’ifll
as gist haaa pleased flail ta has made my lat. It pat ass span rallaating haw
listla rapiai its; a aaaid he araaa iaakiai as any anaditiaa sf lie, if paaple
 
 
“that had sat at the ship, aaril made are a h
i
“is
 
 
m
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. r
waaid sathar aaarpara tl‘lair aalalltiaa with these ass warsa, in sales ta ha
@lhaakfal, tls a lisa alway aaraparing the as ‘all
their aairasuriafr and aoaaalaiaia
jar... at: lissrailitlaa til; aara ant really many things whlah I a salad,
as, , l tlaaaght that th, frlghts hall lsaaa is ahaat shasa savage wrataha ,
and sans a ll lllltl lsaea ii liar ray aw: ‘I rasarsarioa, had taken all the saga
sf my lavaaliaa far my awn aaavaaiaaas; and I drapparl a. grand design,
whiah I had sass any shaaghts apes alias as la tryv if I aauld alas
l'aalta as, it?‘ my harley lass malt, and tlaaa lay in laaw myself saraa hass. 'l’lsis
was saally a walraslaai shanghai, aral l sapraaatl myself altars fails aha siarpliaity aii
 
 
a»:
is shasa whlah are hatter, ta assist
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLANS A GAINST THE 5.4 VA 055. 1 2 I
it: for I presently saw there would be the want of several things necessary to
the making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to supply; as, rst,
Casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
Could never compass; no, though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay, months,
in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make
it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet
had not all these things intervened—I mean, the frights and terrors I was in
. about the savages---I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass, too; for
I seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it, when I once had it in
my head enough to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another way; for,
night and day, I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these
monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment; and, if possible, save the victim
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume than this
‘Whole work is intended to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or
rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at
least frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more: but all
was abortive; nothing could be possible to take effect, unless I was to be there
to do it myself : and what could one man do among them, when perhaps there
might be twenty or thirty of them together with their darts, or their bows and
arrows, with which they could shoot astrue to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where they made their
re, and putting in ve or six pounds of ' gunpowder, which, when they kindled
their re, would consequently take re, and blow up all that was near it: but
£15, in the rst place, I should be unwilling to waste so ‘much powder upon them,
my store being now within the quantity of one barrel, ‘so neither could I be sure
of its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise them; and, at best,
that it would do little more than just blow the re about their ears and fright
them, but not suicient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it aside; and
then proposed that I would place myself _ in ambush in some convenient place,
with my three guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody ceremony
let y at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at
every shot; and then falling in upon them with my three pistols and my sword,
I made no doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all. This
fIlncy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it, that I often
dreamed of it, and sometimes, that I was just going to let fly at them in my
sleep. I went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself several
days to nd out proper places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch
for them, and I went frequently to the place itself, which was now: grown more
fZlmiliar to me; but while my mind was thus lled with thoughts of revenge and
of a bloody putting t'wenty-or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the
horror I had at the place, and-at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring
one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length .I found a place in the side of
the hill, where I was satised I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats
Coming; and might then, even before they would be ready to come on shore,
\
convey myself unseen into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a
hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe
all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when they were so
close ‘together as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss my shot,
or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the. rst shot. In this
place, then, I resolved to x my design; and accordingly I prepared two muskets
and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs
each, and four or ve smaller bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; and the
fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of the largest size; I also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and in this posture, well pro-
vided with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for my
expedition. , >
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my imagination put
it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning to the top of the hill,
which was from 1ny.castle, as I called, it, about three miles, or more, to see if
I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three
months constantly kept my watch, but came always back without any discovery;
there having not, in all that time, been the least appearance, not only on or
near the shore, but on the whole ocean, as far as’ my eyes or glass could reach
every way. . . '
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also I kept
up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a
suitable frame for so‘ outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked
savages, for an offence which I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my
thoughts, any farther than my passions were at rst red by the horror I conceived
' at the unnatural custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had been
suffered by Prhvidence, in His wise disposition‘ of the world, to have no other
guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions; and, consequently,
were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, to act'such horrid things, and
receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by
. Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into.
But now, when, as I have said, I began to he weary-of the fruitless excursion
which I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion of
the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, to
consider what I was going to engage in; what authority or call I had to pretend
to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
thought t, for so many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioners of His judgments, one upon another; how far these people
were offenders against me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that
blood which they shed promiscuously upon one another. I debated this very often
with myself thus :—-“How do I know what God Himself judges in this particular
case? It is certain these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not against
their own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching them; they do not know
0 UGHT 1' TO K 1L1. THE .1 was 5’ 12 3
it to'be an offence, and then commit it in deance of Divine justice, as we do
.-in almost all the sins we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
Captive taken in war, than we do to kill an‘ ox; or to eat human esh, than we
do to eat mutton.”
When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I was certainly in
the wrong in it; that these people were not murderers, in the sense that I had
before condemned them in my thoughts, any more than those Christians were
murderers who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more fre-
quently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to the sword, without
giving quarter, though they threw down their arms and submitted. In the next
place, it occurred to me, that albeit the usage they gave one another was thus
brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me. ,These people had done
me no injury; that if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate
preservation, to fall upon them, something might be said for'it: but that I was.
Yet out of their power, and they really had no knowledge of me, and consequently
"0 design upon me; and, therefore, it could not be just for me to fall upon them.
That this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities
practised in America, where they destroyed millions of these people; who, however
they were ‘idolaters and barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in
‘their customs, such as sacricing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as‘ to the
,Spaniards, veryinnocent people; and that the rooting them out of the country is
Spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the Spaniards them-
Selves, at this‘ time, and by all other Christian nations in Europe, as a mere
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to ‘God or
'man; and such as for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all. people of humanity or of Christian compassion; as if
the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the product of a race of men
Who were without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kindof a full stop;
and I began, by little and little, to be off my design, and to conclude I had
taken wrong measures in my resolution to attack the savages; and that it was
nOt'my business to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me ; and this it
was my business, if possible, to prevent: but that if I were discovered and
attacked by them, then I knew my duty. On the other hand, I argued with
,myself that this really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and
destroy myself; for, unless I was sure to kill every one that not only should be
on shore at that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one
of them escaped to tell their countrypeople what had. happened, they would come
Over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only
ring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of
Occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded that I ought neither in principle’
not‘ in policy, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair; that my business
was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from. them, and not to leave the
1mm gigm {m tiwm m 1W that tiwm Wmas my living; mmmrm upm mm
iimdwwl mirzm M hmfmm al'igggim 5mm with, pmdrmim mwm
mam 5 and mmmmd lmy? mmny Wzzxw that I Wm Wmmy mi; m" my duty
Wmm laying all my mimqiy Mmnm {m Mm dwtmmiam m” imnmwt mwimum
mwzm inmwmm am 1mm m {:rimm tmy Wfii“ W221»? mi“ mwmaiéa mm
mmhxzrr, ‘I had naming; m cm with 12mm: tl‘ww mtiwmxl mmihmwmg m mm
 
M w mew: x ammm mamm; MW‘ 2i'gwfxm” { max);
4% jmt mtzzfibmim my“ mmimml w‘mma, and m bring Wllliii jmdgmémt mama tlmm
mm aixf’fmd in a, Wblia': xmmmz; my @mzha WZWH m1; {Maw (Emmi T‘M ,zzgjapmm
m almarwr m WW 2mm "that mmmim ax ‘grmmr mtzizéafzmiam 25m 'iffi? than mm 1 Md
mint; mm Wffmmd My am a thing; mm, I MW 32W“ mum mmgeaiim ta; 'itimlmwz
Wma hw mm a aim mam mt m“ mm mmdm if I had mtwmfzimm it;
and I WWW: hmmblim mmkzeaj, mm, my knmizaa m mij, tiiam kiwi mm; qiiglimmd
mm {mm bmmiwgmiMtémzw5; Him w gmm: mm this}? mi“ Ifmfwidmmzt, that If migm mm W1 11% m hmzjzei; M ‘i/w: mmrigcmw, m” that I migm
mm my my mm mwm mm Wms; I ma m mam mm: mil {mm Tkhmvm m c310
at, in“ d‘zfkimm mf my mwm Wm
In ilhi diwwitim I mmimmd far mm a“, Wium fiil“ mm; and; w ‘my ‘W Ii
 
 
I REMOVE My BOAT. _ 125
from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I
never once went up the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or not, that I might
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them, or be provoked
by any advantage that might present itself, to fall upon them; only this I did:
I went and removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little
Cove, which I found under some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the
Currents, the savages durst not, at least would not, come with their boats upon
any account whatever. With my boat I carried away everything that I. had left
there belonging to her,:though not necessary for the bare going thither—via, a
mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which
indeed could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the best I
could make of its kind : all these I removed, that there might not be the least
shadow for discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any habitation‘ upon the
island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom
Went from my cell, except upon my constant employment, via, to milk my she-
goats, and manage my little ock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
Other part of the island, was out of danger; for certain it is that these savage
people who sometimes haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of nd-
ing anything here, and consequently never wandered off from the coast, and I doubt
not but they might have been several times- on shore after my apprehensions of
them had made me cautious, as well as before. Indeed, I looked back with some
horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would have been, if I had dropped
upon them and been discovered before that; when, naked, and unarmed except
with one gun, and that loaded often'only with small shot, I walked everywhere,
peeping and peering about the island to see what ‘I could get; what a surprise
should I have been in if, when I discovered theprint of a man’s foot, I had
instead of that seen fteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and
by the, swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping them! The
thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul within me, and‘ distressed my mind
80 much that I could not soon recover it, to think what I should have done, and
how I should not only have been unable to resist them, but even should not
have had. presence of mind enough to do what I might have done; much less
what now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might be able to do.
Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would be very melancholy, and
Sometimes it would last a great while: but I resolved it all, at last, into thankful-
Hess to that Providence-which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers,
and had kept me from those mischiefs which I could have no way been the
agent in delivering myself from, because I had not'the least notion of any such
thing depending, or the least supposition of its being possible.
This renewed a contemplation which often had come into my thoughts in
fOrmer times, when rst I began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the
dangers we run through in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we
know nothing of it; how, when- we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt or
hesitation whether to go this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this
way, when we intended to go that way: nay, when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has called us to go the other way, yet a strange impression
upon the mind, from' we know not what springs, and by we know not .what ‘power,
shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gene
that way which we should have gone, and even to our imagination'ought to have
gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflec- -
tions, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found those
secret hints or pressings .of mind, to doing or not doing anything that presented,
or going this way or that way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate; though
I knew no other reason for it than that such a pressure, or such a hint, hung
upon my mind. I could give many examples of the success of this conduct in
the course of my life, but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this,
unhappy island; besides many occasions which it is very likely I might have taken
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is
never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men, whose
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though not so
extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of Providence, let them come
from what invisible intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and perhaps
cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and
a secret communication between those embodied and those unembodied, and such
a proof as can never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal
place. ‘ i
I believe the reader-of this will not think it strange if I confess that these
anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon
me, put an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid for
my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the care of my safety more
now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a
stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I re a gun for the same reason: and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy
at making any re, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For, this reason, I removed that part of my business which
required re, such as burning of pots and pipes, &c., into my new apartment in
the woods; where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a more natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where.
I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to
venture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted no-
thing so much as a. safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where, by mere
accident (I would say, {if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now
to Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make char-
coal; and before I go on I must observe the reason for my making this charcoal,
lily ADVENTURE [N THE CA V5. 127
which was thus :-——I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said
before, and yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cooking my meat,
81c. ; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England,
under turf, till it became chark or dry coal; and then putting the re out, I pre-
served the coal to carry home, and perform the other services for which re was
wanting, without danger of smoke. But this is by-the-bye. While I was‘ cutting
down some wood here, I perceived that, behind a very thick branch‘ of low brush,
wood or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look in
it; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of - it, I found it ‘was pretty large,
that is to say, sufcient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with
me; but I must confess to you that I made more haste out than I didn when,
looking farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark,’ I saw two broad
shining eyes of some creature--whether devil or man I knew not—---which twinkled
like two stars; the dim light from the cave’s mouth shining directly in, and
making the reflection. However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began
to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that he that was afraid to see the
devil was not t to live‘ twenty years in an island all alone; and that I'might
well think there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself.
Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a rebrand, and in I rushed again,
with the stick flaming in my hand. I had not gone three steps in before I was
almost as much frightened as before; for I heard a very loud sigh, .like that of a
man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words half ex-
pressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck with
Such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my
head, I will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off.. But still
Plu/cking up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with
considering that the power and presence of God wasreverywhere, and was able to
protect me, I stepped forward again, and by the light of the rebrand, holding it.
up a little over my head, I saw lying on’ the ground a monstrous’, frightful old
lie-goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed,'
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he
cssayed to get-up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with ‘myself
.he might even lie there; for if he had frightened me, so he would. certainly.
{fight any of the savages, if any one of them should be so hardy as to come in
there while he had any life in him.
I was now ‘recovered from my surprise, and began to look’ round me, when
1 found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it might be about twelve
feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither round ‘nor square, no hands having
ever been employed in making it but those of mere nature. I observed also
that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in farther, but was so
low that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
Whither it went I knew not; so, having no candle, gave it over for that time,
but resolved to come again the next day provided with candles’and a tinder-box,
which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some wildre in the pan.
 
 
 
:aix: lmgw mxfwi}
my Wmi mmdl M
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mmmimggm
 
 
 
 
1mm
 
 
mag'fi
 
 
Ia,
Wmmwmm%
 
 
 
 
%%mm%ht
 
 
Q
I
w 1 "Mi mm
 
 
mwwmkg‘ mmmmw
wmmtimmm 21m
mmim} mm} gmimg
WM;
 
 
15mm any mm“? (31' mm! m 511M
ismmfmmmwwhim, hm £32‘ a”; it; Wm
and mwh
m m a mm: lfiwwiqiimd ‘with
m" my wwm 353“
 
 
king? lm" 1; mm?“
Wmw’ mmw, hm mm;
 
 
 
 
mm
mm
 
 
migm m mm {f}
MZWW zii, :1} zimmt
W333 I
Wié mam/m Zjmhii
{:wimgidmmg Hf’; ‘£34 I kmw
 
 
WM“; haw {m mizigm ‘gm, mm
whim Wéi ‘U
 
 
WW} ii; Wlzmfx
WM “ZEWLMgh mam fmmi Em mm
}
imam M2? ‘mpwwl hfiliiw
rmm’ Mamy fwt; limt
 
 
 
 
 
 
1mm rmmd Mm raidw mmii
Mimi M Wig; Wmh: m
m WM mwiim MIMI? £1 wmmd lighm
m mm Mam my Wm
mmmw Whiz it Wsa in
mfmk a Imzhm d'izw
; mivim'r [New
mimm flk m? ,gw‘MM/W
whim rmhm x‘wwwd
awn
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tim Mam l vym in ‘W:
 
 
a 21mm: amnmmi wmrim
mt’ WWW? timmgk‘x pww
fmy gm Hm aw
zmd lwvl mail
:1 mm M a; mnM
"rmwl 11pm"; it?
thw Wm mm
m wismmfamm
m mmf ;
plaza‘:
a mmwmémmww
e261??? withmt my
 
 
E'lgla mfg
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A STATE OF 51505. 129
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about to this
place; particularly, I resolved to bring-hither my magazine of powder, and all my
Spare arms—via, two fowling-pieces, for I had'three in all; and three muskets,
for of them I had eight in all; so I kept in my castle only ve, which stood
ready mounted like pieces of cannon on my outmost defence, and were ready also
to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammuni-
tion, I happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea,
and which had been wet, and I found that the water had penetrated about three ,
or four inches into the powder on every side, which, caking and- growing hard,
had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell, so that I had near sixty pounds
of very good powder in the centre of the cask; and this was a very agreeable‘ dis-
covery to me at that time; so 'I carried all away thither, neve'r'keeping above two
or’ three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind.
‘I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to live in‘
caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come at them; for I persuaded
myself, while I was here, that if ve hundred savages were to hunt me, they could
never nd me out—or if they did,‘ they would not venture to attack me' here.
The old goat whom I found expiring died in the mouth of the cave the next day
after'I made this discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there,
and throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so'I interred
him there, to prevent offence to my nose. . ' '
I ,was now in the twenty-third year of residence in- this island, and was so
naturalised to the place and the manner of living that, could I but have enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb 'me, ‘I could
have been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of ‘my time there,
even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat
in the cave. I had also arrived to some little'diversions ‘and amusements, which
made the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did' before:
rst, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so
familiarly, and talked‘ so articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me,
and he glivecl with me no less than six-and-twenty years. How long he might
have lived afterwards I know not, though I know they have a 'inotion in the
Brazils that they live a hundred years. _Perhaps some of my Polls may ‘be alive
there still, calling after poor Robinson Crusoe to this day: I wish ‘no Englishman
the ill~luck to come there and hear- them; but if he did he would certainly
believe it was the devil. My dog was‘ a pleasant and loving companion to me
for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age. As
for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that Iwas obliged
‘(0 shoot several of them at‘ rst, to keep them from devouring me and all I had;
but, at length, when the old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
1lime continually driving them from me,'and letting them have no provision with
me, they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three ‘favourites, which I kept
tame, and‘ whose young, when they had any, I always drowned; and these were
9 .
1 30 1t? oauvsozv C A'USOE.
part of my family. Besides these I always kept two or three household kids
about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots,
which talked pretty well, and would all call “Robin Crusoe,” but none like my
rst; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had done with
him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose name I knew not, that I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little ‘stakes which I had planted
before my castle-wail being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all
lived among these low trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me;
so that, as I said above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led,
if I could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was other-
wise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my
story to make this‘ just observation from it: viz., how frequently, in the course of
,our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are
fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of
our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we
are fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my unaccount-
able life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the circumstances
of my,last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-third
year; and this, being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the
particular ‘time of my harvest, and required me to be pretty much abroad in the
elds, when, going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was thorough
daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some re upon the shore, at a
distance from me of about two miles. towards the end of the island where I had
observed some savages had been, as before, and not on the other side, but, to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island. '
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short within my grove,
not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling over the
island, should nd my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude that there were people in the place, and
would then never rest till they had found me out. In this extremity I went~~back
directly to my castle, and pulled up the ladder after me, having made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could. '
Then I prepared ‘myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence; I loaded
all my cannon, as I called them-"that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon
my new fortication, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself .to the last
gasp—not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and
earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians. And
in this posture I continued about two hours, and began to be impatient for intelli-
gence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After sitting a while longer, and
musing what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance
‘ any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side .of the hill, where there was a
at place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up
A V1317‘ FROM THE SA VA GES. r 3 I
again, and mounted to the top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective-glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground,
and began to look for the place. I presently found there were no less than nine
naked savages sitting round a small re they had made, not to. warm ‘them, for
they had no need of that, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to
dress some of their barbarous diet of human esh which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up on' the shore;
and as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to me to wait the return of the ood
to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what 'confusion this sight put me
into, especially seeing them come on my side of the island, and so near me, too;
but when I considered their coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I
began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being satised that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the ood of tide, if they were not on shore
before; and having made this observation, I went abroad about my harvest work
with the more composure. ,
As I expected,‘ soi'it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to the westward, I
saw'them all take boat and row (or paddle, as we call it) away. I should have
observed, that for an hour or more before they went off they were dancing and I
could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass. I could not perceive,
by my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked, and had not the least.
covering upon them; but whether they were men or women, I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders,
and two pistols in my girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a Scabbard,
and with all the speed I was able to make went away to ‘the hill where I had
discovered the rst appearance of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was
not in less than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loaded with arms
as I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at ‘that place;
and, looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over for the
main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going down to the
shore, I could see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been
about had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of
human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport..
I was so lled with indignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate
the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many
soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fteen months before any more
Of them came on shore there again-—that is to say, I neither saw them nor any
footsteps or signals of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons, then
they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while I lived
uncomfortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me
by surprise—from whence I observe that the expectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off that expectation or
those apprehensions.
t? t
 
 
 
 
ttttttt Wtt
tt tffttjt ' ttttttt tit
tt’tttft; fttftl tttgttttt tttttttt tttt: tttty
t
‘t
tt
 
 
in ttttt t‘tttttt’tttt’ittg; 1‘tttttttlttltt ttttttt
ttitit titttttt
f t ttttttt ttf titty
~ tzttt itt tit’tt "tit tirittttttttttttt
' ' ttttt tttttttt 'ttittttty ttt y "ittttttttt tit ; tttt it” ttt’t'
" ttttt ttttiztt titty, titt
tttttttt ttt ‘1K titttttttttt
tt, "7 titt 1”"titttp5
tttttt ttt” 'tt'ttttttt
titt“ tit " ' "
 
 
 
 
, , tttttt Iftttttiywwtttft" tttttt
t’t‘ttftttth? it} tttttt tt
t I it t
ttW h,’ 13 tit ttttttttttttt ttttttt titty tt
ttt titttjttt tttttt
 
 
ttttttt tttt
 
 
é“?
 
 
ttttttftt tt‘ttttti _
that I ttttttttttt tittttt titty tftt‘ tttttttt
 
 
H t Ltmtw“ wt?
 
 
t
 
 
VTtM?%“
 
 
5-“:
M
ttttt Witttt it Mittttttttg
it tttt tttttt “ti ttttttttt, ttift
tit tttttttt titt“ tt tttt
ttttttttttty t’ttitttt” tttttt it
 
 
tttttttttt’t mm: with .tttttttt tttttflt ttttttitttt ttttttttttt
pt tfiittm tttttt tttttt it} ttttt; tttttt I ttttt
‘ftftt" I ttttttt tt ttIittZttt ttttttttttttt tttt I I,
ttttttttt ttttty titttttft t , tt 1 fttttttttt ttttttttt tttt:
ff‘ttttt tttt: ttttt I tttttt ttt itttttt tit” titytttt ti'Wtlt ttt tttttttt ttttttdtttt tttttttittt with ttttttt itt tt tttttt thtltt I; ftttttttt1t, tt ittti‘i ttttt tttttt tttttttt tttttttf:
ttttttgt {It titttit tt ttt t" ttttt tttii T". TX tt tittttttt ttttzt'tt tttttr, ttt twttl'ittt ttt titttttttt M34175??? tttttt tttt I ttttt t tttt ttttt tttttttttt tttt t ttt tit
tttttt in tttjt ‘ftlttttmitt’ttf' ttttttttt yttttt tttttt tttty tttttttttttttttt wt 'tt
ttt tthittt tt't tttt
i») v/
 
; it t ttttt tittt‘ttt ttltttri"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“t
 
 
5s:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOUNDS OF A SHIP 1N DISTRESS. 1 3 3-
The perturbation of my mind during this fteen or sixteen months interval
was very great; I slept unquietly, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night. In the day, great troubles overwhelmed
my mind; and in the night, I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the
reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But to waive all this for a while.
It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor
wooden calendar would reckon, for I marked all upon the post still—I say, it
was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after it.
I knew not what was the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading in the
Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present condition, I
was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, red at sea. This was, to
be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started
up in the greatest haste imaginable; and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the
middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;. and, mounting it the second
time, got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of re bade me
listen for a second gun, which, accordingly, in about half a'minute, I heard;
and by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where 'I was
driven out with the current in my boat. I immediately considered that this
must be some ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other
ship in company, and red these for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I
had the presence of mind, at that minute, to think that though I could. not help
them, it might be they might help me; so I brought together all the .dry wood
I could get'at hand, and, making a good handsome pile, I set it on re upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out, so that I was certain, if there ‘was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever
my re blazed up, I heard another,gun, and after that several others, all from
the same quarter. I plied my re all night long, till daybreak; and when’ it
was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at
sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish—no,
not with my glass; the distance was so great, and the weather still something
hazy also—at least, it was so out at sea. ' ‘
I looked frequently‘ at it all that day, and soon'perceived that it did 'not
move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager,
you may be sure, to be satised, I took my gun in my hand, 'and ran towards
the south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly been carried away
with the current; and getting. vup there, the weather by this time being perfectly
Clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat,
and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind of
counter-stream‘, or eddy, were the occasion of - my‘ recovering from the most
desperate, hopeless condition that ever I had been in, in all my life. Thus, what
is one man’s safety is another man’s destruction; for it seems these men, whoever
they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water,
had been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose‘they did not, they must,
as I thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of
their boat; but their ring off their guns for help, especially when they saw, as I
imagined, my re, lled me with many thoughts. First, I imagined ‘that upon
seeing my light they might have put themselves into their boat, and endeavoured
to make the shore; but that the sea running very high, they might have been cast
away. Other times, I imagined that they might have lost their boat before, as
‘might be the case many ways; as particularly by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliged men to stave, or take in pieces, their boat,
and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own‘ hands. Other times’, I‘
imagined they had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon the signals
of distress they made‘, had taken them up, and carried them off. Other times, I
fancied they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where
there was nothing but misery and perishing ; and that,‘ perhaps, they might by this
time think of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another.
As all thesewere but conjectures at best, so, in the condition I was in, I
could do no more than look on, upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect upon my side, that it gave me more and more
cause‘ to give thanks to God, who had so happily and comfortably provided for
me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships’ companies, who were now
cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learned here again to observe that it is very rare that the providence of God
casts us into any condition of life so low, or any misery so great, but we may
see something or other to be thankful for, and may see others in worse circum-
stances than our own. Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I
could not so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing
could make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish
there, except the possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in com-
pany; and this was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least signal,
or appearance of any such thing. I cannot explain, by any possible energy of
words, what a strange longing I felt .in my soul upon this sight, breaking out
sometimes thus :——“Oh, that there had been but ‘one or two, nay, or but one
soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but have had
one companion, one fellowcreature, to have spoken to me _and to have conversed
with P” In all the time of my solitary life, ‘I never felt so earnest, so strong ‘a
desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want
of it. -- . '
There are'some secret moving springs in the affections, which, when they are
set a-going by some object in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered present
to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul, by its
I VTSJT THE SPANISH W125 ca’. I 3 5
impetuosity, to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence of‘
it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been
1 saved, I believe I repeated the words, “Oh, that it had been but one!" a
thousand times; and my desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the
words my hands would clench together, and my ngers would press the palms of
my hands, so that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, I would have crushed
it’ involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would strike together, and set against
one another so strong, that for some time I could not part them again. Let the
naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner of them. All I can
‘say of them is, to describe ‘the fact, which was even surprising to me, when I
found it, though I knew not from what it should proceed; it was, doubtless, the
effect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed ‘in my mind, realising the com-
fort which the conversation of one of my fellow-Christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbade it, for till the
last year of my being on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of
that ship or no; and had only the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of
a drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was next the, ship-
wreck. He had no clothes on but a .seaman’s waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed
linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to
guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pockets but two pieces of
eight and a tobacco-pipe—the last was to me of ten times more value than the
rst. ~
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this
wreck, not doubting but I might nd something on board that might be useful to
me. But that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that there
might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but might, by saving that life, conifort my own to the last degree; and this
thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet night or day, but I must
venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; and committing the rest to God’s
providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted, that it must’come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go. 1
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, prepared
everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, ‘a great pot for fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left),
and a basket of raisins; and thus loading myself with everything'necessary, I went
down to my boat, got the water out of her, ‘got her aoat, loaded all, my cargo in
her, and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great bag full
, of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a'shade, another large pot full
of fresh water, and about two dozen of small loaves, or barley cakes, more than
before, with a bottle of goat’s-milk, and a cheese: all which with great labour and
sweat I brought to my boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out,
‘and rowing or paddling the canoe along the" shore, came at last to the utmost
point of the island on the north-east side. And now I was to launch out into
the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid
currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a distance, and which
were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard‘ I had been in
. before, and my heart began to fail me ; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either
of those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out of
my reach or sight of the island again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if
any little gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost. _ ,
These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began -to give over my enterprise;
and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and
sat down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and
desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide
was turned, and the ood came on; upon which, my going was impracticable for
so many hours. Upon this, presently it occurred to me that I should go up to
the highest piece of ground I could nd, and .observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide or currents lay, when the ood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another way home, with the
same rapidity of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I
cast my eye upon a little hill, which suiciently overlooked the sea both ways, and
from‘ whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the current
of ebb set out close by "the south pointof the island, so the current of the ood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to do but to
keep to the north- of the island in my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to set out with
the rst of the tide; and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I rst made a little out to sea,
full north, till I began to feel the benet of the current, which set eastward, and which
carried me at a great rate, and yet did not ‘so hurry me as the current on the south
side had done before, so as to take from me all government of the boat; but having a
strong steerage with my paddle, I went, at a great rate, directly for the wreck, and in
less than two hours I came up to it. It was a'disrnal sight to look at: the ship,
which by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks: all
the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and as her fore-
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great- violence, her mainmast
‘and foremast were brought by the board, that is to say, broken .ShOrt Off; but her
bowsprit was sound, .and the head and bow appeared rm- When I came close
to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and,
as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me: I took him into ‘
‘the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a
fortnight in the snow; I then gave the poor creature some' fresh water, with
which, if I, would have let him, he would have burst himself. After this I went
on board; but the rst sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded,
as sees" sees he has 1;; y
es isdeed pseifiishie, that the ship strseh, it is sterei, see. hmhe
sh high, eed eeetiheslly ester her, that wsee were set shle ts it, she
strsegied with the sweetest is ef the water, mesh as if they hstji
heee seder water. "@esides the these was eethhig left is the that had
his; her say geesis, that I eeelsi see, has what as re speiled hy the water. were seats essks ef hqeer, whether wise er hreedy I heew set, whieh iewes
he the held, and whieiir, the water heieg ehhesl est, eeeid het they were
tee hig ts meddle with. I: saw sesessl sheets, i hehese heteeged tea steers
 
 
‘ ‘ “Hi i5; tiff sh ialtistlihhfi
ef the sesreee; sad I twe at there iete the heat, withest essmihieg what
was is these. the stem ef the ,ip heee heed, sad the fete-pert hrehee
eff; 1 are perssesied i might hsse made a geed seysge; the, hy what I;
these is these the sheets, I had teeth is seppese the ship had. a
street deal ef wealth es heard; sad, if may geese frees the eeerse steered,
she mast hes/re heee hewed fresh hashes hyres, er the his tile Iilsts,
37h the seeth pest: sf eateries, heyeesl the :hrssils, th the iilissseesh, is, the
fish at hiesiee, see te had, he siesht, tressete
is her, hat; ef he see, at that thee, te seyhesiy; hat whet: hefizeeie es the erew I
thee shew see
i tweed’, these sheets, a httle essh fell; ef lieees, yet sheet tweety
eishees, whieh I .iete my iitt'lthii with mesh shfihzehy. were sesessl reeshets
is the esbie, sad a great: pewtiermherh, with aliases that" passes eii eewdes is.
its he the the meshets, i had he eeeasiee fer as I ieft there, has teeh
 
 
, some very
the powder-horn.- took a re-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely, as
also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home
again; and the same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat;
and in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had got in my new cave, and
not ‘carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be
a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils ; and, in a word, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several things of great use
to me: for example, I found in one a ne case of bottles, of an extraordinary
kind, and lled with cordial waters, ne and very good. The bottles‘held about
three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good
succades,‘or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled. I found
good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen and
white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths ; the former were
welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a
Besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found there
T
‘
a half of
also very
hot day.
,,three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all;
and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, ‘six doubloons of gold, and some
small bars or wedges ‘of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound. In
the other chest were some clothes, but of little value ; but, by the circumstances,
it must have belonged to the gunner’s mate; though there was no powder in it,
except two pounds of ne glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose,
for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by
this voyage‘that was of any use to me; for as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it; it was to me ‘as the dirt under my feet, and I would have given
_ it all for three or four pair of English shoes, and stockings, which were things I
greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many years. I had, indeed, got
two pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two drowned men whom
I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which were
very welcome to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either for ease or
service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman’s'
chest about fty pieces of eight, in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged
to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to some ofiicer, Well,
however, I lagged this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done
that before which I had brought from our own ship; but it was a great pity, as
I said, that the other part of this ship. had not come to my share ; for I am satised
I might have loaded my canoe several times over with money; which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe enough till I might have come
again and fetched it. .
Having now brought all my things on. shore, and secured them, I went back
to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore't‘o her old harbour, where
, .
F-l
r31:
_-r~ 1‘
\
[ F0101]! ZVEIV PRO/£6715‘. ‘ 139
I laid her- up, and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I
found everything safe and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after my old
fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough,
only that I was more vigilant than‘ I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not
go abroad so much; and if, at any time, I did stir with any freedom, it was
‘always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well satised the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many precautions, and such a load
of arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head, that was
always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable, was all these two
years lled with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island: for sometimes I was for making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of
my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another: and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured
to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. I have been, in all my circumstances, ‘
a meme/rm to those who,are touched with the general plague of mankind, whence,
for aught I ‘know, one-half of their miseries flow; I mean that of not being
satised with the station wherein God and Nature hath placed them: for, not to
i look back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice‘ of my father,
the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent
mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my coming into' this miserable
condition; for bad that Providence, which so happily seated me at the Brazils as
11 planter, blessed me with conned desires, and I could have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this "time, I ‘mean in the time of
my being in this island, one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils:
nay, I am persuaded that by the improvements I had made in that little time I
lived there, and the increase I should probably have made if I had remained, I
might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores: and what business had I
to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to
turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and time would have
so increased our'stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own door
from those whose business it was to fetch them? and though it had cost us some-
thing more, yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so
great a hazard. But as this is ordinarily the ‘fate of young heads, so reflection
upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years, or of the dear-
bought experience of time: so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the
mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my station,
but was continually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this
place: and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the
remaining part of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my
rst conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme'for my escape, and how,
and upon what foundation, I acted.
I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late voyage to the
' I; ‘W X m
Wmiwxkk my Md, up z/mfmi mimmzd mirm’jriy WWW” Wm}, mm my mmiitiw
m»? Q5» “whim: it Eilwirmmz 1 m1 mam Wé‘jiuikmg imih; 9i? Hmm I h ‘E1; [mm
mm mm m mm mm; fm 1 Md 2% 11mm 1W3: film?" it {mm Imiimw (2f
 
 
\v"
H
It Wm mm K'Xdfi‘ig mgmfg m ‘Mm mm}? in Mmmm fwmmmQEWWWM;11:22:12?
Mm mmniif mm m Wig mi“ @Miimijhin Wm Wing: in, m
i’mmmmk ziisapwzmmy WW Wm}. it‘mzjrith mm Emmy; m} immwmmg m} mmwimw wf
 
'm
'3 "E L
 
 
W
 
 
%m% WY my M mimi mmm mgzm, amiimmwg {mt mum by mm ximiizzzm
my than; @1621“: m mmp; my, mm; :3» wink m1, miéégm fml'hww ix in”; aim?‘ m 2% dmwm m immmmmhm mmwd
M WWW Mwt @mimi' Wmj’mgh Mmxfamghfmm M m hmmwmw
tmw: 1". mm mwz't' Mmizz ifiiiiyjgf M my in mimizrmm
w my mam? 1 MW m2}? 5% m WW“ iiimimwg Miami? mfiw M Uma
Iém M my Eiz mmm m Wig; In "my 11mm, m mi’
my @M (3mm: m“; 55mm? mm iffii» ilizrmd I ,, mmwrimgg ‘WWW
Emgmm M my m Him m ‘y'23w% my léilliiqwim with. m M
mmt, whmh I ma}, iiwd m Wm“ 3m MW Wim {WM in Hm: 4;, 214% mm: 1 did Wm miiézw m ma, {maxim aw
QWZM Mm whim ji. rxfxiggm imwaf WWW“ Immmm M mm m tiw W
hmm Mwm; km: “21ml "imwgrr mmwm it, and Wm if2€£113$k qwf wwmiimmimw
‘is?’
 
 
 
 
 
 
TERROR OF THE SAVAGES. ' 141
about it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same, and I
was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never really been exposed
to it. This furnished my thoughts with many very protable reections, and
particularly this'one: How innitely good that Providence is, which has provided,
in-its government of mankind, such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge
of things; and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the
Sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind and sink his spirits,
he is kept serene and calm, by having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to reect
seriously upon the real danger I had been in for‘ so many years in this very
island, and how I had walked about in the greatest security, and with all possible
tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a bill, a great tree, or
the casual approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind of '
destruction, viz., that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who would
have seized on me with the same view as I would on a goat or a turtle; and
havethought it no more crime to kill and devour me than I did of a pigeon or
a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknowledged, with
great humility, all these unknown deliverances were due, and without which I
must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands. \
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in con-
sidering thenature of these wretched creatures, I mean the savages,.and how it
came to pass in the world that the wise Governor of all things should give up
any .of His creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even
brutality itself, as to devour its own kind: but as this ended in some (at that
time) fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the world
these wretches lived in? how far off the coast was from whence they came? what
they ventured over so far from home for? what kind of boats they had? and why
I might not order myself and my business so that I might be as able to go
over thither as they were to come to me? .
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with myself
when I went thither; what would become- of me if I fell into the hands of these
savages; or how I should escape them if they attacked me; no, nor so much as
how it was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by some or
other of them, without any possibility of delivering myself: and if I should not
fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, ‘or whither I should bend
my course: none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my, way; but my
mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the
main-land. I looked upon my present condition as, the most miserable that could
possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into anything, but death, that
could be called worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with relief; or I might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I came
to some inhabited country, and where I .might nd‘some relief; and, after all,
14:: _ Roam/‘soar Car/$02.
perhaps I might fall‘ in with some Christian ship that might take me in; and if
the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to all
these miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an
impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the long continuance of my
troubles, and the disappointments I had met with in the wreck I had been on
board of, and where I had been ‘so near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed
for, namely, somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge of the place
where I was, and of the probable means of my deliverance. I say I was agitated
wholly by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence,
and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and
I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but the project of
a voyage to the main, which came upon me with such force, and such an im-
petuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such violence
that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as if I had been
in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, Nature,
as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it, threw me
into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but
Idid not, nor of anything relating to it: but I dreamed that as I was going out
in the morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and
eleven savages, coming to land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the
savage that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life; then I
thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove before my
fortication, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving
that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to
assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made him go up it, and carried
him ‘into my cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon .as I' had got
this man, I said to myself, “Now I may certainly venture to the main-land, for‘
this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to
go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and what to escape.” I waked with this thought; and was under
such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream,
that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself, and nding that
it was no more than a dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw
me into a good dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my only way to go
about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage into my pos-
session; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners, whom they had
condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But these thoughts
still were attended with this difculty, that it was impossible to effect this without
attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them all; and this was not only
a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but, on the other hand, I had
'-
ON THE WATCH. r43
greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat
the arguments which ‘occurred to me against this, they being the same mentioned
before; but though I had other reasons to offer now--viz., that those men were
enemies to -my life, and would devour me if they could; that it was self-
preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life,
and was acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting
me, and the like; I say, though these things argued for-it, yet the thoughts of
shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible tome, and such as
I could by no means reconcile myself to for a great while. However, at last,
after many secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities about it (for
all these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head a long time),
the eager prevailing desire‘ of deliverance at length mastered all the rest; and I
resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it
would. My next thing was to contrive how to do- it, and this indeed was very
difcult to resolve on; but as I could pitch upon. no probable means for it, so
I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came on shore,
and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures as the opportunity should
present, let be what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as often
as possible, and indeed so often that I was heartily tired of it; for it was above
a year and a half that I waited; and for great part of that time went out to
the west end and to the south-west corner of the island almost every day, to
look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very discouraging, and began .
to trouble me much, though I cannot say that it did in this case (as it had done
some time before) wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at
rst so careful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by
them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied myself able to
manage one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make them
entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct ‘them, and to prevent their
being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased
myself with this 'affair; but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing,'for no savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long musing
had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution), I was surprised one morning early by seeing no less than
ve canoes all on shore together on my side the island, and the people who
belonged to them all landed and out of my sight. .The number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they always came four
or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not téll what to think of it, or
how to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; so lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I put myself into all
the same postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good while, listening to
hear if they made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at
the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two
stages, as usual; standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by
the help of my perspective-glass, that they were no less than thirty in number;
that they had a re kindled, and that they had meat‘ dressed. How they had
cooked it, I knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing, in I know
not how many barbarous gestures and gures, their own way, round the re.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective. two
miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by,
and were now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them imme-
diately fall; being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden sword, for
that was their way; and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should be ‘ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch, seeing
himself a little at liberty, and unbound, Nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands,
directly towards me; I mean, towards that part of the coast where my habitation
was. I was dreadfully frightened, that I must acknowledge, when I perceived
him run my way; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the
whole body; and now I expected that part of my dream was coming to pass,
and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove: but I could not depend,
by any means, upon my dream, that the other savages would not pursue him
thither, and nd him there. However, I-kept my station, and my spirits began
to ‘recover when I found that there was not above three men that followed him;
and ‘still more was I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceed-
ingly in running, and gained ground on them; so that, if he could but hold it
for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I mentioned often in
the rst part of my story, where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
saw plainly. he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken
there; but when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though
the‘ tide was then up; but, plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes, or
thereabouts, landed, and ran with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the
third' could not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the others,
but went no farther, and soon after went softly back again; which, as it happened,
was very well for him in the end. I observed that the two who swam were yet
more than twice as long swimming over the creek than the fellow was that ed'
from them. It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly,.,that
now was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or ‘assistant; and
that I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature’s life. I imme-
diately ran down the .ladder with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns, fcir
 
 
me
they wete heth at the feet hi the ladder, It eheetteti het'ete, etiti gettittg tip
with the eettte heete he the tee tit" hilt, i eteeeeti tettetele tee tied
it very ehett ettt, end eh de'ten hiii, eleetteti ht way hetw re
” l, whet, ieehittg" et
tttiteeete the petetteti, elett te hire. that ti‘
‘t ' it :; httt ti eitlit heed te
titet ttethette ttigi tettti at the et thee
hint te eettte anti, in the teeth i etieeeeeti tettettie tee that
 
 
 
 
 
 
' 1'
tteettetee eetz'ee tree trite},
ittiitttt’ttti to thee tttehittg at ettee epett the tetetneet, i lttteeketi hint tietee with eteeit ht” pieeei leth 'te tite, l'teeeeee I wettiti ttet heee the heet; thettgh,
at that it teettlti net have eeeily heetti, eeti hetttg eet ef ef t, tee, they ttettiti eet heee ittteett whet te ttttititltt hi hi tieehtg kneeiteti thie
tellete tiee'tt, the with ptiteeeti etetttteti, if he heti iiieett ftighteeeti,
anti Ti etiteeeeri tewettie hint ; het i eeetet, eeteeieed pteeetttly he had
e hew etiti tt'tttft‘ht, ettti wee tittieg it te elteet the t it wee tittttt ehiigeti te
eheet at hire ehieh i tfiitfi, eeti hint at the that thee llihe tteet eetege
[With tied, httt heti thettgh he tee liteth hie etteteiee titliett httti ltiileti, ee
theeght, yet wee ee ttightettett with the tire and ttthitttt tit thy pieee that he
eteeti eteehwetiil, ettti eeithet eeete feteettl ttet wettt heeltttetti, he eeettteti
A‘!
rather inclined still to y than to come" on. I hallooed again to him, and made
signs to ‘come forward, which he‘ easily understood, and came a little way;
then stopped again, and then a little farther, and stopped again; and I could
then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had
just been to be killed, as his two enemies were. 'I beckoned to him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of;
and he came ‘nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token
of acknowledgment for saving his life. smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,
and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length, he came close to me; and
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground,
and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of
him, and encouraged him all I could. But there was‘ more work to do yet; for
I perceived the savage whom I had knocked down was not killed, but stunned
with the blow, and .began to come to 'himself: so I pointed to him, and, showed -
him the savage, that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear; for they were the rst sound of a man’s voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for above twenty-ve years. ‘But there was no time for such
reections now; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit up on the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be‘
afraid; butlwhen I saw that, I presented my other‘ piece at the man, as
if I' would shoot him; upon this my savage, for so I called him now,
made a motion to me to lend him ‘my sword, which hung naked in a belt
by‘ my side, which -I did. He no sooner had it but he runs to his enemy, and
at one blow out off his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have
done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one ‘who, I had reason
to believe, never saw a sword in his. life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so
sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will even cut off heads with
them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with
‘ abundance of gestures which I did not understand, laid ‘it down,_with the head of
the savage that he had killed, just before me. But that‘swhich astonished him
.most ‘was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off ;,so pointing to him, he
made signs to me to let him go to him; and I bade him go, as well as I, could. .
When he came- to him, he stood like one’ amazed, looking at him, turning him
rst on one side, then on the 'other; looked‘ at the wound the bullet had made,
which'it seems was just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great
quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead.
He took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might come 'after them.
Uppn this-he made signs to me that he should bury them with sand, that they
' might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs to him'
 
 
 
' them both in’ a quarter of an hour.
Jl/[Y rlfarv, FRIDA Y. 147
again to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in
the sand with his hands, big enough to bury the rst in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him; and did so by the other also; I believe he had buried
Then calling him away, I carried him, not
to’ my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part ‘of the island; so I
did not let my dream come to pass in that part, that he came into my grove for
shelter. Here I gave him bread and a_bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of
water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for from his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing
him a place where .I had laid some rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used
to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well’ made, with straight, strong
limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years
of age. He had a very good countenance, not a erce and surly aspect, brit
seemed to have something very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweet-
ness and softness of a European in his countenance, too, especially when he smiled.
His hair was long A'and black, not curled like ‘wool ; his forehead very high and
large; and a great v'ivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow‘, nauseous
tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had in it something very agreeable, though
not very easy to describe. ' His face was round and plump; his nose small, not
at like the Negroes’; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his ne teeth well set,
and as white as ivory. .
-After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he awoke again,
and came out of the cave to me; for Ihad been milking my goats, which I had
in the enclosure just by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying him-
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful
disposition, making a great many antic gestures to show it’. At last he lays his head
at upon,the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other ‘foot upon his head, as
he had done before ;r. and after this, made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude,
and submission imaginable, to let me know how he ‘would serve me so long as he
lived. I understood him in many things, and let him know I was very well
pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
Speak to me; and,‘ rst, I let him know his name should be FRIDAY, which was
the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory of the time. I likewise
taught him to. say Master, and then let him know that was to be my name; I
likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them. I
gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him,
and sop my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for him. I kept
there with him all that night; but, as soon as it waslday, I beckoned to him to
Come with me,'and let him know I would give him some clothes; at which he
seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where he
a.
lrii "
wit.
 
 
 
grimy was asap {f
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, but his appearance Of them air if can ; tifztlfif’lt gaze, and had left; th ir two ritomrarlaa “rind without any" a arm after “them.
"at I, war mat {mutant with tiiiamvery ; but lravin rirtiw iririire nourar ‘r, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
as?
 
 
neatly ‘mere suriaai y, I tr iak my man in hand, with the haw anti arrears at his l;
vary rig making hirri
,, vi rrra shed in mind rariw ta fuller very hl ‘
in my sjfieetarrl, ‘till,
r'ril
 
 
f;
 
 
I twp fur i’ had l,
at“ fill/lift. liihtri same to 1i” a, my
and. my heart; sank, within
‘tilirtii
a
 
 
tiff’ "
 
 
 
 
the hnrrrar raf
 
 
 
 
rt, vi
 
 
 
 
[ CLOTHH FRIDAY. ‘ l 149
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the ground
dyed with the blood, and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast they
had been making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls,
ve hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other
parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and
that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he had been one,
and that they had taken a great number of prisoners; all which were carried to
several places by those who had taken them in the ght, in order to feast upon
them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, esh, and whatever remained,
and lay them together on a heap, and make a great re upon it, and burn them
all to ashes. found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the
esh, and was still a cannibal in his nature ; but I discovered so much abhorrence at
the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it
---for I had, by some means, let him know that I would kill him if he‘ offered it.
Whenhe had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I fell to work
for my man Friday; and, rst of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I
had out of the poor gunner’s chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and
which, with a little alteration, tted him very well; and then I made him a jerkin
_of goat’s skin, as well as my skill wquld allow (for I was now grown a tolerably
good tailor); and I gave him a cap which I made of hare’s skin, very convenient,
and fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed, for the present, tolerably well,
and was mighty well :pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master.
It is true, he went awkwardly in these clothes at rst; wearing the drawers was
very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and
the inside of his arms—but a‘ little easing them where he complained they hurt
him, and using himself to them, at length he took to'them very well.
The next‘ day, after I came home to my hutch with him, I began to consider .
where. I should lodge him; and, that I might do well for him, and yet be per-
I fectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my
two fortications, in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the rst. As
there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-
case, and a door to it- of boards,_and set it up in the passage, a little within the
entrance; and, causing the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders, too; so that Friday could no way come at me in the
inside,of my innermost wall, without making so much noise in getting over that
it must, needs awaken me ; for my rst wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles,‘ covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill; which
was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the'
hole or place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind
U
of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on‘ the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great noise: as to weapons,
I took them all into my side every night. But I needed none of all this pre-
caution; for never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was
to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his
very affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare say
he would have sacriced his life for the saving mine, upon any occasion what-
soever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon
convinced me that I needed no precautions for my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that
however it had pleased God in His providence, and in the government of the
works of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His creatures the
best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet
that He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same
affections; the same sentiments of kindness and obligation; the same passions and
resentments of wrongs; the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, delity, and all the
capacities of doing good and receiving good, that He has given to us; and that
when He, pleases to offer them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay,
more ready, to apply them to the right uses for .which they were bestowed than
we are. This made me very melancholy sometimes, in reecting, as the several
occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and
by the knowledge of His word added to our_understanding‘; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I
might judge by this poor savage, wo'uld make a much better use of it than we
did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade the sovereignty of
Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of
things, that should hide that sight from some, and reveal it to others, and yet
expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with
this conclusion: rst, That we did not know by what light and law these should
be condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the nature of His being,
innitely holy and just, so it could not be but if these creatures were all
sentenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of \sinning' against that
light which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was not
discovered to us; and, secondly, That still, as we are all the clay in the hand of
the Potter, no vessel could say to Him, “Why hast Thou formed me thus?”
But to return to my new companion: I was greatly delighted with hll, and
made it my business to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and'helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand me when
I spoke; and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so I
merry,'so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but understand me,
or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that could I but
FIND)! Y TA UGHT AND T RAINED. I 5 I
have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from
the place while I lived. ‘
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought that, in
order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal’s stomach, I ought to let him taste other esh; so I took him out with
me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending io kill a kid out of my
own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she~goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I catched liold of
Friday: “ Hold,” said I, “stand still ;”, and made signs to hiin not to stir: imme-
diately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did‘ not
know nor could imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised; trembled, and
shook, and looked so amazed that I thought he would have sunk down. He did
not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped ‘up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded; and, as I found presently, thought I was
resolved to kill him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily see the
meaning was _to pray me not to kill him. I
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm; and taking
him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he' did; and while he was wondering,
and looking to see how the creature was killed,I loaded my gun again. By-and-by
I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree within shot ; so, to let Friday
understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again, pointed at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though. I _thought it had been a hawk; I
i say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot,
to let him see I would make it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird ; accordingly-‘I red, and bade him look, and immediately he
saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had
said to him; and I found he was‘ the more amazed because he did not see me
put anything into the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful fund
of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything
near or far off ;and the astonishment this created in himwas such as could not
wear off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch’ it for several days after ; but he would speak to it and talk to it, as if it
had answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of
him, was to desire it not to kill him.‘ Well, after his astonishment was,a little over
at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I‘ had shot, which he did, but
stayed some time; -for the parrot, not being quite dead, had uttered away a
good distance from the‘ place where‘ she fell: however, he found her, took her ‘up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun
before, I took this advantage to‘ charge the gun again, and to let him see me do
-it, that I might be ready for any .other mark that might present; but nothing more
1 5 2 ' Roszrvsozv CR USOE.
offered at that time: so I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took
the skin off, and cut it -out.as well as I could; and having a pot t for that’ pur-
pose, I boiled or stewed some of the esh, and made some‘ very good broth.
After’ I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it very well: but that which was ‘strangest to him was to see me
eat salt with it. . He made a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat; and,
putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and
sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I
took some meat into my mouth without salt; and I pretended to spit and ‘sputter
for want of salt, ‘as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would not do; he
would never care for salt with his meat, or in his broth; at least, not for a great
while, and then but a very little. '
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast him
the next ‘day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before
the re on a string, as. I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles
up, one on each side of the re, and one across on the top, and tying the string
to the cross-stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very
much; but when he came to taste the esh, he took so many ways to tell me
how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him: and at last he told
me, as well as he could, he would never eat- man’s flesh‘ any more, which .I ‘was
very glad to hear. ’ '
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out,. and sifting it in
the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the meaning of it‘was, and
that it was to make bread of; for after that I let him see me make my bread,
and bake it, too; and in a little time Friday was able -to do all the work for
me, as well as I could do it myself. ,
I began now to consider that, having two. mouths to feed instead of 'one, I
must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence
,in the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not onliy.very- willingly and
very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what.it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him,and myself too. .He-appeared very sensible of that part, and
let me know that he thought I had much more labour upon me on his ‘account.
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harderlfor me, if I would tell
him what to do,
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.r \Friday began
to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost everything I- had occasion
to call for, and of every place I had to send him~to, and talk a great- deal .to
me; so that, in short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before; that is to ‘say, about speech.~ Be-'
sides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to [me more and more every day, '
r'r‘nv ant ,hhfvnr it; 5:
 
and I hngan really tn lnve ereatnre; and en his an i helieve he ran it fnr him ever , tn fnvn anything hefnrn.
 
 
ninth ti
had a mind nnnn in try if had any
hankering innlinntinn tn his nwn nnnntry
again; and having taught him hnghah an well
than he nrnihi answer niin nhnnst: tynnninn,
nshnri hinir whether the nntinn that; he he“
lnngen tn never nnnrjnererii in hnttln ht
whinh he nrnii and “Yes, yes, we
always tight the hertnrg” that is, he meant‘,
ninth] get the hatter in ii/ht and an we be
gan the ihllnwing diannnrnn
.rl/hnhnnn the inner hen
nnrnn yrni tn lite tahnn then, iiiriri " yli
My natinn iirent ii'ttifiit, fnr ail that.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nw if
ynnr nntian tlrrnrn,
hnw flhffhit n'n tn he
tnhen h
[Teri/‘fay. y rnnrn
rnnny than nay nntinn, in
nln where the they with nnn, twn, three,
and in my nntitni them in the ynndnr
, , plane, where nn wan;
,W, (g 1 l ' here my nntinn nnn,
it hthltih Inli» twn, " it tinnininni.
.rirfnrrnnwwh'nt why did
nnt ynnr nntln rnenver “ynn frrnn the hands nf ynur nnerninn than?
.itri/hiiy. nth, nnn, awn, three, and hire, and niahn inn gn the eanne;
rny nntinn have he eannn that time.
rilrfnsnrn liirhiiay, and what: tines ynnr nntinn he with the merit take?
iliin harry them away and eat them, as these did?
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘at
FrIO’ay.—~Yes, my nation‘ eat mans too: eat all up.
Masha—Where do they carry them?
Friday—Go to other place, where they think. ~
Il[aSz'eIf.—-Do they come hither?
Friday—Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.
jlzSten—Have you been here with them?
Frz'a'ay.-l-Yes, I been here (points to the N.W. side of the island, which, it
seems, was their side). .
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the savages
‘ who used to come -on shore on the farther part of the island, on the said man-
eating occasions that he was now brought for: and, some time after, when I took
the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he
presently knew the place, and told me he‘ was there once, when they ate up twenty
men, two women, and one child: he, could not tell twenty in 'English, but he
numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell
them over. '
I have told this passage because it introduces what follows; that after this
discourse I had, with him, I asked him how ‘far it was from our island to the
shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me there was no
danger; no canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea, there was a
current and wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming
in; but I afterwards understood ‘it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux
of the mighty river ,Oroonoko, in the mouth of which river, as ‘I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which I perceived to the W. and N.W.
was the great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I
asked Friday, a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea,
the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people,ibut could get no other name than Caribs: from whence I easily under-
stood that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana", and ‘onwards to
St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the moon (that was, be-
yond the setting of the moon, which must be west from their country) there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, ‘and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before; and that they had. killed much mansW-that was his word: by all
which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties' in America had been
spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all the nations, from
father to son. '
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island, and get '
among those white men: he told me, “Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe.” I
could not understand what he meant by “two canoe,” till at last, with great dif-
culty, I found he meant it must be in a large, great boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday’s discourse began to relish with me very well; and from this
R UDMIENTS 0F RELIGION. I 5 5
time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I might nd an opportunity
to make myescape from this place, and that this poor savage might be a means
to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he began
to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of.
religious knowledge in ‘his mind; particularly I asked him one time‘ who made
him. The poor creature did not understand me at all, but thought I had asked
him ‘who was his father: but I took it by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me,
“It was one Benamuckee, thatlived beyond all ;” he could describe nothing of
this great person, but that he was very old, “much older,” he said, “than the
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars.” I asked him then, if this old
person had made all things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence, said, “All things‘ said ‘O l’ to
him.” ' I asked him if the people who die in his country went away anywhere.
He said, “Yes; they all went to Benamuckee.” Then I asked him whether those
they ate up went thither too. He said, “Yes.”
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of‘ the true God:
, ‘I told him that the great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up towards
heaven; that He governed the world by the same power and providence. by which
He made it; that He'was omnipotent, and could do everything for us, give every-
thing to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He
listened with great attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being ‘sent to redeem us', and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and
His being able to hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day, that if our
God could hear us, up beyond the sun, He must needs be a greater God than
their ‘Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they
Went up to the great mountain where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him if
ever he went thither to speak to him. He said, “No ; they never went that were
young men ; none went thither but the old men,” whom he called their Oowokakee ;
that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they
Went to say ‘0 1’ (so he called saying prayers) and then came back and told them
what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, 'that there is priestcraft even among
the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy .of making a secret
' of religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not
only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the world,
even among the most brutish and barbarous savages.
I\- endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told him that the
pretence of their old men going up to the_'mountains to say “0 l” to their god
Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he said was
much more so; that if they met with any answer, or spoke with anyone there,
it must be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long discourse with
him about the devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
156
ROBINSON CA’USOE.
'but why not kill the devil now; not kill great ago?”
O
worshipped instead'of God, and as God, and the many .stratagems he made use
of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions
and to our affections, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause
us even to be our own tempters, and run uponour own destruction by our own
choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the
I devil as it was about the being of a God: Nature assisted all my arguments to
evidence to him even the necessity of a greatFirst Cause—an overruling, govern-
ing Power-_--a secret directing Providence; and of the equity and justice of
paying homage to Him that made us, and the like: but there appeared nothing
of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original, his being, his nature;
and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and
the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural
and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a great
deal to him of the power of God, His omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being
a consuming re to the workers of iniquity; how, as He had made us all, He
could destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he listened- with great
seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been telling him how the devil
was God’s enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat
the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world,
and the like. “Well,” says Friday, “ but you say God is so strong, so great; is
He not much strong, much might as the devil?” “Yes, yes,” says I, “Friday,
God is stronger than the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him down under our feet, and to enable us to resist his temptations
and quench his ery darts.” “But,” says he again, “if God much strong, mu'ch
‘ might as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?”
I was strangely surprised at this question; and after all, though I was now an old
man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualied for a casuist, or a solver of
difficulties ; and at rst I could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to hear
him, and asked him what he said; but he was too earnest for an answer to forget
his question, so that he repeated it in the very same broken words as above. By
this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, “God will at last punish
him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and he is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting re.” This ‘did not satisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my own words, “Reserve at‘ last! ’ me ‘no understand:
“You may as well ask me,”
says I, “why God does not kill you or me, when we do wicked things here that
offend Him: we are preserved to repent and be pardoned.” He muses a while on
this: “Well, well,” says he, mightily affectionately, “that well: so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.” Here I was run down by him
to the last. degree: and it was a testimony to me,‘ how the mere notions of
Nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
and of a worship or homage due to the ‘supreme being of God, as the consequence
of our nature, yet nothing but Divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
v»
and M Imwmxwmr at mm mml M (I'Zzmi’ wmm ; I my} mmimzingg 211w: a
mwz’lmmm fmzf’m mm mm {KWHX aw w in Hf'lfii 53ml; Mfli Mwm Hmmmm, dim géw'migwk
M min" ll‘mvzil mi? iwimmf 6mm, 1; Hm Wami. mi (Iilmi? ‘zmd Mm ‘ijwiré
M Cémfig pmmimmm m gxgmm mm mmmim mfg H W; mwfzmwy imtmrma m?" m :mia w? in mwmg; Eamimmdggw M {ffmh Mm
alumni; M zwl’vmimfz.
(Ziwizah mm} M mmmm Immmmd {m m; M a tlm fW mwmmn
T41:
 
 
 
 
K thwww’m Mmii mix/£2 prggzmm dimmm ‘kmtwém mm am} my mum, riimg' up
 
“I wwmgizmiaw Imwiw A xmmmma“ 1;? 21>, 253?}
hmtiily ma mpmm gamma mddm mmmmm 4% Wing; wt; Hmm mdimg him My wmw
thing; & ,gmd» Waxy Mi”, 1 wzz‘zwimmly pmyw m QM} that: Wm wmmi mm m
imtmm minggly thif Wm gmvmgm; ‘,cwsaiitimgg My giwiriit m mm; m?‘ magi: Wm
igmxrzmt czmmmm m Wi‘iflfiv m m M m kzfmwlmw mi” 65ml in, lmiagy mimmiiimg
him w and WWW Wm rm m smk; 5724:} m him fmm mm mm; mi” {3mm
that: m M: mimwimm m mmmd, and his; mm mwza£
Whma, ‘m mmm: m rmég mimm mm a bang {iiimwumm with him Wmn Wbjm’a M mmmm mi” man m wimr m“ m Wmim mmi mi” dmmfim 0f m mszmrhm {mm [hwwmwwwizw M mqéimmmmw ‘MWWMWM (Md,
and m1" Lam j’wzm, fiwz'm mismimd m hit m WM. I maid
Why mm Rwdwmm mm mm m m mmm M hm Wm WM {7%
Amwmm; and, Eww, Fm" mm mzmjm MW; :flixiiw zmggm ma rm :amm in mdmpw
tinny; Mam: W62: mama mly' m 1W2 mw M hmw M lwmh mm
 
 
miss: Hm mmmmy
.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods I took
for this poor creature’s instruction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all that
act upon the same principle will nd, that, in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that I either did not know, or had
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon search-
ing into them, for the information of this poor savage; and I had more affection
in my inquiry after things upon this ‘occasion than ever I felt before: so that,
J'whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had reason to be
thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation
grew comfortable to ‘me beyond measure: and when I reflected that in this
solitary life which I had been conned to, I had not only been moved to look ‘
up to heaven myself, and to seek the Hand that had brought me here, but ‘was
now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught
I know, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of
religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know
Whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I had so often thought ‘the most dreadful of all
afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the‘ remainder of my time; and the
conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me .was such as made
the three years which we lived there together .perfectly and completely happy, if
any such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary state. This
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason
to hope, and bless God for it, that'we were equally penitent, and comforted,
restored penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and, no farther off
from His Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England. I always applied
myself, in reading the Scriptures, to let him know, as well as I could, the '
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his seridus inquiries and questionings,
made me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than
I should ever have been by my own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot
refrain from observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life—
viz., how innite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of God,
andof the doctrine of salvation by ,Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading
the Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and of laying
hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and
obedience to all God’s commands, and this without any teacher or instructor, I
mean human; so the same plain instruction sufciently served to the enlightening
this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I have known
few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention which have happened in
the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines or schemes of church
I and take every part in its order.
FMDA Y’s JVA 270w. I 5 9
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, and, for aught I can yet see, they
have been to the rest of the world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the
Word of, God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit of
God teaching‘ and instructing us by His Word, leading us into all truth, rind
making us both willing and obedient to the instruction of His Word. And I
cannot see the least use that thi: greatest knowledge of the disputed points of
religion, which have made such confusions in the world, would have been to us,
if we could have obtained it; but I must go on with the historical part of things, -
I
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he could
understand almost all I said to him, and speak uently, though in broken English,
to me, I acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much of it as related
_to my coming into this place; how I had lived there, and how long: I let him
into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and-taught him
how to shoot. I gave .him a knife, with which he was wonderfully delighted;
and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but much moreuseful upon many
occasions. '
I described to him the countries of Europe, particularly England, which I came
from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one another,
and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account
of the .wreck which I had been on board} of, and showed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay: but she was all beaten in pieces long before, and quite
gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then, but was now fallen almost
all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked.him what it was he studied upon. At last, says he, “Me
see such boat like come to place at my nation.” I did not understand him
a good while; but at last, when I had examined further into it, I understood
by him that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon the country
where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of
weather. I presently imagined that some European ship must have been cast away
upon their coast, and the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but was so
‘dull that I never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they might come: so I only inquired after the description of
the boat. -
' Friday described the boat to‘ me well Enough ; but brought me better to under-
stand him when he added with some warmth, “We save the white mans from
drown.” Then I presently asked if there were any white mans, as he called them,
in the boat. “Yes,” he said; “the boat full of white mans.” I asked him how
many. He told upon his ngers seventeen. *I asked him then what became of
them.‘ He told me, “They live, they dwell at my 'nation.”»
This put new thoughts into my head i for I presently imagined that these might
be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the sight of my island,
as I now called it; and who, after the ship was‘struck on the rock and they saw
her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild shore among the savages. Upon this I inquired of him more critically what
had become of them. He assured me they lived still there; that they had been
there about four years; that the savages left them alone, and gave them victuals
I to live. I asked him how it came to pass that they did not kill them and eat
1)
them. He said, “No, they make brother with them; that is, as I understood
him, a truce ;' and then he added, “They no eat mans but when make the war-
ght ;” that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to ght with them,
and_ are taken in battle. I
It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the top of the hill, at
the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I had, in a clear day,
discovered 'the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather being very
serene, looks very earnestly towards the main-land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him.
I asked him what was the matter. “ Oh, joy!” says he; “oh, glad! there see my
country, there my nation!” I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness,
as if he had a mind to be in his own country again. This observation of mine
put a great many thoughts into me, which made me, at rst, not so easy about
my new man Friday'as I was before; and I made no doubt but that, if, Friday
could'get back to his own nation again,.he would not only forget all his religion,
but all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough .to give his countrymen
an account of me, and come back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me, at which he might be as" merry as he used to be with
'those of his enemies, when they were taken 'in war. But I wronged the poor,
honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry afterwards. However, ‘as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
and not so familiar and kind - to him as before; in which I was certainly in the-
wrong too; the honest grateful creature having no thought about it but what
consisted with the best principles both as a religious Christian and as a grateful
friend; as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction. '
While my jealousy of him lasted, ‘you may be sure I was every day pumping
him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which I suspected were~
in him; but I found everything he said was so honest and so innocent, that I
could nd nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness,
he made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in the least perceive that
I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit. . '
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at sea, so that,
we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said, “ Friday, do not you wish
yourself in your own country, your own nation?” “Yes,” he said, “I be much
0 glad to be at my own nation.” “What‘would you do there?” said I: “would
you, turn wild again, eat men’s flesh again, and be a savage, as you were before?”
MW [MA M I
 
 
“Q3, mm ; Y'yri’zw WM Hwm
1% WWW M1 wf mmmmy ma}, Mmkiwg Mia 1mm? mink W
m 1M2: Wad; M1 iwizm m wmy Klémii; M, tiwzfm. m azaiax~zwmi;wmw;%;g {Ilélimhifw milk; ;
mm £22m mm WMM’ “ VHF'W mm?” I m Xfaiirm “may Wm km Wm,” Imwkw
gmm m MM} Mg} mm wig}? M‘ mm; my my MM ma; Hwy Wmimg mm WWW
Mm: Ifxmzmt; my whim Hmiiy wmm m hmwm Mama their}? Mwmd mmth
{3f M mam M thm mmfm m m 7Eiimm, "Fmm X 'égki‘id him if WWW hawk 1% Hmm HQ: mfxfxiimii m imz:. Md mm 21m» W23: qizamhii mm: Wim m m 1
WM Mm I Wmgmi mam: my, aizzgxmimii {my him, mid
mm 3% Wmld if” II Wm. ‘with Ef'zim M 1 gm M
1,; ‘M Mm Wm Wit “if I wzim tmm”
“Wm my,” M3,, “Km ymm WWW "m wt Wm;
rm: mmm mmm rmmh. mm: mm? mmm W
 
 
 
 
Wm; mil; imm WW ‘Z
Md mm @Ymmimi
and ZWWIIi }'T’iif% Mitzi? Md
rm h Wmm thmm
MW WWW MM mm, m
WM} mmhih MW kiwi? m
Wfm £14} wwmtmm mmim 16mm m”
mmm mmm Em mmi Mwmta, I
'Wvhm magma» mm kfimy im M 1%)}; Fi/WMEZMXY WWWEU Qlymm thi»; tizfam, 11 mmtmm WWW a?“ mind m Wmwum WWEK”, 211mm
1%? maxim 1m~r§§£¥iy gm mm mm mammal mm WW5}? mama: my} dfmb ipzmmmm m m'mgmmw mm; mmmmgg mm if 6mm}? nwxiggm find‘ Mum miwirztmdi
w fmm H'Mfwify Wm ail-“m: aiiwmmwty and 21% mmxpzmy "Eamw mm X, {mm fzrmm m Mm}? mw {3% MW: MMWQ? mm aim}? witmmi
hékpqk 5%,; Mm“ 051mm I timk WMW m WWW. again?‘ WW mi" iwmrm zzqmii
"mzd. Mm I WWW him a, 1mm w gm Imézk m M; mm mmmw; mm L mmmm
mmim him My my fizfiggzmg whim}, 27m Mimi: WHTWZ“ mm M Mmm WM having;
mi" Wéwél‘fi“ (my I, zazlmiya km it :gxm'lk Wm WWW), l hmmgght it: mm?
Mmwmi ix irximg, Wéi‘ 7mm"; "vsmzfm imm it, 1 mm m mm a mwizm dmmrmw
tkz'limw m managing it, and WWW 1mm i2 gm mmm 2m ewifét amd "£21m :zzaggmm 2m 1
mum“ 55m Mm}; m im I mid in him? M“ Wézil, mmr, Wiaimy, Ema gig} m
11
your nation?” He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because
he thought the boat too small to go so far. I then told him I had a bigger; so
the next day I went to the place where the rst boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into the water. He said that was big enough; but then,
as I, had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years there,
the sun 'had split and dried it, that it was rott'en. Friday told me that such a
boat would do very well, and would carry “much enough vittle, drink, bread ;”---
that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so xed upon my design of going over
with him to the continent, that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him. He asked me
again, “Why you angry mad with Friday ?---what me done?” I asked him what
he meant. I told him_ I was not angry with him at all. “No angry!” says he,
repeating the words several times; “why send Friday home away to ‘my nation?”
“Why,” says I, “Friday, did not you say you wished you were there?” “Yes,
yes,” says he, “wish we both there; no wish Friday there, no master there.” In
a word, he would‘ not think of going there without me. “I go there, Friday?”
says I; “what shall I do there?” He turned very quick upon me at this.
“ You do great deal much good,” says he; “you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life.” “Alas,
Friday!” says I, “thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man
myself.” “Yes, yes,” says he, “ you teachee me good, you teachee them good.”
“No, no, Friday,” says I, “you shall go without me; leave me here to live by
myself, as I did before.” He looked confused again at that word; and running
to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it
to me. “What must I do with this?” says I to him. “You take kill Friday,”
says he. “What must I kill you for?” said I again. He returns very quick-—
“What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away.”
This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so
plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a rm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away from me,
if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection to me, and ~i
that nothing could part him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire
to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good: a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so
I had‘ not the least thought, or intention, or ‘desire of undertaking it. But still
I found a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, founded on the supposi—
tion gathered from the former discourse, that there were seventeen bearded‘ men
there; and therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday. to nd
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake
the voyage. There were trees enough in the island to have built a little eet,
not of periaguas or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the main thing I
A NEW CANOE MADE. 163
looked at was, to get one so near the water that we might launch it when ,it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed, at rst. At last, Friday pitched upon a
tree; for I found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was ttest for
it; -nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call (the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for‘burning
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boat, but I showed him
how rather to cut it with tools; which, after I had showed him how to use, he
did very handily; and in about a month’s hard labour, we nished it and made it
very handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how to
handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight’s time to get her along, as it were, inch by
inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when she was in, she would have
carried twenty men with great ease. ' 0 ‘33
When she, was in the water, though she was so big, it amazed me to see with
what dexterity and how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over in
her. “Yes,” he said; “we venture over in her very well, though great blow wind.”
However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make
a mast and a sail, and to t her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that
was easy enough to get; so. I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, and which there was great plenty of in the island, and I set
Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order
it. But as to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or
rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had had them now six-and-twenty
‘years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that
I should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all
rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so. However, I found two pieces
which appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work; and with a
great deal of pains, and awkward, tedious stitching, you may be sure, for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England
11 shoulder-of-mutton ;sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit
at the top, such as usually our ships’ long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew
how to manage, because it was such a one as I used in the boat in which I_
made my escape from Barbary, as related in the rst part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work----viz., rigging and tting my
mast and sails; for I nished them very complete, making a small stay, and a,
Sail or foresail to it, to assist if we should turn to windward; and, which was more
than all, I xed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with. And though I
was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even the
necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do (it, that at
last I brought it,to pass; though, considering the many dull contrivances I had
for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what belonged
merrier Cs?
 
 
 
 
 
 
garish at my least; far, theugh he kitetr very well hear is lltttltiit‘ the
ease he ltlttttt“ aethiag ef what helaagetl ta a sail
sail ratjltler ; tlltti was the mast sraasetl ‘Wi saw ra e tr ta stall sis is ‘the hy
the railrier, stall heir tie sail. jilih t rirl "ilietl this
we er th arty, the eaarse we sailed tQi‘lllilig‘tttil ,1 if
say, she he pair this, it e sttsail lilte aria ttt'iltlltmtitlllti’tl
aatl atriaseti. tie/rarer, with little ass, i as
things familiar ta him, rial he ilietraie
saiiar, tZhit tlait as t tie
sealed the hire aatlerst
 
 
 
 
 
Air the
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
l
 
 
' i
' atai ‘very l
Oh the silt heat], that
very littl elearl either, aati sealers at
iterer iii these parts, th
 
 
 
 
re was
the earapt s, s as hy "til the share his tltllft’t errata ill the "i
s
a
siaa hit
the has at. "
s
 
 
 
 
the were always to he
 
 
 
 
re tl rat
1 was has
 
 
l hail tl'iis erettae
ter is he left eat ai
hahitatiari heiag tjaite
 
at
at a
ll the aariirersary hi my here with lit tltlllltf tl'iariltfaiat.
(1i tltii far raereies as at rst ; aati
hail saith eaase at atlraetrls shah a‘itiitiaaal tsstiaiaaies at the
 
 
'? iii/r ti tie,
is
 
 
asasr a art/res " l
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
t1
first, i liiarl rattah were as hair, hariag"
heritleaee that are, sad. great herpes
 
 
SA VAGES A GAIN. I 6 5
I had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible im-
pression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that I should not
be another year in this place. However, I went on with my husbandry; digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when I kept more within
doors than at other times. I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my
rafts from the ship; and hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark, I made
my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to oat in; and then, when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay
dry as to the tide from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many
boughs of trees, so thick that she was as well thatched as a house; and thus we
waited for the months of November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure. '
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my design
returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage. And the
rst thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores
for.our voyage; and intended, in a week or a fortnight’s time, to open the dock.
and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this kir (1.
when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could
nd a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs, as well as the esh. Friday had not been gone long when he came
running back, and ew over my outer wall, or fence, like ., one that felt not the
ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him,
he cries out to me, “0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!” “What’s the
matter, Friday?” said I. “Oh! yonder, there,” says he; “one, two, three
canoes; one, two, three!” By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six;
but on inquiry I found there were but three. “Well, Friday,” says I, “do not
be frightened.” So I heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw the
poor fellow was most terribly scared, for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come back to look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and
the poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with him. I com-
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and
that they would eat me as well as him. “But,” said I, “Friday, we must resolve
to ght them. Can you ght, Friday?” “Me shoot,” says he; “but there come
many great number.” “No, matter for that,” said I, ‘again ; “our guns will fright
them that we do not kill.” 80 I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him,
he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He said,
“Me die, when you bid die, master.” So I went and fetched a good dram of
rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a
I great deal left. When he had drunk it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and load- them with large swan-shot, as big as small.
pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and
ve small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each.
I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-glass, and_went up to
the side of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I found quickly by my
glass that there were one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these
three human bodies: a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more than, as I had
observed, was usual with them. I observed also that they landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore
was low, and where a thick wood came close.almost down to the sea. This, with
the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came about, lled me with
such indignation that I came down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved
to go down to them, and kill ‘them all; and asked him if he would stand by~me.
He had now got over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram
Ihad given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die
when I, bid die.
In this t of fury I took rst and divided the arms which I had charged, as
before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol _to stick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his shoulder, and I tbok one pistol and the other three myself; and
in .this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket,
and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I
charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything
till -I bid him, and in the meantime not to speak a word. In this posture I
fetched‘a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek
as to get‘ into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them before I should
be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I began to
abate my resolution—I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their number,
for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them-—
nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what
occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood,
to attack people who had neither done nor intended me any wrong ?—-who, as to
me, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster, being in
'them a token, indeed, of God’s having left them, with ;the other nations of that
part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman courses, but did not
call me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner
of His justice—that whenever He thought t He would take the cause into His
own hands, and by national vengeance punish them for national crimes; but that,
in the meantime, it was none of my business—that it was true Friday might justify
it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not say
the same-with regard to myself. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself‘
A TTA CK ‘ON THE SA VA 655. I 67
near them that'I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act then
as God should direct; and that unless something offered that was more a call to
me' than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible wariness and
silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of
the wood on the side which was next to them, only that one corner of the wood
lay between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a
great tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree,
and bring me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing. He did
so,and came immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there—that they were all about their re eating the esh of one of their prisoners,
and that another lay bound upon the sand a little from‘ them, whom he said they
would kill next ; and this red the very soul within me. He told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded men .whom he had told me of, that
came to their country in the boat. I was lled with horror at the very naming of
the white bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw'plainly by my glass a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his ‘hands and his feet tied with ‘ags,
or things like rushes, and that he was a European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond "it, about fty yards ‘nearer
to the place where I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might come -
at undiscovered, and that then I should be within half a shot of them; so I with-
held my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then came to a little rising ground, which gave me a
full view of them at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen ‘of the dreadful wretches sat
on the ground, all close huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their re, and
they were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday;
“Now, Friday,” said I, “do as I bid thee.” Friday said he would. “Then,
Friday,” said I, “do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing.” So I set down
one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him
do the like; then asking him if he was ready, he said,~ “Yes.” “Then re at
them,” said I; and at the same moment I red also.
‘ Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on {he side he shot he killed
two of them, and wounded three more; and on my side I killed one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them
that were not hurt jumped .upon their feet, but did not immediately know which
way to run, or which way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruc-
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
Observe what I did; so, as soon as the rst shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he saw me cock
and present; he did the same again. “Are you ready, Friday?” said I. “Yes."
ttiti [i was...
he, “i tiy, their,” saisl l, ‘i is aarae ei i ”‘ aarl with that i tired,
agaia aaiaag the araasetl wretehes, aritl as as iiritiay ; aarl ear were haw
leatletl with wl‘iat l eall swarsshet, er striali pistalsliiallets, we thearl eaiy twa rlrap ;
hat starry waaarletl, that they raa sheet yelliag earl, sereaaiirig raati
ereatares, all hlaetly, sari aiiest e'f theta aiiserahly waaatlerl; whereaf three there
fell aaieltly after, theagh hat aaite
dearl.
“ aw, Friday,” said i, dawa
the rlisehargea jilittttti, arid talriag tip
harsher that was yet leadetl, “ iiiiilew
are,” whieh he set with a sisal
ei eearage; apart whielii l rashetl eat
at the weed sari shaweti myself, aatl
lirirlay elase at say that, sees as
pereeiretl they the l sheatetl
as laaii as i eaalrl, aarl hatle iirlriay
tie se the, atrial rsaahag;r as seals, whieh hy the way was set very
fast, heiag laatietl with areas as l was,
i wattle tlireetiy rewards the j/Iiltiiilli” sis“
litl’l, whe was, as sairl, iyiag arise
the heaeh er, sitters, hetweea the pleas
where they sat the lllliie twe
hatehers whe were jest geiiag ta werlr
with him had left hire at the serjjirise
at ear tire, aatl ia a terrihle
is the seaside, aria had jarajaerl
late a eases, sari three there all the
rest shade the seats way. i taraerl th
Friday, aritl hatie hire step ierwartls
sari at these j; he ‘aatlersteatl
are immediately, sari tarsal/rig? sheet;
ihrty yards wearer there, he shat; at
there sari l thaaght he "killed them all, far i saw there all as at heap hate
the heat, thaagh ll saw twe sf theta ap agaia attieltly i hewerer, he killed twa
ei' theta, earl waaarleti thirtl as heat he lay tlaws is the hattera at the heat
as if h hatl heea rleati,
liihile ray iriaa liriiiay tiretl at them, I pallerl eat my k'aife sari eat the ilags
that haaarl the sear sietiia; sari laesiag his hassle sail i l lifted lllt‘ll are, sad
him, is the llertegaese teagae, wit/rat, he was, its aaswererl, iia Latia,
Christiaaas; hat was as wealt sari faiat; that he eaaid searee stead er l
reek ray hettle eat hi my earlier, ttt‘ltl it hits, sighs that he shaalti
rlriak, whieh he tlitl ; ass i hire it raises at hrearl, whieh he ate, illhea i;
him what eeaatryraaa he was, sari .iilsaagaele; aria heiag little
 
*” rats rsisreas srasewae ear t rest
at an etain. the
teeeeetetl, let tne knee, lljt" all the aigna he eenltl neaalhly ntalte, heat tnneh he
watt tn the tleht the tale rlelieetanee. “heighten” aaitl l‘, with aa tnneh lilpanlah an
ll eenltl make an, “ we ntlll talk. altetnattla, hat we meet; light t’ltl’t”; ll yen have
any attength left, take thin piatel and ettettl, anal lay hliltltll yen.” teelt theta
eety thanltfally; and ne aeenet had he the anna in hie hantla, hat, an if they had.
pet new ‘elegant "late hlnt, he flew nnen hie tnnttletera like a they, and had eat tee
 
it when aeatn aateae aataaan teaatenaa“ (a. tea}.
at them. in pleeea in an lnatant; let the teeth in, an the "whale area a atttptlee te»
theta, an the peer eteatntee nete an tnneh ftlghtenetl ‘with the nelae et eat pleeea
that they ‘tell dean let there atnaaetnent antl. feet, and heel an ntete ‘newer tn
attetnnt their earn eaeane, than their hatl tn tealat eat that: atailw that nan
the eaae et' theee free that lltltlay that at in the heat; the at thtee at them fell
with, the heat they teeeltetl, an the ethet tee tell nlth the ftlght. I
I kept my nleee in any hantl atl'll nlthent thing, being willing tn keen thatge teatly, heeaaae l glean. the nanlattl tiny piatel and anneal; an l ealletl
tn llrltlay, and hatle “hint l‘tltt en tn the tree tltetn tattenee we heat lltetl, antl feteh
the arena nhleh lay theta that had heen tllaehatgetl, whleh he did with gteat twill“
neat; then glalnjtgi hlnt tnnaltet, eat tle'atn ntyaelf tn leatl all the teat
attain, and thenit eetne tn when they wantetl. l area leading theee
pieces, there happened a erce engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great wooden swords, the same weapon
that was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who
was as bold .and brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this
Indian a good while, and had cut two great wounds on his head; but the,
savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being
faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard, though
undermost, wisely quitted the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle‘, shot the
savage through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running
to help him, could come near him. -
Friday, being now left‘ to his liberty, pursued the ying wretches, with no
weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he despatched those three
who, as I 'said before, were wounded at rst, and fallen, and all the rest
he could come up with: and the Spaniard‘coming to me for a gun, I gave
him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages,
and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to run, they both got
from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of
them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded yet,
had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might off to those two
who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded, that we
knew not ‘whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands, of one-and-
twenty. ‘The account of the whole is as follows :---'l‘hree killed at our rst shot
from the tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two
killed by Friday, of those at rst wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood;
three killed by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped here and there, of
the wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the boat,
whereof one wounded, if not dead-—-twenty-one in all. ' _
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot, and though
Friday made? two or three shots at them, I did not nd that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and,
indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest‘, carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the
canoes, and ‘devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by
sea, ‘and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to nd another poor creature lie
there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard-was, for the slaughter, and almost
dead, with ‘fear, not knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to
look up over the sideof the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had
beentied so long, that he had really little life in him. '
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound him with,
and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be
killed. .When Friday came to him, ‘I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his
deliverance ; and pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram;
“-..
 
 
“l Mrltilli ,KQIIEF/Q‘tIEiZtITlFMt’
 
 
FRIDAY AND HIS FATHER. 171
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the
boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face,-it would
have moved anyone to tears to have seen how Friday kissed ‘him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung; then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head; and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to
himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstacy and
lial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his
being delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravagances of
his affection after this; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, ‘open his breast,
and hold his father’s head close'to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it; -'
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding,
and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case '
was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a
great deal of good. ‘
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages,
who were now gotten almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that we did
not, for it blew so hard within 'two hours after, and before they could be got a
quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could ‘not suppose their boat could
live, or that they ever reached their own coast. '
But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his father, that I could not
nd in my heart to take him off for some time; but after I thought he could
leave him a little I called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and
pleased to the highest extreme; then I asked him if he had given his father any
bread. He shook his head, and said, “ None; ugly dog eat all up self.” I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him
a ‘dram for himself; but he would not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had
in my pocket also two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful of
them for his father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw
him come out of the boat, and run away as if he had been bewit'ched, for he was,
the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever I saw; I say, he ran at such a rate that he
was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out,
too, after him, it was all one—away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw
him come back again, though not so fast as he went; and, as he came nearer, I
found his pace slacker, because he had something in his hand, When he came
up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring
his father some fresh water, and that he had got, two more cakes or loaves of
bread‘: the bread he gave me, but the water he carried to‘ his father; however, as
I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his father more
than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was any water
left; he said, “Yes”; and I bade him give to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes, that Friday brought,
to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon"
a green place under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff,
and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I
saw that upon F riday’s coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and
took the bread .and began to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of
raisins: he looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness
that could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the ght, that he could not stand‘up on his feet: he tried to
do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled
and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his'
ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done’his father’s.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or perhaps less,
all the while he was here, turned his head about,'to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he found he was not
to be seen; at which he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, ‘that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as
he went; but when he came, he only found he laid himself down to ease his
limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and I then spoke‘ to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he
should carry him to our'dwelling, where I would take care of him. But Friday, a
lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard quite up on his back,_and carried him away to
the boat, and, set him down softly upon the side or gunnel'of the canoe, with his
feet in the inside of it; and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to ‘his
father; and presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along
the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so he
brought them both safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, runs away
to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me I spoke to him, and asked him
whither he went. He told me, “Go fetch more boat”; so away he went like
the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday to bid
them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand—
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together upon it
between us. _
But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortication, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved
not to break it down; so I set to work again, and Friday and I, in about two
hours’ time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that i i
with boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward fence, and between
that attti the at yettag weed altielt I had jjitiahteti, ah til. here we thatie theta
the hetia at aaeh thihgt aa I had, at” geeti tieeettaw, with htaalteta taitl. ttttett
it, ta he he, ahtl attethet tie eat/er them, he hetit
y ialatal ttaa thaw jaeehteti, that I thtatght thyaett tety
tieh ht aehjeeta; aatl it was a tttetty ‘t‘ttiltttttttttt, a h ieh it
ttetitaehtly matte, haw that; I at?" all,
the whale tahthtty was my heat htettetty, at
that I ah ttatteahteti tight at tlethiaieh.
heeettdiy, peep t'fttttttttitljf aahjettetil: til’,
ahaelyately lettl aatt lattghet: they alt ewea
theit litea th the, atttt ttete
te lay ttewtt theta lit ,
it hart etizttaaiea
hat it, fat the. it ttaa tharhahle, the,
I ht hat
 
 
 
 
 
 
W, ,s
 
 
atthjeeta,
attti they tt
 
 
titty a
latteteataat, hie
tatltet" Watt
aati a
eattailjatl, ah
th e tiijtahyhtttl
e'tteeet, I aim
tettetfi lihetty
a
at‘ area ,1:
 
 
eaee
thttatttjheat ray
til e at i a. hit a lltttt thia ;ia hy
the Way.
atttttt at ” tttttattttttt ate’ atettatt tttit t'tt” ttta tthatt t, 'tft'ttj.
my tea ttealt ‘
teaettett taiaehee, aaa giteh theta aheltet, ahti hiatze ta heat thitgf I thd», l
j,
 
 
t
te thhtk at tttakihg aetee titteaiaieh fat theta; ahtt the tat til
ettietett Friday ‘te take a gttat, lftttltttt‘tat hail aatl a geat, eat at ta
pattiettlat titeeh, te he kitted; whee eat ett“ the hittttet titaattet, aati tjlttittjtjittttét‘ tt
mm Wmtt ttiet;siiea, I eat te wetlt hailihg titatl atettiag, ahti a aety geett tliah, t aaaate yea, at aati heath, hatihg {tat aerate hath; aati
4;»
174 [Boswvsozv C1: 0505.
rice also into the broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no re
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
table there for them, I sat down, and ate my own dinner also with them, and,
as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-
preter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard
spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After we.had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of the
canoes and go and fetch our muskets and other re-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next day, I ordered him to go
and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would
presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear
to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually performed, and defaced
the very appearance of the savages being-‘there; so that when I went again, I could
scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to
the place. -
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new subjects;
and, rst, I set Friday to inquire. of his father what he thought of the escape of
the savages-in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of them, with a
power too great for us to resist. His rst opinion was, that the savages in the
boat never could live‘ out the storm which blew that night they went off, but must,
of necessity, be drowned, or driven south to those other -.shores,twhere they were
as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but,
as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but
it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their
being attacked, the noise, and the re, that he believed they would tell the people
they were all killed by thunder and. lightning, not by the hand of man; and that
the two which appeared, viz., Friday and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies,
come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This he said he knew,
because he heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart re, and speak thunder,
and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this
old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since, by other hands, the savages
never attempted to go over to the island afterwards; they were so terried with
the accounts given by those four men (for it seems they did escape the sea), that
they believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with re
from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while,,and kept always upon my guard, I and all my
army: for, as we were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of
them, fairly in the. open eld, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their coming
wore off; and I began to take my former thoughts 'of a voyage to the main into
consideration; being likewise assured, by Friday's father, that I might ‘depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts
A DISCO mesa WITH THE SPANIARD. r 7 5
were a little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and“
when I understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese,
who having been cast away and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and,
indeed, for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they
were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being
directed to leave their loading there, which was chiey ‘hides and ‘silver, and .to
bring back what European goods they could meet with there; that they had five
Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck; that ve of
their own men were drowned, when rst the ship was lost, and that these escaped
~ through innite danger and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal
coast, where they expected to have been devoured every moment. He told me
they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for that they had
neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder,
but a little, .which they used at their rst landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if they had
formed no design of making any escape. He said they had many consultations
about it; but having neither vessel, nor’ tools to build one, nor provisions of any
kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he
thought they would receive- a proposal from me, which might ‘tend towards an
escape :, and whether, if they were all here, it might not be’ done. I told him with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me, if I put my life in
their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent‘ virtue in the nature of man, nor
did men always square their dealings by the obligations they ‘had received, so much
as they did by the advantages they expected. I told him it would be very hard
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that they should after-
wards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to '
be made a sacrice, what necessity or what accident soever brought him thither;
and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than
fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I
added that, otherwise’, I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a barque large enough to carry us all away, either to the
Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in
requital, they should, when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force
among their own people, I might be ill-used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.
He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness, that their con-
dition was so miserable, and that they were so sensibleof it, that he believed they
would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance; and that; if I pleased, he would go to them, with the old man, and
discourse with them- about it and return again, and bring me their answer; that he
would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be ab-
solutely under my direction, as their commander and captain; and they should
swear upon the Holy Sacrament and Gospel to be true to me, and go to such
5
Christian country as I should agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly and
absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I intended;
and that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
Then he told me he would rst swear to me himself,ithat he would never stir
from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and that he would take my
, side to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen the least breach of
faith among his countrymen. He told me they were all of .them very civil, honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
nor clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of
all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that he was sure, if I would
undertake their relief, they would live. and die by me. -
Upon these assurances, I' resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible, and
to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we
had got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection
which had so much prudence in it' on one hand, and so much sincerity on the
other hand, that I could not but be very well satised in it; and, by his advice,
put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case was
thus: he had been with us now about a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner” I had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for‘ my
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which,
'though it was more than sufcient for myself, yet it was not sufcient, without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but much less would
it be sufcient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive, should
come over; and least of all would it be sufcient to victual our vessel, if we
should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America; so
he told me he thought itwould be more advisable to let him and the other two
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and
that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen, when they should come; for want might be a temptation to them to
disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one difculty
into another. “You know,” says he, “the children of Israel, though they rejoiced
at rst for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God Him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want bread in the wilderness.”
His caution was so seasonable, and his- advice so good, that I could not but‘ '
be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satised with his delity;
so we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished
with permitted; and in about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-
time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two-and-
twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was,‘ in short, all the
seed we had to spare; indeed, we left ourselves barely sufcient for our own food
for the six months that we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it
is six months in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufcient to put us out of
we [we I?’ 7
fear hi’ the aaeagee, if they hatl eeate, hate a theta ;etiitthltet had heett tety gteat,
we weat titeety all etet the ialahti, whehetet we thahtt tweaaieh; aatt we heel
eat eaeape at tieliteraaee whee eat theaghta, it htteeaaihle, at teaat the me,
te hate the ttteaha hi it eat tether. her this jiattjjteae, I thathetil eat aetetat
tteea, whiel't I tliteaght tit the that wetlt, atttl I Iititiay atttl hie fathet te eat
them theta aatt thee eattaed the Stataiattt, te wht at I imparted my thettehta
ea that at’fatt, te eteraee ahtt tftiteet t
 
 
, “)
heit wetlt. I ahewed them with what
 
“t are etatata 'atataweaee a te team; at aa aatatea tie. teat
 
 
httiefatigahie I had hewett a latege vhate aihgle plahha, ahtt eaaaed
there he tie hhe, titl made wheat a tiettett ttaelta at ;ejeati halt,
heat twe hteati, feet and. heat twe iaehea tea that hwhea
thhiiilt : tat ptetligieae lalitettt it teeh he, ttjteh at
the aaaae time, if eehttiteti te hteteaae hay littte ateelt at tatwe aa teeth
at I eetthjl; ahti, the thia tattpeae I htatie ahtil the Ehtahiatd get wet ewe day,
and, with titlay the heat titty teelt eat threat, t'ttttl hy thia theaaa
we get wheat tweaty yeaag tie‘ hteett ttjit with the teat; the wheheeet we what
the dam, aaee the hide, atttt a theta ta etw tleeh. hat, ahtwe all, the
aeaaea the eatiag the gtaeea eeatihg eh, i eaaaetl; ataith twetiigteaa tjaaetity ta
1%
 
 
be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins
of the sun are cured, we could have lled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with
our bread, formed a great part of our food-—-very good living too, I assure you,
for they are exceeding nourishing. ,
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the most plentiful
increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;
for, from twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and thrashed out above two
hundred and twenty bushels; and the like in proportion of the rice; which was
store enough for our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards
had been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very
plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world,
that is to say, of America. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-work, viz., great baskets, in which
we kept it; and the-Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and
often blamed me 'that.I did not make some things for'defence of this kind of
work; but I saw no need of it. ,
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests expected, I gave
the Spaniard leave to go over the main, to‘ see what he could do with those he had
left behind him there. I gave him a strict charge not to bring any man with him
who would not rst swear, in the presence of himself. and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, ght with, or attack the person he should nd in‘ the island
who was so kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
would stand by him and defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his command; and that this should
' be put in writing, and signed with their hands. How they were‘ to have done
this, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink—“that, indeed, was a question
which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage,
the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they might be said
to have come in, or rather were brought- in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a re-lock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to' be very good
husbands of both, and not to use either of them but ‘upon urgent occasion.
‘This was a cheerful work, being the rst measures used by me, in view of my
deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many-days‘, and suffr-
cient for all the Spaniards for about eight days’ time; and wishing them a good
voyage, I saw them go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out
at their return, by which I should know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore. They went away, with a fair gale, on the
day the moon was ‘at full, by my account in the month of October; but as for an
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again;
nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I was right;
though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had kept
a true reckoning of years.
A S1111) 11v 810117‘. 79
It was no less than eight days I had waited for‘ them, when a strange and
unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came
running in to me, and ‘called aloud, “Master, master, they are come, they are
come!”. I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was by this time
grown to be a very, thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I‘ went without my
arms, which was not my custom to do: but I was surprised'when, turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a 'half distance,
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and 'the
wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed, presently, that they
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not. the people we looked for, and that we mightnot ,know yet_ whether they
were friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
‘ glass, to see what I could make of them; and, having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of
anything, and to take my view plainer, without being discovered. I had scarce
set my foot upon the bill, when my eye plainly discovered‘ a ship lying at an
anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above
a league and a half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing a ship, and
one that I had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and con-
‘sequently friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret
doubts hung about me-—I cannot tell from whence they came--bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the rst ‘place, it occurred to ‘me to consider what business
an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it was not the way
to or from any part of the world where the English had any trafc; and I knew
there had been no storms to drive them in there, in distress; and that if they
were really English, it was most probable that they were here upon no good_
design; and that I had better continue as I was than fall into the hands of
thieves and murderers. ' ' .
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which sometimes
are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have made any observations
of things can deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a
converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be
to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question)’, and that
they are given for our good? '
The ‘present question abundantly conrms me in the justice of this reasoning;
for had I not been made cautious by this secret admonition, come it from whence
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before,
as you will see presently. I had not kept myself long in this posture till I saw
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for
the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come quite far enough, they
did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my, rafts, but ran their boat
on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me; which was very happy
for me; for otherwise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of
all I had. When they were ,on shore, I was fully satised they were Englishmen,
at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so;
there were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as
I thought, bound; and when the rst four or ve of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners: one of the three I could
perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afiction, and despair
even to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted .up their
hand sometimes, and ‘appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as
the rst. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what- the meaning
of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could, “0
master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well .as savage mans.” “Why,
Friday,” says I, “do you think they are going to eat them, then?”--“Yes,” says
Friday, “they will eat them.”—-“No, no,” says I, “Friday; I am afraid they will
murder them, indeed; but you may be sure they will not eat them.”
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but stood
trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the three
prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor
men; and I expected to see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my Spaniard,
and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have come
undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have secured the three men, for I
saw no re-arms they had among them; but it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent sea-
'men, I observed the fellows run scattering about the land, as if they wanted to
see the country. I observed also that the three other men had liberty to go where
they pleased; but they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like men in despair. This put me in mind of the rst time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave myself over for lost; how
wildly I looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged
/in the tree all 'nighthfor fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I knew
nothing, that night, of the supply I was to receive by the providential driving of
the ship nearer the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been so
long nourished and supported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how
Certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
effectually and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same time they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do we see before us in
AK MM WWW Wm Mm). x:
Hm Wwd, and m mmh mmmm h‘zwzz “W w déiim'ad amwirxffmlly mpmm m gram Maxkm
M thw: Wmid that dwf mm‘ Maw Mlriia mmtmm m Mgaiawlmwiy‘ dilifimiim Wt
‘kg/mtg, in m Wmmt mimmmreammwy Hwy always; mzmrmaimg}; m m thankful my},
and. ;em‘mtimm am WWW {Emir asimimmrzmw mam Mm}; ix'fz‘lzzggimg my, am: @Wim
hmmgght my limit” diiiimmnm by aw rmmm My Whimh Hwy 5mm m M: hmmgm m
Xh‘fil” aiimatmazgmm
Wm jmz m Mm my: M high Wmm Wham {hiif‘ WWM mm@ m @hmm ; and
M ‘WHAT M1; a: 1.1mm
 
whim Hwy mmhld abmzt m  WW2 kind m a, 121mm? Wm gang tmy Md
mmmwly amymi Mi, m midi?“ Wm gmmi, mm; m» mm? mma mmmidmbky waving? tlwir 1mm: agmxmdm Thaw hmii Mfr We; mm in thif lawn Whm, my; I fmmd
aiwwmrda, having drunk, :1, mm mm mxmh Mmmm {all Mimi“); 'limwwr, we: mi‘
‘mam Waking? aim mmmr mm, thmiii“ (Mhif, and nding m Emmi tam mat agmumll
{my him m1 mix? it, mnwm mint Mr 12% mm? Wm "swam Mmm; 11pm
"whim, M162}? all azmm mmw m m 1mm ‘; but it pmt all tlwmir mwmgm m»
Emmi/m my, 151% 16mm immg kmwyy and mm @mm mm mm id: Eirxearimg" a amt
mmy @mda Mmmfgt MW :52 quikmmd. Tm fihilé'; mimitimm am mm wammg Whm 22m,
pmhmm, m Mam", (2% all mankind m fmmkhmght, mm WW it Wm, m&
.r'
away they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud
to another, calling them off from the boat, “Why, let her alone, Jack, can’t you?
she’ll oat next tide”; by which I was fully conrmed in the main inquiry of
what countrymen they were. All this while I keptmyself close, not oncé daring
to stir out ‘of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation, near the top
of the hill; and very glad I was to think how well it was fortied. I knew it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could oat again, and by that time “
it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I tted myself up for
a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing that I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at rst. I ordered Friday also, whom I had
made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took
myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My gure, indeed, was
veryerce'; I had my formidable goat-skin‘coat on, with the great cap I have
mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it was'
dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were all laid down to
sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their-condition to get any
sleep, had, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
'of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this
I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of their condition;
immediately I marched as above,‘ my man Friday at a good distance ,behind me,
as formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
gure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before‘ i
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, '“ What are ye, gentle-'
men?” They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded when
they saw me, and the uncouth gure that ,I made. They made no answer at all,
but I thought I perceived them just going’ to fly from me, when I spoke to them
in English: “Gentlemen,” said I, “do not be surprised at me: perhaps you may
have a'friend n'ear, when you did not expect. it.” “He must be sent directly from
heaven, then,” said one of them very gravely to me, and ‘pulling off his -hat at‘
the same time; “for our condition is past the help of man.” “All ‘help is from
heaven, sir,” said I: “but can you put a stranger in the way to help you? for you
seem to be in some great ,distress. I‘ saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them
lift up his sword to kill you.” a
The poor man, with tears- running down his face, and trembling, looked like
one astonished, and returned, “ Am I talking to God, or man? '_ Is it a real man, or
an angel?” “Be in no fear about that, sir,” said I; “if God had sent an angel
to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner than you see me in; pray lay aside your fears; I am‘ a man, an English-
man, and disposed to assist you ; you see I have one servant only; we have arms
and ammuaition ; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?” “Our
T HE CAPTAHv's PROPOSAL. 183
case, sir,” said he, “is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so near us;
but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my men have mutinied against
me; they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and, at last, have set
me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men with mew-one my mate,
the other a passenger—where we expected to perish, believingthe place to be un-
inhabited, and know not yet what ,to think of it.” “Where are these brutes, your
enemies?” said I; “do you know where they are gone?” “There they lie, sir,”
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; “my heart trembles for fear theyhave seen
us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all.” “Have
they any re-arms?” said 1. He answered, “They had only two pieces, one of
which they left in the boat.” “Well then,” said I, “leave the rest to me; I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners?” He told me there were two desperate villains among them that ,
it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed
‘all the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were. He told
me he‘ could not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders
in anything I would direct. “ Well,” says I, “let us retreat out of their view or
hearing,‘ lest they awake, and we will resolve further.” So they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
' “Look you, sir," said I; “if I venture upon your deliverance, are you willing
to make two conditions with me P” He anticipated my proposals by telling me
_ that'both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded
by me in everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the two other
men said the same. “Well,” said I, “my conditions are but two: rst,--"--that
while you stay on this island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here;
and if I put arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to
me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and in the meantime
be governed by my orders; secondly,—that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage free.”
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and faith of a man could
devise that he would comply with these most reasonable demands, and besides
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he
lived. “Well, then,” said I, “here are three muskets for you, with powder and
ball; tell me ,next what you think is proper to be done.” He showed all the
testimony of his gratitude that he was able, but ~ offered to be wholly guided by
me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best method
I could think of was to re on them at once as they lay, and if any were not
killed at the rst volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and so put
it wholly upon God’s providence to direct the‘shott He said, very modestly, that
he ‘was loth to kill them, if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible '
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they'
escaped, we should be undone still, for they would go on board and bring the_.whole
ship’s company, and destroy us all. “Well, then," says I, “necessity. legitimates
I
my sitiviss, fer it is the hhly m save mir lives.” hiswsvsr, seeing him still
ssmimis shsdriiihg hihmi, Ti, tshi him slimy shssld ihsmsslvss, ssh massage
as they fsusrl rismvsnisht.
is middle sf this riisrtfrmtrsh 'ws ssnm hi iilifiti awake, and smm after
we saw twh sf them hit their i; asked him if either hi’ them, were; the mes
whys he hsri said were the heads hi the mmihy. his said, if it‘ than,”
said i, “ yss may int them reshape; mid iirhvirissss seems is have: swshshsd
them his imrpsss m mm ihsmshims. his,” Tl, “ if“ the rest ssssps yes, it: is
yhur fssit.” .hsimsmri with this, he tssk the msskst had is
t
him in his
 
 
hsmi, smi pistsi hi 7,
his heir, and his tws
ssmmiihis th hm, with
hash man s. pines is
mini; trim tws mew w h s were
him first msds swish
swim, at: mm sf tim whs wss tsrhhri shmir, shri I
seeing thmh shining, srisri rim is rim rsst; imt: it was his him their, few the msmeht
he mm stir firedmi miss the tws men, the ssptsih wisely reserving swn
pistes. had as wsli aimed ihsir shht st men they khsw, thst she sf them.
was hiiisri sh rim spirit, and the rather very mash wrmnrisd ; hm: hm dead, he
started up rm his first, smi ssiisd ssgsriy fm help is the mhsr; ims the ssmsin,
stepping is him, mlrl. him it ms ism is my fsr heip, he shrmlri spsn
ilisd ts frwgiss his villshy, shri with that wsnii kimsksrl him drawn with the sf his this, he sever spsks msm: them were three mess in the ssm~
party, and ssh sf them was siighiiy wmimisri. this time I hsms; whsh saw their rishgsr, and that it in; min is resist, hsggsri ihr
messy. ssjfitsin tshii them he wshlri spam their hvss if they wsslri give him an
ssssrsnss sf their shhsrrsnss sf his tmsshsry they had hash gsihy hi, and, wssid
swssr in he fsithfsi is him in mssssrihg the ship, shrii afterwards is mrryihg hm
M “iii iii iiiiii; iifl.“
 
 
1 SHOW THE CAPTAIN MY CASTLE. 18 5
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of
their sincerity that could be desired; and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their lives, which I was not against, only I obliged him to ‘keep them bound
hand and foot while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain’s mate to the boat, with
orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and‘sails, which they did; and by-
and~by three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest,
came back upon hearing the guns red ', and seeing the captain, who before was
their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our
victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one another’s
circumstances. I began rst, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement—and particularly at the wonderful manner
of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story
is a. whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved there on pur-
pose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a word
more. After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men
into my apartments, leading them in just where I came out, viz., at the top of
the house, where I refreshed him with such provision as I had, and showed them
all the contrivances I had made during my long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but above all,
the captain admired my fortication, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted near twenty years, and the
trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little wood, so thick
that it was impassable in any part of it but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my residence,
but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time; but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that,
but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were
still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it
now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if they were subdued
they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to
any of the English colonies, and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them
with so small a number as we were. .
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very
rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved on very
speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as
to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently
occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was become
of theirI comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat to look for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be
too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational. Upon this, I told him the rst
thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they
might not carry her off, and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless
as not to be t to swim. Accordingly we went oh board, took the arms which
were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there---which was a
bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-‘cakes, a horn of powder, and
a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was ve or six pounds); all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, sail, and rudder
of the boat were. carried away before), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off
the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to
recover the ship; but my view ‘was, that if they went away without the boat, I
did not much question to make her again t to carry us to the Leeward Islands,
and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them Still in my *
thoughts. - - '
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had rst, by main strength,
heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float her off at
high-water mark, and besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be
quickly stopped, and were sat down musing what we should do, we heard the ship
re a gun, and make a waft with her ensign.as a signal for the boat to come on
board: but no boat stirred; and they red several times, making other signals for
the boat. At 1ast,.when all their signals and ring proved fruitless, and they '
found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another
boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found, as they approached, that
there were no less than ten men in her,’and that they had re-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view of them
as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces; because the tide having set
them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come
to the same place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by this
means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said, there were three very
honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being
overpowered and frightened; but that as for the boatswain, who it seems was the
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of ihe
ship’s crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us. I smiled at‘
him, and told him that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear;
that seeing almost every condition that could be was better than that which we
were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that ‘the consequence, whether death
or life, would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the
circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for.
“And where, sir,” said I, “is your belief of my being preserved here on purpose
ANOTHER BOAT LANDS. 187
to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago? For my part,” said I,
“there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.” “What is
that?” says be. “Why,'’ said I, “it is, that as you say there are three .or four.
honest fellows among them, which should be spared, had they been all of the
wicked part of the crew, I should have thought God’s providence had singled_them
out to deliver them into your hands; for depend upon it, every man that comes
ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they behave to us.” As I spoke this
.with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him;
so we set vigorously to our business. _
We had, upon the rst appearance of the boats coming from the ship, con-
sidered of separating our prisoners; and had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of nding their way
out of the woods, if they could have delivered themselves; here they left them
bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them, if they continued there‘
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted
their escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully
to bear their connement with patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage as to have provisions and a light left them: for Friday gave thenr
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not know
but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned, indeed,
because the captain was not free to trust them; but the other two were taken
into my service, upon the captain’s recommendation, and upon their solemnly
engaging to live and die with us; so with them and the three honest men we
were seven men,, well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest men among them also. AS Soon as they got to
.the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to see, for I was
afraid they would rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the
shore, with some bands in her, to guard her, and so we should not be able to
seize the boat. Being on'shore, the rst thing they did, they ran all 'to' their
other boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to nd-her
stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a greatihole in her bottom. After
they had mused awhile upon this, they set ‘up two or three great shouts, hallooing
with all their might, to try if they could make their companions hear; but all was
to no purpose: then they came all close in a ring, and reda volley of their
small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but
it was all one; those in the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those in
our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards,
they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know that the
men were all murdered, and the long-boat stayed; accordingly, they immediately
launched their-boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at this, believing they
would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for
lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have
recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not' been long put off with the boat, when we perceived them all
coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which -it seems
they consulted together upon, viz., to. leave three men in the boat, and the rest to
go on shore, and go up into the country to look for their fellows. This was a
great disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do, as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us ‘if we let the boat escape;
because they would row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be
sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost. How-
ever, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might pre-
sent. The seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat
put her off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for
them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that
came on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill
under which my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive us. We should have been very glad if they would have come nearer
to us, so that we might have red at them, or that they would have gone farther
off, that we might come abroad. But when they were come to the brow of the
hill ‘where they could see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay to-
wards the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hal-
looed till- they were weary: and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore,
nor far from one another, they sat down together, under a tree, to consider of it.
Had they thought t to have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of
danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was
they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs,
viz., that perhaps they would all re a volley again, to endeavour to make their
fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we should
have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal, provided it was done while
we were near enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces
again. But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long time, very irreso-
lute what course to take. At length, I told them there would be nothing done,
in my opinion, till night; and then if they‘ did not return to the boat, perhaps we
might nd a way to get between them and the shore, and so might use some
stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while,
though very impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultation, we saw them all start-up, and march down towards the sea: it seems
THE MUTINEERS S URPRISED. 1 89
they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place, that 'they'resolved
~ to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on
with their intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to be as it
really was, that they had given over their search, and were for going back again;
and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back
again, ‘and which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain’s
mate ‘to go over the little creek westward, towards the place where the savages
came on shore when Friday was rescued, and so soon as they came to a little
rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as. loud as
they could, and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon
as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and,
then keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed; and
they presently heard them, and, answering, ran along the shore westward, towards
the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up and
set them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and, as it were,
in a harbour within the land, they took one of the three men out of her, to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump
of a little tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain’s mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in the boat. The
.fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down; and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw
ve men upon him, and his comrade knocked down: besides, this was, it seems,
one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew; and, therefore, .was easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to
join very sincerely with us. In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate
so well managed their business with the rest' that they drew them, by hallooing
and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they could not reach back to
the boat before it was.dark_; and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also,
by the time they came back to us. - , I
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fall upon
them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours after Friday came
back to mebefore they came back to their boat; and we could hear the fore-
most of them, long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along; and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they
were, and not able to come any faster: which was very welcome news to us. At ,
length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express their confusion
when they found their boat' fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and
their two men gone. We could hear them call‘to one another in a most lament-
able manner, telling one another they were , got into an enchanted island; that
either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there
were devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their'two comrades by their names a great many
times; but no answer. After some time, we could see them, by the little light
there was, running about, wringing their hands like men in despair, and sometimes
they would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves: then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again. My men would
fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I -
was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few
of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing of any
of our men, knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see
if they did not separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my am-
buscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands
and feet, as close to the ground as they could, that they might not be discovered,
and get as near them as they could possibly, before they offered to re.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who was the
principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them, with two more of the
crew; the captain was so eager at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him come so near as .to be sure
of him, for they only heard his tongue ‘before; but when they came nearer, the
captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was
killed upon the spot: the next man was shot in the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the'
noise of the re, I immediately advanced with ‘my whole army, which was now
eight men: viz., myself, generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see our number;
and I made the man they had left in the boat, and who was now one of us, call
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so perhaps reduce
them to terms ; ‘which fell out just as we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing to capitulate. So he calls
out as loud as he could to one of them, “Tom Smith! Tom Smith!” Tom
'Smith answered immediately, “Who’s that? Robinson?” for it seems he knew-the
voice. The other answered, “Ay, ay; for God’s sake, Tom Smith, throw down
your arms and yield, or you are all dead merf this moment.”--“ Who must we
yield to? Where are they?” says Smith again. “Here they are,” says he;
SURRENDER .1 T Dzsczes TION. 19 I
“here’s our captain and fty men with him, have been hunting you these two
hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost.”—-“Will they give us quarter then?” says
Tom Smith, “and we will yield.”—“ I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield,” said
Robinsonz' so he asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out, “You,
Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins.” _
Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, “For God’s sake, captain, give me quarter;
‘what have I done? They have been all as bad as I :” which, by the way, was
not true; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the rst man that laid hold of the
captain, when they rst mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands
and giving him injurious language. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy: by which he
meant me, for they all called me governor. In a word, they all laid down their
arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them,
and two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of fty men, which,
with those three‘, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon. them, and upon
their boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the ship; and as
for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villany of their practices with him, and upon the further wickedness of
their design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the
end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged
hard for their lives. As for that,‘ he told them they .were none of his prisoners,
but the commander’s of the island; that they thought they had set him on shore
in a barren,_uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that
it was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there, if he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed
he would send them to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death,
for that he, would be hanged in the morning. -
Though this was all a ction of his own, yet it had its desired effect; Atkins
fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his
life; and all the rest begged of him, for God’s sake, that they might not be sent
to England. I
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, and that
it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting
possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from‘ them, thatthey might not
see what kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to me; when I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and
say to the captain, “Captain, the commander calls for y'ou;” and presently the
captain. replied,‘ “Tell his Excellency, I am just coming.” This more perfectly
amazed them, and they all believed that the commander was just by, with his
fty men. Upon the captain coming to me, I told him my project for seizing
I
I932 it? eerwiteet Crteree
the ehie, whieh he hired wehthethtliy well, ehtt reteivetl he put it he eeeetrtierr
heiet reerhihth .iihtt, ih ertler te eeeettte it with there tttt, ettti te tire eeeere ht
etieeeee, it telltl; hire we meet
dirhle the jrtieehere, teed thet
he ehettltt ehti telte .hthhte,
ti twe there et“ the wetet hi
there, ttt'ttit eeeti them jithtieheti
tie the the ethere
iey. 'fiihie wee eetrttrtiitteti te
Wider ehtt twe meet with
three eh ehere with the titttte
tttht. They eehreyett there
te the eere he he ptieeh;
eed it wee, ihtieeti, tjiiehtet
jrleee, eepeeteliy te thee ie
their eehtlhiett ethere
i ertteretl te thy hthter, .ee 1
eellett it, tit whieh litet‘e
e felt tieettrihtieez ttett
it were teheeti ht, eeti they
hittiehed, eteee eeettte
ertettgh they w retiree their heherietth
“fl/We th hr the teething
},
 
 
eeet tte tirttpteih, whe te ehter htte e with
there irt e werri, te try tiitere,
etttt tell whether he
theegiitt t9: wright trttetetit
er feet eh heerti ehtt
ettteriee the ehiyjt telheti
te there ef ihjtt three
i'ttttt, hi the eehtlitieh they
were hrthtght te, ehti titht
thee ti
W
 
 
 
 
‘re gerttherhetl girett
thettt titttttterr the their te ereeeht etirtiett, thet they eeet “the 'eeetwetet were “ttttilet t ret ggfggmmh may Wmmti my
hehg ti ht eheirte ;. 'het thet "if
weehfi jeht irr etteiit eh etterhpt he he reeerer the eh he, wettiti here the
 
 
 
e I ~
 
 
Q?
ge-rerherh fer their pereett
 
 
they gee: hew ily hreheeei wetthi he reett ht:
their peeitiett; they felt dewtt eh their hrteee he the eehteht, etttt pretttieee, with
the deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and
that they should owe their lives to him, and would go‘ with him all over the
world; that they would own him for a father to them as long as they lived.
“Well,” says the captain, “I must go and tell the governor what ‘you say, and see
what I can do to bring him to consent to it.” So he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in, and‘that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should go back again and
choose out ve of them, and tell them that they might see that he did’ not want
men, that he would take out those ve to be his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my
cave), as hostages for the delity of those ve; and that if they proved unfaithful
in the execution, the ve hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the
shore. This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in earnest;
however, they had no way left them but to accept it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other ve to do their
duty. ‘ .
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: ‘rst, the captain, his
mate, and passenger; second, then the two prisoners of the rst‘ gang, to whom,
having their character from the captain, I had given their liberty and trusted them
with arms; third,‘the other two whom I had kept till now in my bower pinioned,
but, upon the captain’s motion, had now released; fourth, these ve released at
last: so that they were twelve in all, besides ve we kept. prisoners in the cave
for hostages. I i
I asked the captain if he was willing. to venture with these hands on board the
ship; for as for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men left behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals. As .to the ve in the cave, I resolved to
keep them fast, but Friday went -in twice a day to them, to supply . them with
necessaries; and I made the ‘other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
where Friday was “to take it. i
' When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain, who told
them I was the person the governor had ordered to look after them; and that it
was the governor’s pleasure that they should. not stir anywhere but by my direc—
tion ; that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons: ‘
so that as we never suffered them to see me as governor, I now appeared as
another person, and spoke of the‘ governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like,
upon all occasions. ‘ ‘
The captain now had no difculty before him, but ~ to furnish his two boats,
stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his passenger captain of one,
with four other men; and himself, his mate, and ve more, went in the other;
and they contrived their business very well, for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came, within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like; holding them in a chat
13 . a ' ‘
till they came to the ship’s side; when the captain and the mate entering rst
'with their arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with
‘the butt-end‘ of their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men ; they
secured all the rest that were ,upon the main and quarter-decks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below; when the other boat and
[their men,‘ entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and
the scuttle which went down'into the cook-room, making three men they. found
‘there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon deck,_the captain‘ ordered
the mate, with' three men, to break into the round-house, where the new rebel
‘captain lay, who, having taken the alarm, had got‘ up, and with two men and a
boy had got re-arms in their hands; and when the mate, with a crow, split open
the door, the new captain and his men red boldly among them, and wounded
‘the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the
‘men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he‘ was, and, with his pistol, shot 'the‘new captain
through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, coming out again behind one of
‘his ‘ears, so that he never spoke‘ a word more: upon which the’ rest yielded, and
‘ ‘the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be
red, which'was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which, you may be sure, I'was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the
shore for it till near two o’clock' in‘ the morning.’ Having thus heard the signal
plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to' me, I slept
very. sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently
starting up, ‘I heard a man calling me by the name of “Governor! Governor!”
‘and presently I‘ knew the captain’s voice; when climbing up to the top of the
hill, there‘ he stood, and, pointing to the ship, be embraced me in his arms.
“M-y‘dear friend and deliverer,” says he, “there’s your ship; for she is all yours,
and so are we, and all that belongs -to her.” I cast my eyes to. the ship, and there
she rode, within little more thanhalf a 'mile of the shore; for they had weighed
her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
brought her ‘to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;'and, the tide
being up, the captain ‘had brought the pinnace in near the’ place where I rst
landed my rafts, so landed just at my door. -I was at rst ready to sink down
with the surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all
things'easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased-to go.
At rst, for some time, I was not able to answer one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have ‘fallen to the ground. He
perceived the surprise, and immediatsly pulled a bottle out of his pocket, and gave
nie a drum of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had
drunk it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet
it was a good while before I' could speak 'a word to him. All this while the poor
man was in as great an ecstacy as I; only not under- any surprise as' I was; and
hesaid a thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to
i‘ mil?‘ “.i‘iiii: ‘iil‘W entertain WM itwiiiiiii
 
 
THE CAPTAJN’S GRATJTUDE. I95
myself; but such was the ood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into
confusion: at last it broke into tears; and, in a little while after, I recovered my
speech; then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced
together. I told him I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver
me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such
things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence govern“
ing the world, and an evidence that the eye of an Innite Power could search
into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable whenever
He pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and
what heart could forbear to bless Him, Who had not only in a miraculous manner
provided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but from
Whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged to proceed.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought me some
little refreshments, such as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had
been so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this, he called aloud
to the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the governor;
and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried '
away along with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still, and
they were to go without me. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two'
quarts each), two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weigh of biscuit; he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full
of lemons,‘ and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other things. But be-
sides these, and what was a thousand times more useful, he brought me six new
clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat,
and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had
been worn but very little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot. It was
a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in my circum»
stances; but never was anything in' the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at their rst putting on.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things were brought
into my little apartment, we began to consult what was- to be done with the
prisoners we had; for it was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, whom he knew to be incor-
rigible and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew they were
such rogues that there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them away, it
must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at the rst English
colony he could come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious
about it. Upon this, I told him that, if he desired it, I would undertake to
bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island. “I should be very glad of that,” says the captain, “with
all my heart.” “Well,” says I, “ I will send for them up, and talk with them for
W113’ So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now discharged,
their comrades having performed their promise; I say, I caused them to go to
the cave, and bring up the ve men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in my
new habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all. met, and the captain
with me, I caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them I had got
a full account of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit further robberies, but that
Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my direction
the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road; and they might see
by~and-bye that their new captain had received the reward of his villany, for that
they might see him hanging at the yard-arm; that, as to them, I wanted to know
what they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt but I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to say
but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised them their lives, and
they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not what mercy to
show them; for as for myself I had resolved to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go to England; and as for the captain,
he could not carry them to England other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried
for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the consequence of which, they must
needs know, would be the gallows; so that I could not tell what was the best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island. If they desired
that, I did not care; as I had liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if, they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to stay there than be
carried to England to be hanged. So I left it on that issue. -
,- However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if he durst not
leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry with the, captain, and told
him that they were my prisoners, not his; and, that seeing I had offered them
so much favour, I would be as good as my word; and that if he did not think
t to consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as Ifound them; and if he did
.not like it, he might take them again if he could catch them. Upon this they
appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them
retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I would leave them
some re-arms, some ammunition, and some directions how they should live very
well, if they thought t. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but
told the captain I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him
to go on board in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the
boat on shore next day for me; ordering him, in the mean time, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might
see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me in my apartment
and entered seriously into discourse with them of their circumstances. I told them
 
 
 
liwmjlw Yim Mwgw 13%" ‘1123;?
wmgm may MM
f m 0?; 11mm hmii 'tzimimi 2% m
WWW}? Km Zlwmgggmik 'I'Q
rmw flwi mmgmg; m; KM:
mm mm min} Mmm mm}? M, ramming; w mpmrt 9 Whm 11%;; had, Mi miwzzzmd mw "wily
mtzia>% w 53%}? I mm “t Mt t1‘
mm Hm Wm; M my ;"
thzm mtg} m xwy' making; it;
Mmm. Ammmimggly, I; giw: fmm Mm Mm:
‘himw m? Hm mama \zimd, m” my mmiziigg
£2: mmm; mm my mmmmm ,1
fhim my %;%"K7“€2£2$ pmmmi m mm???
 
 
 
 
yzfmdm
 
 
 
 
 
 
mm}, 1 WWW
living mrm 2,
“MM/M
 
 
Wit?
 
 
Z.
{I
a ,
M,
 
 
M
g:
 
 
 
 
 
 
’ém,
“ ” % MMWFI?
 
 
 
 
“é
 
 
Fmpm; and‘, in 2% Ward, M mm W1‘? mmzww m mam 2:}? m K; m mm? m” Mm ixm m mim‘a, mm 1% we? m m L if a” Mmm ”
“Eihgimii 16mm; 2% Mi M? iii mmimfmk w Mix 41%, wazlwmw
 
 
 
Maii imm
i ii; 7%
1m
 
 
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
k}
 
 
WW
 
 
I left them my re-arms, viz., ve muskets, three fowling-pieces, and three
swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left; for after the rst year
i or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way
I managed the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both
butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every part of my story; and told
them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder
more, and some garden-seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of.
Also, I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and
bade them be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left the next day, and went on board the ship. We
prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two of the ve men came swimming to the ship’s side, and made the most
lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship for
God’s sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on
board, though be hanged them immediately. Upon this, the captain pretended to
have no power without me; but after some difficulty, and after their solemn
promises of amendment, they were taken on board, and were, some time after,
soundly whipped and pickled; after which they proved. very honest and
quiet fellows. .
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore, the tide being up, with
the things promised to the men; to which the captain, at my intercession, caused
their chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very thankful for.
I also encouraged them, by telling them, that if it lay in my way to send any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them. _
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reliqhes, the great
goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not
to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver till it had
been a little rubbed and handled, and also the money I found in Ithe wreck of
the Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship’s account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty
years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity
the same day of the month that I rst made my escape in the Barco longo from
among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the 11th of june, in the year 1687, having been thirty-ve years absent.
When I came to England, I was a perfect stranger to all the world, as if I
had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had
left my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the
world; was become a widow the second time, and very low in the world. I made
her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but,'
on the contrary, in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock would afford; which at that time would, indeed, allow me
to do but little for her: but I assured her I would never forget her former kind- ,
ness to me; nor did I forget her when I had sufcient to help her, as shall be
[N ENGLAND AGAIN. 199
observed in its place. I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except‘ that I found two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I had been long
ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for me ; so that in a
word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that little money I‘had would
not do much for me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect; and this
was, that the master of the ship, whom I had ‘so happily delivered, and by the
same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome account to
the owners, of the manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other merchants concerned, and alto-
gether made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost £200 sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life, ano.
how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some information of the state of
my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of my partner, who, I had
reason to suppose, had some years now given me over for dead. With this view
I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April ‘following; my man Friday
accompanying me very honestly in all these ‘ramblings, and proving a most faithful
servant upon all occasions. When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the captain of the ship, who rst
took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left the
sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his ship, and who
still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me; and indeed, I hardly
knew him. But I soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who
I was. .
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us, I in-
quired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. The old man told
me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that he could assure
me, that when he came away my partner was living; but the trustees, whom I
had joined with him to take cognisance of my part, were both dead; that, how-
ever, he believed that I would have a very good account of the improvement of
the plantation; for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator-scal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came
to claim it, one-third to the king, and twothirds to the monastery of St. Augustine,
to be expended for the benet of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians
to the Catholic faith; but that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual produc-
tion, being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured
me that the steward of the king’s revenue from lands, and the providore, or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that
is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of which
they had received'duly my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height of
improvement he had brought the plantation,- and whether he thought it might be
worth‘ looking after; or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any
obstruction to my possessing my- just right in the moiety. He told me he could
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my'partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one-half of it _:
and that to the best of his remembrance, he 'had heard that the king's third of my
part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery or religious house,
amounted to above two hundred moidores a year: that as to my being restored
to a quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of that, my partner
being alive 'to witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country; also he told‘ me that the survivors of my two trustees were very
fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed ,I would not only have their
assistance ‘for putting me in possession, but would nd a very considerable sum of
money in -their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm while their
father held the trust, and before it was given up, as above; which, as he remem-
bered, was for about twelve years. ' ' ‘
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and inquired of
the old captain how' it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of my
effects, when he knew that I had made my will, and had made him, the Portuguese
captain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my being dead,-
he could not act as executor, until some certain account should come of my death;
and that besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a” thing so remote; that
it was tf'ue he had registered my will, and put in his claim; and could he have
given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration,
and taken possession of the ingenio (so they call the sugar—house), and have given
his son, who was now at the Brazils orders to do it. “But,” says the’ old man,
“I have one piece of news to' tell you, which perhaps -may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, believing you were lost, and all the world
believing so also, your partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in your
name, for the rst six or eight years’ prots, which I ‘received. There being at
that time great disbursements for increasing the works, building an ingenio, and
buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as- afterwards it produced:
however,” says the old man, “I shall give you a true account of what I have
received in all, and how I have disposed of it.” ,
After ‘a few days’ further' conference with this ancient friend, he brought me an
account of the rst six years’ income of my plantation, signed by my partner and
the merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods, via, tobacco in roll; and
sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a sugar-
work; and I found by this account that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at rst was small;
however, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and
seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests ‘of sugar, and fteen .double rolls of
 
M5 01; m m; 1"
 
 
N
 
 
sahiimwmimi framing; ham‘:
mhzmttm 1% zémh Wm mm: M iii”
{mam “Wm WM 1mm mm
*2 mm; M} mt" m 115%?
m Limm aimm MW m mm m
h gm m impl I
M my mamw m rimfwmf' MES; Mmfil mm, my him & almm in IF‘WW M Fmww
ww, my m2, frimixdf hm “Wm mm; mat wzmt féilf’llifkly in Wm *méify’;
aim m mim 211% my mm mmmm Wm mu hff mi}? miziiam/W “ljwltwm Htmiafa hi3 Wm
‘ WW mm Em MM 'md my ifj’iiwmgga Yid” in WM;
 
 
RYE
 
 
‘1
we‘;
:kwg
isww
 
 
 
 
mm m Mai {WWW mm
 
 
 
a
 
 
WW Writimm {1% M5»; mm m Mm QM
lmzim iii? a}? MM? m Wm mmrtwpm? m'ww, Tmth in my mwiiw {w immézy M mm;
I mm mm rmmh maiwml wifz m Mmwty W451 Mmhmw mi’ Mm 1mm rmm m m
mm m mm“ mi; @m’i mm *mmrimg Wimt 2% mm MW: {aw m MW 1% Mai wkm
my; 220%: my :Jm MW wmwy m Md mwii m6? an M1 mmiamm, mm} pmmimw
imly MW zim m "fzfimwi ‘m Wm mm m mm 1 {amid mtmty 2"‘ 'Wgim wwpimg éiit
what im Md wild W 215x112; mm’ MW r'eiat, .L WM hizi'n M2; aimwmaatzmm mimitmti
him in 53; w z‘mmth mmmy m that zizwizh, if it WWW mm mmimm him? WM mg: m lfmmd mm my built it: mi? t; mmimm Eaim lit; m, hwfwru it Wm
mmmy? and I m’iggm' Wmm it Wmm t‘iixzm 1w;
1), w¥€z£ala hif aw was; WW 1% m
23 m Wm 'zhm‘m
 
 
1T
mi Ma 25% mwt
isss'i
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘v
 
 
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could hardly refrain
from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one' hundred of the moidores, and
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them: then I returned him the
rest, and told him if ever I had possession of the plantation I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that as to the bill of sale
of his part in his son’s ship, I would not take it by any means; but that it I
wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not,
but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a
penny more from him. _
When this was past, the old man began to ask me if he should put me into a
method to make my claim to my plantation. I told him I thought to go over to
it myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but that, if I did not, therewere
ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the prots to my
use: and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to
Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register, with his a’idavihhfrming,
upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was the same person who took up the
land for the planting the said plantation at rst. This being regularly attested by
a notary, and a procuration afxed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his
writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon this procura-
tion; for in less than seven months I received a large packet from the survivors
of my trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went to sea, in which were the
following particular letters and papers inclosed. ‘
First, there was the aizcount-current of the produce of my farm or plantation,
from the year when their father had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being
for six years; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hundred and seventy-
four moidores in my favour.
Secondly, there was the account of four years more, while they kept the effects
in their hands, before the government claimed the administration, as being the
effects of a person not to be found, which they called civil death; and the balance
of this, the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thousand four
hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and forty
moidores. ‘
Thirdly, there was the Prior of the Augustines’ account, who had received the—
prots for above fourteen years ; but not being able to account for what was disposed
of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to my account: as to the king’s
part, that refunded nothing. .
There was also a letter of my partner’s, ‘congratulating me very affectionately
upon my being alive, giving me an account how the estate was improved, and
what it produced ‘a year; with the particulars of the number of squares or acres
that it contained, how planted, how many slaves there were upon it: and making
two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave .Marz'as to
WEALTH. 20 3
thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately ‘to come
over and take possession of my own; and, in the mean time, to give him orders
to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with
a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of his family; and sent me, as a present,
seven ne leopards’ skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship that he had sent thither, and which, it seems, had made a better voyage than
I. He sent me also ve chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of
gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the same eet, my two
merchant-trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight
hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of job was better than the
beginning. It is impossible to express the utterings of my very heart when I
looked over these letters,‘ and especially when I found all my wealth about me;
for as the Brazil ships come all in eets, the same ships which brought my letters
brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came
to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick; and, had not the old
man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset
nature, and I had died upon the spot: nay, after that, I continued very ill, and
was so some hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of the real
cause of my illness being known, he ordered me to let blood; after which I had
relief, and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not been eased by the vent
given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above fty thousand pounds sterling in
money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazilsfof above a
thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England: and, in a
word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to
compose myself for the enjoyment of. The rst thing I did was to recompense
my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been rst charitable to me
in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and honest to me at the end. I
showed him all that was sent to me; I ‘told him that, next to the providence of '
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on
me to reward him, which I would do a hundred-fold; so I rst returned to him
the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary, and
caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from the four hundred and
seventy moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
rmest manner possible. After which, I caused a procuration to be drawn,
empowering him to be the receiver of the annual prots of my plantation; and
appointing my partner to account him, and make the returns, by the usual eets,
to him in my name; and by a clause in the end, made a grant of one hundred
moidores a year to him during his life, out of the effects, and fty moidores a
year to his son after him, for his life: and thus I requited my old man.
I had now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do
with the estate that Providence had thus put into my hands ; and indeed, I had
more care upon my head now than I had in my silent state of life in the island,
where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted;
whereas I had now a great charge upon me,v and my business was how to secure
it. I had not a cave now to hide my money in, or a place where it might lie
without lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before anybody would meddle
with it; on the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it.
My old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I
had. In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither;
but now I could not tell how to think of going thither till I had settled my
affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At rst I thought of
my old friend the widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just to me; but
then she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt;
so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself, and take‘
my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and therefore, as I
had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow, whose husband had
been my rst benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So, the rst thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to
his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to go nd her out, and
carry her, in money, a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further
supply: at the same time, I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds
each, they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one
having been married and left a widow; and the other having a husband not so
kind to her as he should be. But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that
I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and this greatly
perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself there,
for I was, as it were, naturalised to the place; but I had some little scruple in
my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which I shall say
more presently. However; it was not religion that kept me from going there for
the present; and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the
country all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and
then, havihg of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to think of
living and dying among them, I began to regret my having professed myself a
Papist, and thought it might not be the ‘best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from going to
the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so I resolved at last to go to England with them, where, if I arrived, I
concluded I should make some acquaintance, or nd some relations, that would
be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England with all my
wealth. ' ' '
In ‘order to prepare things for my going home, I rst (the Brazil fleet being
 
Aw x+zm ,fjMm4 w 3
Jmt 232Wy} m mimwzztaa mimbhzz w m jmt; 52521.51 warm. mzwizwum
a:
mi” mmw hm frmm mmw; mm? firém ma: M Wfmiit “1,
imi'fr m} M %%k;f§ {W dwlimw, mm Hm MM; 415% the: might hmfildmjaii and
marvmmwmm miyimww Mm}; Warm‘ mmiiwmm m; mim I; mmwd zimiglim m ,gkjgwmd,
1m mmmi m HM mmmwmm mm Mfmzwgz mmm zmefi Eéé'iiii'vmtymiiw m m 130%?
a?
"* Wm m" m WWZW M 1mm 1"“m; zfzzmmm Wq~ Wm
my héiit 1mm?” M‘xmd ‘dimm; mwérimg MW gmiwd WWW???" pmwm fm mm, zzmji m WWW mmt Kmtmf" M mum w my mmmw, WM"; 21% m zmkmwwmdgmwt
mm; :m mmizh jmmim 11ml hgzmzaiatcy fwr; w {m :sawd‘ing 'mm my Wmmmg
mm}? Wmii’ far abmwzg: having; my mzizgmiwm my? x», I'Jzmtly, Wmta w my giwmm
a‘knwwidgimg ME imhwtw in m imwwm Hm plzmmtimm and m Em
immwmgg Mimi: mgwk M6‘ Kh’ WWTM; 7;; giving; him imtmmimw 11m Ma fazmm @Wmw
mam M my Wm mlfdig m Um Wnwm K mm; M. with my QM pmmm m
Wmm I dmimd mm m WW1 Mmmwmf Emxmm 1141:» mm, til} ha ahmm imam
{mm rim» mam gmrtimim“ 3;; mmzrimgg; him that ii: Ww my immmam mm 0M1; m
a” mmm m him, hm: w Mm mywif 1mm {my m mmmimdm M my Mm thi I,‘
206 Rormvsozv Car/1905.
added a very handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters,
for such the captain’s son informed me he had; with two pieces of ne English
broad cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, ve pieces of black baize, and some
Flanders lace of a good value. ‘ '
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects into
good bills of exchange, my next difculty was which way to go to England: I
had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time; and thoughIcould give no reason for it, yet the dif-
culty increased upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and that might be one of the
reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of
such moment: two of the ships which I had singled out to go in--I mean, more
particularly singled out than any other--having put my things on board one of
them, and in the other having agreed with the captain; I say two of these ships
miscarried; viz., one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on
the Start, near Torbay, and all the people drowned, except three; so that in
either of those vessels I had been made miserable, in which most, it was hard to
say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I com-
municated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by
land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence
it was but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and
Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In
a word, I was so prepossess'ed against my going by sea at all, except from Calais
to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the pleasanter way: and to
make it more so, my old captain brought ‘an English gentleman, the son of a
merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up
two more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last
going to Paris only; so that in all, there were six of us, and ve servants; the two
merchants and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me
as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being very well
mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour to
call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as because 1 had two
servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of ‘my sea journals, so I shall trouble
you now with none of my land journals; but some adventures that happened to us
in this tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain, were willing
to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and what was worth observing; but,
[N SPAIN. 207
it being the latter part of the summer we hastened away, and set out from.
Madrid about the middle of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted at an extreme hazard
to pass on. ‘
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me, that
had been always used to a hot climate, and to countries where I could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor, indeed,~ was it more painful
than it was surprising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the
Pyrenean Mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
endanger benumbing and perishing of our ngers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with
snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the'matter, after we came to Pampeluna, it continued snowing with
so much violence, and so long, that the people said winter was come before its
time; and the roads, which were difcult before, were now quite impassable; in
a word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel, and being not hard
frozen, as is the case in the northern countries, there was no going without being
in danger of being buried alive every step. We Stayed no less than twenty days
at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its
being better, for'it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known
in many years) I proposed that we, should go away to Fontarabia, and there take
shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage. But, while I was consider-
ing this, there came in four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide,
who, traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the
mountains by such ways that they were not much incommoded with the snow; for
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough
to bear them and their horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would
undertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided
we were armed suiciently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he said,
in these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for such crea-
tures as they were, .if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which,
we are told, we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of the
mountains. He satised us that there was no danger of that kind in the way that
we were to go ;I so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other
, gentlemen, with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had
attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on the 15th of
November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he came
directly back with us on the same road that we came from Madrid, about twenty
miles; when, having passed two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow
to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, he approached the mountains
another way; and though it is true the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he
made so many ,tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we
insensibly passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and ourishing, though, indeed, they
were at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole day
and a night so fast that we could not travel; but be bid us be easy; we should
soon' be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began to descend every day, and
to come more north_than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something before
us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood; two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and, had he been far before us, he would have been devoured before we
could have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other
attacked the man with such violence that he had not time or presence of mind
enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man
Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and see what was the matter“ As'
soon as Friday came in sight of ‘the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other,
“Oh, master! Oh, master!” but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the man,
and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for, having been.
used to such creatures in his country, he had no fear upon him, _but went close
up to him and shot him; whereas, any other of us would have red at a farther
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting
the man. ' _ y ,
But it was "enough to have terried a bolder man than I; and, indeed, it
alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of Friday’s pistol, we heard on
both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled by the
echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious number
of them; and perhaps there was not such a few as that we had no cause of appre-
hension ; however, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon
the horse left him immediately, and ed, without‘ doing him any damage, having
happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his
teeth. But the man was most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him‘ twice,
once in the arm, and the other time a little above his knee; he was just, ‘as it
.were, tumbling down by the disorder ‘of his horse, when Friday came up and shot
the wolf. _
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday’s pistol we all mended our
pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very difcult, would give us leave,
 
a mg
m MM What Wm m mmm m; 5mm mam; lmy" M Hm mw Whmh Mimdmi
1w mmm, 5%“ WWW}? “what had bfrm m mm, mm} 111m!‘ E¥Eicizzy had dimmw
15M pmm guidm thm'gagh W‘'f did; mm 'g;w~as:s.~f§awmly digmm mm kémd M a mmtlm
ii WM 11% had
WW1“ 2x mamwmfmi my» imrdyg md in‘ mm a mxfgzbriizimg mmnw,
 
 
MW“: whiirh fwiimvmii htwém Wzfiw
drw and m Mmm "Whimh 'm
an, thmw m @m ‘vs/1% wm mm
Wiwd mm Mmigi {m him, m
gwmmt diwmim imagimhhm Hm bmtzr ‘£5; a” Mmy", mmzmy mew
mm? and dam “WM M Kim
wmllf (30%, mm g wif; and ght?
5% m hz"%r:»:; W0 Wr'timmr almadiiwy
whim gg’mmmy mm WW mm M
M551 migimma ,; rm, 2% m min? Mm
,Zifwfif mm hi3 Wmgmr pray (m aimw
mat: mwmiy mmmw ‘11mm, mmp;
M Wmmg ‘"mw W} mwmziiiw” § my)“ mfy mt; mmk Ewkiym mmgg 5W
km mmmiwiriy hungry? "whim it wmmkm migggi’at mm; m WW,
m ggwzmd basing mvwm with gnaw), if Wm data» zwiz mazddia with him 1% Wm mt
zmddm with 55mm; but; mm Wm mum: mm {mm m Mi: wry miwil w Iliim, wad giw
him m mzwh m km i5; 125;; vmy gmmmm; m: will mt: gm a mfp Wt, M M;
Way my‘ 2% minim ;, my» am am 'raamiy mm? mm? mm way 27% w Emk immhw
way and gaging m1 m mmmimw it?‘ Wu mmjaw mm iammd M’ awn/d, Imk
mmaifmy at him? hi2 tzzkm it {m an ,ztaffmmt; m if Wu Mammy my mama; anything, m
him; mxi him him, Waugh it waé‘m m 2% m M‘ mm m m ymu'r "tying/w,
2% mm it m an mm and mm :xii m'mr' bmimw m gamma“: izfwmggz, mad will hmw mtifafmiztim in Wm M hmmmxr MW that 213 big mt
WWW: lm i3? Mm if hm m 43mm: mmmd, m “Wim WW1” Imwm» yam,
m
night or day, till he has had his revenge, but follow at a good round rate till he
overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him, he was
helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt and frightened, and
indeed the last more-than the rst, when on a sudden we espied the bearcome
out of the wood, and a vast, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I
saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw him,
it was easy to- see joy and courage in the fellow’s countenance: “Oh, oh, oh !”
says Friday, three times, pointing to him; “Oh, master! you give me te leave, me
shakee te hand with him; me makee you good laug .”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased: “ You fool,” said I, “he will
eat you up.”--“Eatee me up! eatee me up i ” says Friday, twice over again; “me
eatee him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay here, me show you good
laugh.” So down he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and puts on a
pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his
pocket), gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun away he ew, swift
like the wind. "
The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody, till Friday
coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand him, “ Hark ye,
hark ye,” says Friday, “me speakee with you.” We followed at a distance, for
now being come down to the Gascony side of the mountains, we were entered a
vast, great forest, where the country was plain and pretty open, though it had many
trees in it scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the
bear, came up with him quickly, and took up a great stone, and threw it at him,
and hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if he had thrown
it against a wall; but it answered Friday’s end, for the rogue was so void of fear
that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he
called it. As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns about, and
comes after him, taking very long strides, and shuffling on at a strange rate, so as
would have put'a horse to a middling gallop; away runs Friday, and takes his‘
course as if he ran towards us for help; so we all resolved to re at once upon
the bear, and deliver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing
the bear back upon us, when he was going about his own business ‘another way;
and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run
away; and I called out, “You dog!” said I, “is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature.” He heard
-me, and cried out, “No shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get much laugh ;” and
as the nimble creature ran two feet for the b'east’s one, he turned on a sudden
on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree t for his purpose, be beckoned us
to follow; and doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down
upon the ground, at about ve or six yards from the bottom of the tree. The
bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance; the rst thing he did,
he stopped at the gun, smelled at it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly,
as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life see anything to laugh at
yet, till seeing the, bear get up the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the "tree, there was Friday got out to the small end of a
large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the
bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker---“ Ha !” says he
to us, “now you see me teachee the bear dance;” so he began jumping and
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began
to look behind him, to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh
heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a. great deal; when seeing him
stand still, he called out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, “What, you no come farther? pray you come farther ;” so he left jump-
ing and shaking the bough ; and the bear, just as if he had understood what he
said, did come a little farther; then he began jumping again, and the bear stopped
again. We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly,
“Oh, pray! oh, pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;” he would havesaid
by-and-by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear
stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine
whatdthe fellow would do; for rst we thought he depended upon shaking the
bear off; and ‘we found the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would not
go out far enough to be thrown down, but clung fast with his great broad claws
and. feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, and what
the jest would be at last. But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any
farther, “'Well, well,” says Friday, “you no come farther,‘ me go; you no come to
me,‘ me come to you;” and upon this he went out to the smaller end of the
bough where it would bend with his weight, and gently let himself down by it,
sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and
away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still. “Well,” said I to him,
“Friday, what will you do now? Why don’t you shoot him ?”---“No shoot,” says
Friday, “no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more laugh :”
and, indeed, so he did, as you- will see presently; for when the bear saw his
enemy gone, he came back from the bough where he stood, but did it very
cautiously, looking behind him every step, and coming backward till he got into
the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he came down
the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely.
At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet upon the ground
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and
shot him dead as a stone Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he began to laugh very
loud. “So we kill bear in my country,” says Friday. “So you kill them?" says
I; “why, you have no guns.”---“No,” says he, “no gun, but shoot great much
long arrow.” This was a good diversion to us, but we were still in a wild place,
and 'our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of
 
v
fit fiiilfllvhiipl%ti isliilsfi a“).
 
 
ii: til” i i;
 
 
~
 
 
 
 

sues heard as
never lsssrrji any”
mush is as l, indeed, sf Afries, whitish it said something,
thing that me a r so mush lssrrsr.
These things, and the spprsssh of siglrrt, ssllssl us off, as ss, as Friday
had as, we shsslri. ssrtsinly has taken the skin sf this rnrsnstress
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A TTA CA’ED B 1/ [VOL V55. 2 1 3
creature off, which was worth saving; but we had near three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and dangerous
as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for
food, and had done a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised
the country people, killing a great many of their sheep and horses, and some
people too. We had one dangerous place to pass, and~our guide told us, if there
were more wolves in the country we should nd them there; and this was a small
plain surrounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow dele, or lane,
which we were to pass to get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge. t was within half an hour of sunset when we
entered the wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the plain: we met
with nothing in the rst wood, except that in a little plain within the wood which
was not above two furlongs over, we saw ve great wolves cross the road, full
speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and had it
-in view; they took ‘no notice‘ of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this, our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep
in a ready posture, for he believed there were more wolves a-coming. We kept
our arms 'ready and our eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, which was near half a league, and entered the plain. As soon
as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to look about us: the rst
object we met with was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor horse which the
wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of them at work, we could not say eating
him, but picking his bones rather; for they ‘had eaten up all the flesh before. We
did not think t to disturb them at their feast, neither did they take much notice
of us. ' Friday would have let y at them, but I would not suffer him by any
means; for I found we were like to have more business upon our hands than we
were aware of. We had not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves bowl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and presently after we
saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of
them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced ofcers. I
scarce-knew in what manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a
close line was the only way; so we formed in a moment; but that we might not
have too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should re, and that
the others, who had not’ red, should stand ready to give them a second volley‘
immediately, if they continued to advance upon us; and then that those who had
red at rst, should not pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready, every
‘one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to re six volleys, half of us at a time:
however, at present we had no necessity; for upon ring the rst volley, the
enemy made a full stop, being terried as well with the noise as with the ‘re.
Four of them being shot in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and
went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped, ‘but did
I
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the
ercest creatures were terried at ‘ the voice of a man, I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether mistaken;
for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about. I then ordered a second
volley to be red in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they went
to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going; but we had but little more than loaded our
fusees, and put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the same
wood on our left, only that it was farther onward, the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made it the
worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was
the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived
two or three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in our
front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: however, as they did not
fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this manner, we
came in view of the entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised when, coming nearer the
' lane or pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and
looking that way, out ,rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, ying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speed. Indeed, the
horse had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that he could not hold it
at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him at last: and no
question but they did. . -
But here we had a‘most horrible sight; for, ‘riding up to the entrance where
the horse came out, we found the carcases of another horse and of two‘ men,
, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no doubt the same
whom we heard re the gun, for there lay a gun just by him red off; but as to
_the man, his head and the upper part of his body were eaten up. This lled us
with horror, and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures resolved us
soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe
there were three hundred of them. It happened, very much to our advantage, that
at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber-
trees, which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for
carriage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a
line behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree
before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclosing our
horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on us
with a growling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I
said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and this
fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned ‘by their seeing our horses behind
us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men'to fire as before, every
other man; and they took their aim so sure'that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the rst volley; but there was -a necessity to keep a continual ring, for
they came on like devils, those behind pushing on those before. »
When we had red a second volley of our fusils, we thought they stopped a
little, and I hoped they would have gone off, but it was but a moment, for others
came forward again; so we red two volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these
four rings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many,
yet they came on again. I was loth-to spend our last shot too hastily; .so I
called my servant-“not my man Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the
greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own while we
were engaged—but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him a horn of
powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large
train. He did so,’ and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up
to it, and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to the
. powder, set it on re; those that were upon the timber were scorched with it, and
six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us with the force and fright
of the re: we dispatched-these in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with
the light, which the night--for it was now very near dark—made more terrible,
that they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be red off
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout; upon this the wolves turned tail,
and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling
on the ground, and fell to ‘cutting them with our swords, which answered our ex-
pectation, for the crying and howling they‘ made was better understood by their
fellows; so that they all ed and left us.
We had, rst and last, killed. about threexscore of them, and had it been
daylight we had ‘killed many more. The eld of battle being thus cleared, we
made forward again, for we had still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous
creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several times, and sometimes
we fancied we saw some of them; but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not
certain. So. in about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it seems, that
the night before, the wolves and some bears had broke into the village, and put
them in such terror, that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but.
especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so.,much with
the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther; so we were obliged
to take a new guide here, and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm climate,
a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them;
but when we told our story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially when
the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired much what kind of a guide we
had got, who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and
told us it was surprising we were not all devoured. When we told them how
we placed- ourselves and the horses in\ the middle, they blamed us exceedingly,
and told us it was fty to one but we had been all destroyed, for. it was the
sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that
at other times they are really afraid of a gun; but being excessively hungry, and
raging on that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had made them
senseless of danger; and that if we had not by the continued re, and at last‘
by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content to have
sat still on horseback, and red as horsemen, they would not have taken the
horses so much for their own, when men were on their backs, as otherwise; and,
withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood all together, and left our horses,
they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that we might have come
off safe, especially having our rearms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for, seeing above
three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as it was,
I_ believe I shall never care to cross those mountains again; I think I would
much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a
storm once a week. ‘
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through France—-
nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with much more
advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any
considerable stay came to Calais, and-landed safe at Dover the 14th of January,
after having a severe cold season to travel in. I
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little time all my
new discovered estate safe about me, the bills of exchange which I brought with
me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient widow, who, in
gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought 'no pains too much nor care too
great to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with everything, that I
was perfectly easy as to the security of my e‘ects; and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
'gentlewoman. .
And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, I wrote
to my old friend at Lisbon, who having offered it to the two merchants, the
survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at
Lisbon to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from
Lisbon, and sent it to my old ma , who sent me the bills of exchange for
thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores a year to him (the old man) during his life,
and fty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I had promised them,
and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have
given the rst part of a life of fortune and adventure-~a life of Providence’s
S 25 KING FRESH ADVENTURES. 2 1 7
chequer-wo'rk, and of a variety which the world will seldom be able to show the
like of---beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily than any part of it
ever gave me leave so much as to hope for. -'
Any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune I was past
running any more hazards; and so, indeed, I had beenylif other circumstances
had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering life, had no family, nor many
relations; nor however rich, had I contracted mu'ch acquaintanc'e; and‘ though I.
had sold my estate in ‘the Braails, yet I could not keep that country out of‘ my
head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing again; especially I could not'
resist the strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven years she pre-
vented my running abroad, during which time I took my two nephews, the
‘children of one of my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having something of
his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition
to his estate after my decease. The other I placed with the captain of a ship;
and after ve years, nding him a sensible, bold, enterprising'young fellow, I put
him into a good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself. , .
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for, rst of all,-I married,
and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had three children,
two sons and one daughter; but my wife dying, and my nephew coming home
with good success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his
importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to
the East Indies; this was in the year 1694. I
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island; saw my successors the
Spaniards; had the whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left there; ,
how at rst they insulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards agreed, dis-
agreed, united, separated, and how‘ at last the Spaniards were obliged to use
violence with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how honestly
the Spaniards used them ;-—a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety
and wonderful accidents as my own part—particularly, also, as to their battles with
the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the island, and as to the improve-
ment they made upon the island itself—and how ve of them made an attempt
upon the mainland, and brought away eleven men and ve women prisoners, by
which, at my coming, I found about twenty young children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days--left them supplies of all necessary things,
and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I
brought from England with me--viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, reserved to myself the
property of the whole, but gave them such parts respectively as they agreed on;
and having settled all things with them, and engaged-them not to leave the place,
I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from .whence I- sent a bark, which I
bought there, with more people to the island; and in 1t, besidesother supplies, I
sent seven women, being such as I found proper for service, or for wives to such \
as would take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised them to send them some
women from England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply them-
selves to planting—which I afterwards could not perform. The fellows proved
very honest and diligent after they were mastered, and had ‘their properties set
apart for them. I sent them, also, from the Brazils, ve cows, three of them being
big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which when I came again were con-
siderably increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hundred Caribbees came and
invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they fought with that whole
number twice and were at rst defeated, and one of them killed; but, at last, a,
storm destroying their enemies’ canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all the
rest, and renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived
upon the island—all these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I shall give a further account of in the‘
Second Part of my history.
 
 
seen are new sash” i
 
 
 
ii hearely ernrerh, need en as many eeessinns in lilaglsnrl, , ‘i lllhar what:
is hreri in "the hene will net gn ear ef the esh,” was nerer mere than
in the siery hi my life. any ens wenhl thine that: afrer thirtyvhre years’ aiietien,
and a “variety sf nnhaeifiy eirennrsranee whieh few seen, if any, erer went rhreegh
hefere, sari sites near seren ei‘ and, enjeynienr in the ialness ef tliiings, green aid, and when, if ever, it mighr he allewed are in here had
eseerienee hf erery ef niirlrlle life, and in hhew whieh was rnest rntlaetetl in
make rash enrnjjileiely haeey i say, sites all rliiis, any nee wenlrl have rheaghr
that: the satire ;inepensiry re rarnhling, whieh i gave an aeeennr nf in my setting ear in the werlti in here heen an pretlnnrinant in theeghts, shnnlrl were eat, the relatile hart hilly eraenated, er al: iessr eenrlenserl, and i rnighr,
at sistyvene years sf hare heen a litrle inelineri re stay at heme, and hase
rinse rehearing life and ferraae any mere.
Nay, farther, the eemraen rentire hi fereiga adrentares was rslren away in are,
far i had he ferrene tn niahe i had writhing re seeh; if if harl gained ten
rhensaad errands, I had heen an rieher ; far I had already saiiieienr fer are, and;
fer these i in lease it in and what i” hari was sisilgily inereasing ; fer hissing
an great family, if eealcl net seend the iaeerne ef what i" had, naless I wenlrl, set
an fer an eseensire way ef lining, shah as a grass family, servants, erniipage,
gaiety, and the» like, whieh were I had an rietina ef, er inelinatinn in; an
that i had hashing, indeed, in tin hat in sit still, and. frilly enjey white 1 had get,
 
 
and see it increase daily upon my hands. Yet all these things had no effect upon
1 me, or at least not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad
again, which hung about me like a chronical distemper. In particular, the desire
of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, ran in my
head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all
day; it was uppermost in all my thoughts; and my fancy worked so steadily and.
strongly upon it, that I talked of it in. my sleep; in short, nothing ‘could remove it
out of my mind: it even broke so violently into all my discourses that it made my
conversation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into it,
even to impertinence; and I saw it myself. , '
I have often heard persons of " good judgment say, that all the stir people make
in the world about ghosts‘ and apparitions-is“ o'wing to the strength of imagination,
and the powerful operation of fancy in; their minds; that there is no such thing as
a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking; that p'eople’s poring affectionately upon the
past conversation of their deceased friends, so realises it to them, that they are
capable of fancying, upon some'extraordinary circumstances, that ‘they see them,
talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but
shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know nothing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such things as
real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after they are dead ,- or whether
there is anything in the stories they tell us of that kind more than the product of
vapours, sick minds, and wandering fancies; but this I know, that my imagination
worked up to such a height, and brought me into such excess of vapours, or what
else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old
castle, behind the trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday’s father, and the reprobate
sailors I left upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked at.
.them steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons ‘ just before me; and this I
did till I often frightened myself with the images my fancy represented to me.
One time, in my sleep, I had the villany of the three pirate sailors so lively
related to me by the rst Spaniard and Friday’s father, that it was surprising;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that
they set re to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve
them; things that I had never heard of, and that, indeed, were never all of them
true in fact: but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me, that,
to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or would be, -
true; also how I resented it, when the Spaniard complained to me; and how I
brought them to justice, tried them, and ordered them» all three to be hanged.
What there wasreally in this shall be seen in its place; for however I came to
form such things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits injected it, yet
there was, I say, much of it true. I own that this dream had nothing in-it literally
and specically true; but the general part was so true----the base, villanous
behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse
than all I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude of the fact; and
as I would afterwards have punished them severely, so, if I had hanged them all,
' going to say.
SETTLING DOWN. .2 2 r
I had been much in the right, and even should have been’ justied both by the
laws of God and man. But to return to my story. _In this kind of temper, ‘I
lived some years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable
diversion, but what had something or other of this in it; so that my wife, who
saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night, that she
believed there was some secret, powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which
had determined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing hindered my
going, but my being engaged to a wife and children. She told me that it was
true she could not think of parting with me: but as she was assured that if she
was dead it would be the rst thing I would do; so, as it seemed to her that
the thing was determined above, she would not be the only obstruction; for, if I
thought t and resolved to go [Here she found me very intent upon her
words, and that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her,
and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out what she was
But I perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood
in her eyes] “Speak out, my dear,” said I; “are you willing I should go P”
“No,” says she, very affectionately, “I am far from willing; but if you are
resolved to go,” says she, “rather than I would be the only hindrance, I will go
with you; for though I think it a most preposterous thing for one of your years,
 
I and in your condition, yet, if it must be,” said she, again weeping, “I would not
leave you; for, if it be of Heaven, you, must do it; there is no resisting it; and
if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also make it mine to go with you,
or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it.”
This a‘ectionate behaviour of my wife’s brought me a little out of the vapours,
and I began to consider what I was doing; I corrected my wandering fancy, and
began to arguewith myself sedately what business I had, after threescore years,
and after such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy,
and easy a manner—I say, what business had I to rush into new hazards, and put
myself upon adventures t only for youth and poverty to run into?
With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I had a wife, one
child born, and my wife’ then great with child of another; that I had all the world
could give me, and had no need to seek hazardfor gain; that I was declining in
years, and ought to think rather .of leaving what I had gained than of seeking to
increase it; that as to what my wife had said of its being an impulse from
Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that; so, after
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned
myself out of it; as I believe people may always do in like cases if they will; and,
in a word, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as occurred to
my thoughts, and which my present condition furnished me plentifully with; and
particularly, as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert myself with other
things, and to engage in some business that might effectually tie me up from any
more excursions of thisukind; for I found that thing return upon me chiey when
I was idle, and had nothing to do, nor anything of moment immediately before
me. To this purpose, I bought 'a little farm in the county of Bedford, and
resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient ‘house upon it, and
the land about it, I found, was capable of great improvement; and it was many
ways suited to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting,
and improving of land; and particularly, being an inland county, I was removed
from conversing among sailors, and things relating to the remote parts of
the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought ploughs,
harrows, a cart, wagon, horses, cows, and sheep, and, setting seriously to work,
became in_ one half-year a mere country gentleman; my thoughts were entirely
taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, &c.;
and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was capable of
directing,'or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of retreating to.
I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was limited by no articles;
I could pull up’or cut down as I pleased; what I planted was for myself, and
what I improved was for my family; and having thus left off the thoughts of '
wandering, I had' not the least discomfort in any part of life as to this world.
Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle state of life, which my father so
earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, something like
"what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a country life :—
“Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.”
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen Providence unhinged
me at once; and not only made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me, by its consequences, into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me;
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force
upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not my business here to write
an elegy upon my wife, give a character of her particular virtues, and make my
court to the sex by the attery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the
stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her
prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant
and ruinous project that lled my head; and did more to guide my rambling
enius than a mother’s tears, a father’s instructions, a friend’s counsel or all m
, g a Y
own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening to her, and in being
moved by her entreaties; and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the
world by the loss of her. When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round
me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I rst went on shore there; and as much alone, except for the assistance of
servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to think ‘nor what to do.
I saw the world busy around me; one part labouring for bread, another part
squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, equally miserable, because the end
they proposed still ed from them; for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of
their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and the men of labour
L ONDON. ' 2 2 3
spent their strength in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength they
laboured with; so living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and
working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of wearisorne ‘life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island; where I
suffered no more com to grow, because I did not want it; and bred no more
goats, because I had no more use for them; where the money lay inthe drawer
till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, and as reason
and religion had dictated to me, would have taught me to search farther than
human enjoyments for a full felicity; and that there was something which certainly
was the reason and end of life, superior to all these things, and which was‘ either
to he possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot, that- could
only run afore the wind. My thoughts ran all away again into the old affair; my
head was quite turned with the whimseys of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant,
innocent amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and my family, which
before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were like
music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste; in a word, .I
resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London; and in a
few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I had rio
relish for the place,‘ no employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about like
.an idle person, of whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in God’s creation,
and it is not one farthing’s matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or
alive. This also was the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most
my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself, “A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;” and, indeed,
I thought I was much more suitably employed when‘ I was twenty-six days making
a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, whom, as I
have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him commander
of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the rst he had
made. He came to me, and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance
had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies, and to
China, as private traders. “And now, uncle,” says he, “if you will go to sea with
me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the island; for we
are to touch at the Brazils.”
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, ‘and of the existence
of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of
things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to
any in the world. i -
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was returned
upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to say, when that
very morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of confusion of
thought, and revolving every ‘part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this
resolution, that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-captain ; and
if it was rational and practicable, I would go and‘ see the island again, and what
was become of my people there. I had pleased myself with the thoughts of
peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the
possession, and I know not what; when, in the middle of all this, in comes my
nephew, as I have said, with his project of carrying me thither in'his way to the
East Indies. _
I paused awhile at his 'words, and looking steadily at him, “What devil,” said
I, “sent you on this unlucky errand?” My nephew stared as if he had been
frightened, at rst; but perceiving that I was not much displeased with the
proposal, he recovered himself. “I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal,
sir,” says he; “ I dare say you would be pleased to see your new colony there,
where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother monarchs
in the world.” . .
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
prepossession I was under, and of which I have said so much, that I told him,
in a few words, if he agreed with the, merchants, I would go with him; but I
told him I would not promise to go any farther than my own island. “Why,
sir,” says he, “you don’t want to be left there again, I hope?” “Why,” said I,
“ can you not take me up again on your return?” He told me it would not be
possible to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to come that way
with a laden ship of such value, it being a month’s sail out of his way, and
might be three'or four. “Besides, sir, if I should miscarry,” said he, “and not
return at all, then you would be just reduced to the condition you were
in before." .
This was very rationalybut we both found out a -remedy for it; which was,
to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of some carpenters, whom we
agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the island, and nished t to go to
sea in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the importunities of my nephew joined
so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me. On the other
hand, my wife being dead, nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to
persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow,
who earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and
the needless hazards,of a long voyage; and above all, my young children. But
it was all to no purpose; I had an irresistible desire for the voyage; and I told
her I thought there was something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to
stay at home; after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not
only in making provision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for
my absence, and providing for the education of my children.
f m TMQM‘? WW 1%? www ,2 2 5
 
w m m} §W%%E-%}é>;%l ” { azmh
M maa? m m mif'f, I, my Wm, mud Mm in mfx xmmnm My my ml'zikdmn, zmd plmmd m amizh mm, that Wm; ymmmiiiiiy l'ziiy , qr‘,
 
 
M’
{i haw: jmmm dazrxv'z Khf, Wmiwm m m
mm waimirziiiiam I 16%: ‘£35; WWW}? m m 'wégjimwy mm a mimimt mimirmmmm m
hmgrléf {m hm mi}. Maiazh riamly {m m mmtkmr amid mm
mkzm 11mm: (12.12%? "£11 Mm???” whmmmm m xmdwammi it: hmm; and m; m 1mm; I mmaa Emmm I £12m?) m thank m Mr in
NW n9 El‘mw mady m mm m bgmmimg M Mummy, Mwmgg and I,
with my mm ridzxyg Wwt am mm, in, KM llmwm, mm thaw W”; J; mwigy kmidw
{MM 51%;}? whixm Wmmimmd alimwm wry mmidmzmi mgm £115 211]; kinda, M
mmsamry {my my mhmy; whim, if 1*; did mm nd in mmiiitimm, I
mwiwimii m Maw am
Firs/fiat, I’, mmiml W'iih mimw :wtrz'z'wmmy Whmim pmpmzd m gmm Mwrm m;
imhahéémmm, m lam/git, m mt m mark thwm, Wigwam my mxxwmm, whim I tawdw
mmd iiiwr m Mmir thfm, mam m mam’ imm ,fzmvimi, m Hwy zahw‘id zzpwm
wining ;, Wz'zzimizmy I wmm Wm £Z§EWEMHM%% maxim, and wry hmciyj ingwimm
Mmw, Whm a mwpm Karma, mm Wm M1150 :1 gmm miwmmmim my“ m "Wm;
dmm'mm at making; Wmm, and mrzqimilm my mind 41mm Wm gmdi mmmf', and
a gmd pmwrmmr; M55711?) 11mm: myahimég Mimi WM Wmgmr £1235; M wmh m
Inf’ Wmmi ; in :1 Ward? W3 mm him may” 3"”wivmflaaliwtmiiww W Wm myriad
1%
Ham’ 'Wzjmi WW: 'l'mfzm mad {kw
 
 
-_.,
a tailor, who had offered himself to go a passenger to the East Indies with my
nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation; and who proved
a most necessary, handy fellow, as could be desired, in many other businesses
besides that of his trade; for, as I observed ‘formerly, necessity arms us for all
employments. ‘ »
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept account of the par-
ticulars, consisted of a sufcient quantity of linen, and some English thin stuffs,
for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to nd there; and enough of them as,
by my calculation, might comfortably supply them for seven years. If I remember
right, the materials I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings,
and all such things as they could want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred
pounds, including some beds, bedding, and household stu“, particularly kitchen
utensils, with 'pots, kettles, pewter, brass, 8.10., and near a hundred pounds more
in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of. ' _ ‘
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees ; besides some pistols,
a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and, because I ‘knew not what time and what extremities
I was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels-of powder, besides swords, cutlasses,
and the iron part of some pikes and halberts ; so that, in short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of stores: and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-
'deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion;
that when we came there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of
enemies; and, indeed, I at rst thought there would be need enough for all, and
much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of the story. I '
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet with;
and, therefore, shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps,
may be impatient to hear how matters went with my colony. Yet some odd
accidents, ‘cross winds, and bad weather, happened on this rst setting out, which
made the voyage longer than I expected it at rst; and I, who had never made
but one voyage, my rst voyage to Guinea, in ‘which I might be said to come
back again, as the voyage was at rst designed, began to think the same ill fate
‘attended me; and that I was born to he never contented with being on shore,
and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. ,
Contrary winds rst put us to the northward, and we were obliged to put in
at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-and~twenty days; but we had
this satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and
'in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship’s
stores, but, rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore
in my island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out 'on the 5th of Febr'uary'frorn Ireland, and.had-a very fair gale of .
wind for some days; As I remember, it might 'be about the 20th of February, in
A FIRE AT SEA. ' 227
the evening late, when the mate, having the watch,-came into the round-house, and
told us he saw a ash of re, and heard a gun red; and while he was telling us
of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us
all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, for awhile, we heard nothing; but in a
few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was some very terrible
‘ re at a distance. Irn'mediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we
all agreed‘ that there could be no land that way in which the re showed itself, no,
not for ve hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this, we concluded
it must be some ship on re at sea; and, as, by our hearing the noise of guns just
before, we concluded that it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and '
were presently satised we should discover it, because the farther we sailed, the
greater the light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we could not perceive
anything but the light for a while. In abogut half an hour‘s sailing, the wind
being fair for us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing up 'a little, we
could plainly discern that it was a great ship on re, in the middle of the sea.
. I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all acquainted
with thepersons engaged in it: I presently recollected my ‘former circumstances,
and what condition I was in when taken up by the Portuguese captain; and how
much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor creatures belonging'to that
ship must be, if they had'no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I
immediately ordered that ve guns should bevred, one soon after another, that,
if possible, we might ‘give notice to them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for though we
could see the ames of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.'
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove, wait-
ing for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and immediately, that is'to say, in a
few minutes, all the re was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This
was a terrible, and, indeed, an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who,
I concluded,‘ must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be .in the utmost distress
in their boat, in' the middle of the ocean; which, at present, as it was dark, I
could not see. However, to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights .to
be hung out in all parts of the ship where we could, and which we had lanterns
for, and kept ring guns all the night long;.letting them know by this that there
was a ship not far off. ‘
About eight o’clock in the morning, we discovered the ship’s boats by the help
of our perspective glasses, and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water.- We perceived they rowed, the wind being against
them; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them‘ know we saw them, and hung
a waft out, as a signal for them to come on‘ board ; and then made more sail,
standing directly to 'them. In little more than half an hour, we came up with
them; and, in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women,
and children; for there were a great many passengers. A - _
Upon inquiry, we found it was a French merchant ship of three hundred tons,
homeward~bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master gave "us-a
long account of the distress of his ship; how the re began in the steerage, by
the negligence of the steersmarr; but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody
thought, entirely put out ; but they soon found that some sparks of the rst re had
got into some part of the ship so difhcult to come at that they could not effectually
quench it; and afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within the‘ ceiling
of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the
application they were able to exert. * I
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to their great
comfort, were pretty large; being their long-boat, and a great 'shallop, besides a
small skiff, which was of no great service to them, other than to get some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they had secured their lives from the re.
They had, indeed, small hope of their lives by getting into these boats, at that
distance from land; only, as they said, that they thus escaped from the re, and
there was a possibility that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might take
them in. They had sails, oars, and a ‘compass; and were preparing to make the
best of their way back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew
an easy gale at S.E. by E. They had as much provision and water as, with‘
sparing it so as to be next door to starving, might support them about twelve
days, in which,'if they had no bad weather and no contrary winds, the captain
said he hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps
take some sh, to sustain them till they might go on shore. But there were so
many chances against them in all these cases, such as storms, to overset and
founder them; rains and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds,
to keep them out and starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.
In the midst of their consternation, every one being hopeless and ready to
despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me they were on a sudden sur-
prised with the joy of hearing a gun re, and after that four more: these were
the ve guns which I caused to be red at rst seeing the light. This revived
their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired it should, that
there was a ship at hand for their help. It was upon the hearing of these guns
that they took down their masts and sails: the sound coming from the windward,
they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns,
they red three muskets, one a considerable while after another; but these, the
wind being contrary, we never heard. '
Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised with seeing
our lights, and hearing the guns which, as I have said, I ‘caused to be red all
the rest of the night. This set them to work with their oars, to keep their boats
ahead, at least, that we might the sooner come up with them; and, at last, to
their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange ecstacies,
the variety of postures which these poor delivered people ran ‘into, to express
 
x
k}
 
 
w
 
 
fix Wmkm‘f.
4; Wm? gmimm' my MW mmm
mm» m? ‘aim Wm M iii; Wmmy ; hilt 'tm. mmw'
iiwmmmii mrzwaggwm‘e; in it,“
11mm; 55, if Hwy m1 “raving; and dmwmihm 1mm;
 
 
(him smai f“ @211" 23m amay
M?" Kim if m mwmi h {113%,
m“ 2% mwwfw mi jay; }"z% &
fli’g in 1mm; Wm ‘” mid tmrig
W215’ mi" mm'mw imam EMWM
mm Mmm; m will; Wmwimg WM} thmir {mm
 
 
 
 
 
 
:W
 
 
 
“ TM
 
 
w WJKW WW ( myln
mzhmg Mi“;
 
 
 
gyms: mir mm; wm WW6? {Ea/min
4
 
 
“mm imgiz @mmw lam him%
mmxr ying, rmmy {Wm mm mm: m h? m gpmk & Wmd; mmm and
mitmg; 5% m}, wéimifg 51ml 2* mi}? m f; ‘m mad “a; {3% WW
and gaEfvimg (limil mmmw
I‘ Wmmd tf Wmmg 1% m fth W; thaw: mm 1% many mm “WM {"392 mm} mmw
Wm‘m'iig; but; tha: pzmmm Wm; MW mmtjmg {017* ta'l‘wrm m: mt, and my Ww mm mm
m rmmm it’; Hwy Wm immwn mm’ 5% and kind m" {mm 3% an , it Wm hm”;
42% WW {W that Wm; zimmgimmd mifi famfiwm in iihsir jay“
zmmm mam {hm {23% may haw: 50m" miditimm m {mm th gmimim Mr“
mmtmm M m mtimm thmy mlamgwd m I ‘aim/mm m LIMWZh, WWW WWW“? i
Mmwmi m m mam mmttiig, mam ;‘ hwiwilii“; and mmm agjgwihh", mail zmiz" Wirim
mm uid, imam M with 1? mtiwm, X mm mm Mzmwphw @mimgfz m dmmwim th
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cause; but nothing'I had ever seen before came up to it. The ecstacies poor
Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father in the boat, came the
nearest to it; and the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom I
.delivered from the villains that set them on shore in the island, came a little way
towards it; but nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
anywhere else in my life. '
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show themselves in
that different manner I have mentioned, in different persons only; but all the
variety would appear, in a short succession of moments, in one and the same
I . o s I
person. A man that we saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and con- , .
founded, would the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the
next moment be tearing "his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping
them under his feet like a madman; in a few moments after we would have him
all in tears,_ then sick,‘swooning, and, had not immediate help been had, he would
in a few minutes have been dead; and thus it was not with one or two, or ten
or twenty, but with the greatest part of them; and, ,if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty of them.
There were two priests among them: one an old man, and the other a young
man; and ‘that which was strangest was, the oldest man was the worst. As soon
as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone
dead to all appearaiice; not the least sign of life could be perceived in him:
our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the only
man in the ship that believed he was not dead. At length he opened a vein in
his arm, having rst chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm has much as
possible. Upon this, the blood, which only dropped at rst, owing freely, in three
minutes after the man opened his eyes; and a. quarter of an hour after that he
spoke, grew better, and in a little time quite well. After the ‘blood was stopped,
,he walked about, told .us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the
surgeon gave him, and had come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after
this, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French
woman that had fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems
he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and again
this put him into an ecstacy of ‘joy. His spirits whirled about faster than the
vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish; and the man was as
t for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it. The surgeon would not bleed
him again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and put him to
sleep; which, after some time, operated upon him, and he awoke next morning
perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions, and was
really an example of a serious, well-governed mind. At his rst coming on
board the ship, he threw himself at on his face, prostrating himself in
thankfulness for his deliverance, in which I unhappily and unseasonably dis-
turbed him, really. thinking he had been 'in a swoon; but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance, begged me
i
\
GM TJTUDE OF ‘THE SA V50. 2 3 I
to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me
thanks also. 1
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but kept
others from interrupting him also. He continued in that posture about three
minutes, or little more, after I left him, then came to- me, as he had said he would,
and, with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes,
thanked me, that had, under God, given him and so many miserable creatures their
lives. I told him I had no need to tell him to- thank God for it, rather than me,
for I had seen that he had done that already; but I added that it was nothing
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much
reason as he to give thanks to God, who hadiblessed us so far as to make us the
instruments of His mercy to so many of His creatures.
After this the young priest applied himself to his countrymen; laboured to
- compose them; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his
utmost to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and with some he had
success, though others were for a time out of all government-of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be useful to those
into whose hands it may fall, for guiding themselves in the extravagances ‘of their
passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the
reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and a pro-
voked mind, carry us to? And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding
watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction, as
, those of sorrow and anger. .
We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among our new guests,
for the rst day; but after they had retired to lodgings provided for them as well
as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartilyw-as most of them did, being
fatigued and frightened—they were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good ,manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown
them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally apt enoughto exceed
that way. The captain and one of the priests came to me the next day, and
desired to speak with me and my nephew. The commander began to consult with
us what should be done with them; and, rst, they told us we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that kindness received.
The captain said they had saved some money and somethings of value in their
boats, caught hastily out“ of the ames, and if we would accept it, .they were ordered
to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in ‘our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to France. My nephew
wished to accept their money at rst word, and to consider what to do with
~ them afterwards; but I overruled him in that part, for I knew what it was to be
‘ set on shore in a strange country; and if the Portuguese captain that took me
up at sea‘ had served me so, and taken all I had for my deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a
much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, much worse.
a a fi’ tastes,
I theteiere teid the iireheh eajjitaie that
we had takers them his it't their distress, it ttee, hat that it was eat tiaty ta as, as
were felieseeteatat 1; ariti we weahil he as tieiiseteti, if we is the at
say ether ttttitttt'ttiif” ; that we had; these
sethittg far there hat what we heiieseti
they weehi hate rises the as, it we
had heart is theit sari they iii
eats ; hat that teeh there as tax
that th pleetiet theta; sad
it weehi he a meat hathareas thieg
ta taite that httie
theta whieh
they sated eat
ef the sad thee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
set these as share are.
lease them; that this
weuiti itifhil ta ease
them time death, ahtii
thee itiii theta tittitt'»
aeises ; sees there here,
titewaihg, ti ahaatiett
theta ta statsiag; aeti,
thetefere, if wettiti eat
let the ieast thiag he
‘takes treat them. te settihtt tlitettt his
share, i tehi theta,
indeed, that was are
tiithealty its
as, the that the stairs
heeeti te the ladies; aati theegh
we were titisee eat at“
state stresses sis: has with that t asst, m” m w ’ t " ward a easy
sad hesitates were tii»
teeteti hy easea ea patjissse has their tieiisetaaee, it was impassihie " fat as
with/thy te ehahge ear seyage as their psttiettiat aeeeattt; her eeald thy eephew,
the eaptaih, aeswet it he iteightets, "with where he was aatiet shatter ta phrase
seyage hy way at tirasii; aati all i kaew we eeaid tie far there was, is
II/[AKJNG ‘FOR THE PVEST INDIE-S‘. 2 3 3
ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West
Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, to England or France.
The rst part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they could not but’
be very thankful for it; but they were in very great consternation, especially the
passengers, at the notion,of being carried away to the East Indies; they then
entreated me, that as I was driven so far to the westward before I met with
them, I would, at least, keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfoundland,
where it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop that they might hire
to carry them back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on' their part, and therefore I
inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered that to carry this whole company
to the East Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor people,
but would be ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions; so I
thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made ab-
‘solutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were to blame; for
the laws of God and nature would have forbid that we should refuse to-take up
two boats full of people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of the
thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on
shore somewhere or other for their deliverance. So I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit; and if not, that
I would carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and as the
winds had continued in the points between NE. and S.E.-a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France; for we met several ships bound -
to Europe, whereof two were French, from St. Christopher’s ; but they had been
"so long beating up against the wind that they durst not take in passengers, for a
fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a week after .this
that we made the Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we put
all our French people on board a barque, which they hired at sea there, to put
them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get provisions
to victual themselves with. When I say all the French went on shore, -I should
remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East
Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to be ‘set onshore on the coast of
Coromandel; which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the seamen entered
themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
_ From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering away S. and
S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind at all; when
we met with another subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable
as that before. i
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the 19th day of
March, ‘1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course SE. and by S. We soon per-
ceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at rst
0
know what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found she had
lost her main-topmast, foremast,‘ and bowsprit; and presently she red a gun as a
signal of distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at N.N.W. a fresh gale, and
we soon came to speak with her. .
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, but had been
blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before she was ready to sail, by
a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate were ‘both gone on shore;
so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to bring the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at sea, and
had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, which had
blown them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in which they had
lost their masts. They told us they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands,
but were then driven_away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind at
NN.W., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work the ship with but
a maincourse, and a kind of square sail upon a jury-foremast, which they had set
up, they could not lie near the wind, but'were endeavouring to stand away for
the Canaries. ‘ i I
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved for want
‘of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone; their bread and esh were
quite gone; they'had not one ounce left in the ship, and had had none for eleven
‘days. The only relief they had was, their water was not all spent, and they had
about half a barrel of our left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweetmeats, they had at rst, but they were alldevoured ; and they had seven
casks of rum.
There was a youth, and his mother,_ and a maid-servant on board, who were
‘ passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board the
evening before the hurricane began; and having no provisions of their own left,
they were .in a more deplorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be
sure, for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in such a condition that
their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me (the weather
being fair, and the wind abated) to go on board the ship. The second mate, who
upon this occasion commanded the ship, \had been on board our ship, and he told
me they had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable condition:
“Nay,” says he, “I believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for
above two dayszland I was afraid to inquire after them,” said be, “for I had
nothing to relieve them with.”
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could spare;
and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that I would have
victualled them, though we had gpne away to Virginia, or any other part of the
coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid of eating too much,
even of that little we gave them. The mate, or commander, brought six men with
'
THE STARVING "C125 W. 235
him in his boat; but these poor wretches looked, like skeletons, and were so weak
that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went share
and share alike with them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immediately; and
he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick and out of order;
so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him something with some broth,
which he said would be to him both food and physio: and after he had taken it
he grew better. In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given the'in, and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it: they were so
‘ exceedingly hungry that they .were in a manner ravenous, and had no command of
themselves; and two of them ate with so much greediness, that they were in danger
of their lives the next ‘morning. '
The sight of these people’s distress was very moving to me, and brought to
mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my rst coming on shore in my island,
where I had never the least mouthful of food, or any prospect» of procuring any;
besides the hourly apprehensions I had of being made the food of other creatures.
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable condition of the
ship’s company, I could not put out of my thought the story he had told me of
the three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz., the mother, her son, and the
maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom, he
seemed to confess, they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great:
by which I understood, that ‘they had really given them no food at all, and that
therefore they must be perished, and be all. lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or
deck of the cabin. , . .
As I therefore kept the mate, whom ‘We then called captain, on board with his
men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that were left on
board: but ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and, with:my mate
and twelve men, to carry them a ‘sack of bread, and four or ve pieces of beef to
boil. ‘Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they
stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to eat ‘
raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and then to give every
man'but a very little at a time: and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that was given them on
purpose to save' their lives. '
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,’ and see what
condition the poor passengers were in; and if they were alive, to comfort them,
and give‘ them what refreshment was proper: and the surgeon gave him a large '
pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on
board, and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satised with this': but, as I said above, having a great mind to see
the scene ‘of misery which I knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as
wenow called him, with me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost‘ in a tumult, to get thelvictuals out‘ of
the boiler before it was ready; but the mate observed his orders, and kept a good
guard at the cook-room door; and the man he placed there, after using all possible
persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some
biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the meat,
which they called brewis, and gave them every onesome, to stay their stomachs,
and told them it was for their own safety that he was obliged to give them but
‘little at a. time. But it was all in vain; and had I not come on board, and their
own commander and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats
also of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-room
by force, and tom the meat out of the furnace; for words are indeed of very
small force to a hungry belly: however, we pacied them, and fed them gradually
and cautiously for the rst, and the next time gave them more, and at last lled
their bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature, and
far beyond the rest; for as, rst, the ship’s company had so little for themselves,
it was but too true that they had at fir‘st kept them very low, and .at last totally
neglected them: so that for six or seven, days it might be said they had really
no food at all, and for severzil days before very little. The poor mother, who, as
the men reported, was a woman of sense. and good breeding, had spared all she
could so affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sank under it; and
when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the oor or deck, with her back
up against the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head,
sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate said
all he could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into
her mouth. She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak:
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating that it was
too late for her, but pointed to her child,-as if she would have said they should
take care of him. However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved at the sight,
endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two
or three spoonfuls down; though I question whether he could be sure of it or
not: but it was too late, and she died the same night. ' '
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate mother's
life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one stretched out with
hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having
eaten up the rest of it: however, being young, and having more strength' than his
mother, the mate got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary,
he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the deck, hard
by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy,
and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted; one of her bands was clasped
round the frame of the chair and she gripped it so hard that we could not easily
make her let it go; her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both
 
[ me ,5) 3% e W t (it it tit/1 ~ M’ W
ttttfethen eet feet etgeittet the fteete ef the eaten teeter: tie sheet, the lay jttetm like
we tn the e, eeiee et' tleetlt, will tell 5th Wag 3 mm"
the t
thetttthte ef tieeth, hut, ee the teett telnet ee Wm bmiiwwm wmd {W my
ettetteet, ‘wheat the sew tititte fee tee et three btmtte wili Wimm gm iwid
tweet tetttltttly»
We knew net whet te tie with the peer tjitt; fer whee eet i.
 
 
eet eteetttte wee net eeiy eteteetl with, lteeget, end tettifted with
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tttgeee, Witt} vtttte
 
teetttt teee teett ett eeaett ettteet re e tettee't t eye).
a
 
 
4',
teeeverett het ee te life, he heat her ettett hie heeele ettttt mt’ ette wee ttttle tese
thee titietteeted fee eeeeitietehle time ttftet,
Wtteevet eitteil reetl the e eteteee etteete meet he tieeitett te eetteitiet, that vie”? e
at eett tre eet like a jetttney tnte the tw’ttt’ttt}, wltete eetttetitttee nettle etey e week
e't e fettttigttt at e ptee : eat hetitteee w toe telteee thte diettetetti ettipie etew,
but eet lie tty tee there; and theegit they were wilting te eteet the eatee eeetee
with ee fer eetee eey
e teen ef eety greet teewettge entl eitp tieeee, bed, with great eplieetiee,
 
 
 
 
yet we eeettt tizetty "we eetl, te keep eaee with a thin that
had tie teeetet heweeet, ee theit eeeteie ef es te help him te eet en a mains
tetttneet, and e tried et'“ tenet et te itie jeetst‘eteeeeet, {we die, ee it wet-e, tie
 
 
 
 
him for three or four days; and then, having given him ve barrels of beef, a
barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, our, and
what other things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces-of-eight from them for satisfaction, we left them, taking on
board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all
their goods. '
The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well-bred, modest,
and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother, and, as it seems,
he had lost his father but a few months before, at Barbadoes: he begged of the
surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the ship; for he said the cruel fellows
had murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they had, ‘that is to say, passively; for
they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might
have preserved her life, though. it had been but just enough to keep her alive;
but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice, no right, and therefore is
remorseless, and capable of no compassion. . ~
The surgeon told him how far ‘we were going, and that it would’ carry him‘
away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost
as! those we found him in, that is to say, starving in‘ the world. He said it
mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered from the terrible crew that
he was among; that the captain (by which he meant‘ me, for he could know
nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would. not'hurt him;
and as for the maid, he was sure, ‘if “she came to herself, she would be very
thankful for it, let us carry them where we would. The surgeon represented the
case so affectionately to me that I yielded, and we took them both on board, with
all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or
come at; and as the youth had a'bill of lading for them, I made his. commander.
sign a writing, obliging himself to go as'soon as he came to Bristol, to one, Mr.
Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was related, and to deliver
a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased.
widow; which I suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came
to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so disabled a con-
dition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion the rst storm she. met
with afterwards, she might founder in the sea, for she was leaky, and had damage
in her hold, when we met with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32‘min'utes, and had hitherto a tolerable
voyage as to weather, though, at rst, the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble
nobody with the little incidents of wind, ‘weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our
voyage; but, to shorten my story, shall observe that I came to my old habitation,
the island, on 'the roth of April, 1695. It was with, no small difculty that I
found the place; for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and
east side of the island, coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in between the
main and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor,any landmark,‘I did ' i
not know' it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not.
We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in the mouth
\
EXPL 012mm THE [sun/‘0.9. 2 39
of the great river 'Oronooque, but none for my purpose; only this I learned -by my
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake before, viz., that the con-
tinent which I thought I saw from the island I lived in, ,was really no continent,
but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other
side of the extended mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came
to my island were not properly those which we call Caribees, but islanders, and
other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited nearer to our side than the rest-
In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found were
inhabited, and some were not; on one of them I found some Spaniards, and
thought they had lived there; but, speaking with them, found they had a sloop
lying in a small creek hard by, and came thither to make salt, and to catch some
pearl-mussels if they could; but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which
lay ‘farther north, in the latitude of IO and 11 degrees. '
Thus, coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, some-
times with the Frenchmen’s shallop, which ‘we had found a convenient boat, and
therefore kept her with their very good will, at length I came fair on the south
side of my island, and presently knew the very countenance of the place: so I
brought the ‘ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old
habitation was.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he knew
where he was? He looked about a little, and, presently clapping his hands, cried,
“Oh, yes; oh, there—oh, yes; oh, there!”pointing to our old habitation, and fell
dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him from
jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
-“ Well, Friday,” says I, “do you think we shall nd anybody here or no? and
do you think we shall see your father?” The fellow stood mute as a stock a
good while; but, when I named his father, the poor‘ affectionate creature looked
dejected, and I could see the tears run down his face very plentifully. “What
is the matter, Friday?” said I; “are you troubled because you may see your
father?” “No,tno,” says he, shaking his head, “no see him more: no, never
more see him again.” “Why. so,” said I, “Friday? how do you know that?"
“ Oh, no, oh, no,” says Friday; “he long ago die, long ago; he much old man.”
“Well, well,” says ‘I, “Friday, you don’t know; but shall we see any one else,
then?” The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he points to the‘, hill
just above‘ my old house; and, though we lay half a league off, he cries out,
“ Me see, me see, yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and there!” I
looked, but I saw nobody—no, not with a perspective-glass, which was, I suppose,
because I could not hit the place; for the fellowwas right, as I found upon
inquiry the 'next day; and there were ve or six men all together, who stood to
look at the'ship, not knowing what to think of us.
‘ As'soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English ancient to
be spread, and red three guns, to give them notice we were friends; and in about
half a quarter of an hour after we perceived a smoke arise' from the side of the
creek; so I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me; and, hanging
(2,41% 1%? mmw 4w (NJ/z
mm; a, whim 01:“ £1, m“ mmiiw, mam; dimmy aim Mammy taking wiih WW I xmmiwmd, m wmmfm 1% mm m @amzfy M my wmg thm“, and
Mia“ nmmmr 1;}? Qt, and Qwzry Wrihzzulm, kmih m5 E"“%"”i§/'Mf% and thm EM: thrm Mai
Wm wwgz, m1 that mjiiiimlwi @mmrmiy Q’Miaaémm m with rm. may zmqmt immm ‘mm WM Mmm if W2 mm 121mm} my MW gamma thm whim “W612”
did mm kzrmw mt“ kmt W63‘: hmll mi) mizmii M wwwwm
m "Ww want: 021 aTi/wwz Hymn Mm tiifiti‘i‘ wt?" mh MW WZ'ZMZ‘F, z'mwmii immly
2mm Hm amzak; m rm mmm I? Mair/12:1 @yfi mpim "Wm m gmm’imi whmw
%
W
gins: ‘I Emil zmgzd amt} Whmm If kwzw W M2»; »,}Wjif%i?r[tiy WM: 22% m mm mm,
 
m, 'iHM, 0% “mm WWW mm??? W my Wham?” (y,
I Wall xihzamim it Mmxwmd I mdamzai miiimjy w W m hmm at; rm; Ema WWW“;
hm ‘twhm Wm mm Friday in the: hmm, {by ammimma ammmm mm mm
mm m :2, cimmm, a gm Way my? m Wham, imiiimi, I saw mtmmg
m" him; and lm/3y had mm 1% ifxim gm mhmwx} m wmai hiwif jumpmi 11mm 1km
W WSW mm mmmr m fmmm, but 12% MW away ‘m Mia; fmtmrg 121% m, WWW
4am M m Mama It WWW}; MW mm my mmm mam} lm, Wm» m" m mmazt
mmfzlmiwm m mm: thm tmmgimm M Maia; Wm fégmm jay whem 1mm»: mama
m fziamrz haw m zmhmmd hixim him, mmm hi farm? mm him up
in Mg; 2mm, mt him cimwm Wmn a, ‘Wf, 21% my dmm kw him a; man mm and
Iki‘d him, % any mm WWW 21m; m m, mwmg Zigtklm my a (gamma? m“ an
ham mgmhm; than my dwwz mm m ‘gmmd, magi mmkm Mg mgaa, and kiwmd
mm, and {hm up» maxim, ili mamcl at hm; cam wmai MW thmmgm m
amw Eilifwithdw Hm ‘Wmli have: mam 61mg; Wig?“ m mm't my m mm MW
 
 
Azvczezvr' HA UNTS. 24r
his passion ran out another way: in the morning, he walked along the shore, and
again with his father, several hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had
been a lady ;_ and every now and then he would come to the boat to fetch some-
' thing or other for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit cake, or something
or other that was good.- In the afternoon his frolics ran another way; for ,then
he would set the old man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make
a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this he would‘
be talking to him, and telling him one story or another of his travels, and of
what happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same lial affection
was to be found in Christians to their parents, in our part of the world, one
would be tempted to say there would hardly have been any need of the fth
commandment. _ ‘
But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It would be endless to take
notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards received me with.
The rst Spaniard, whom as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had
saved. He came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a ag of truce
also; and he not only did not know me at rst, but he had no thoughts, no
notion, of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him. “Seignior,” said I,
in Portuguese, “ do you not know me?” At which he ‘spoke not a word, but,
giving his musket to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced
me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know that face again that he had once
seen as if an angel from Heaven, sent to save ‘his life: he saidabundance of
very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then,
beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades.
He then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again, and where I should see they had made but
mean improvements; so I walked along with him; but, alas! I could no more '
nd the place again than if I had never been there; for they had planted so
many trees, and placed them in such ‘a position, so thick and close to one another,
and in ten years’ time they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was in-
accessible, except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only, who
made them, could nd.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortications: he told me I would
say. there was need enough of it, when they had given me an account how they
had passed their time since their arriving in the island, especially after they had
the misfortune to nd that I was gone. He told me he could not but have some
satisfaction in my‘ good fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good ship,
and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that one
time or other he should see me again; but nothing that ever befell him in his
life,-hc said, was so surprising and aiicting to him at rst, as the disappointment
- he was under when he came back to the island and found I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind, and of
16
.whom,.-he said, hehadra ‘long story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought them-
selves much better among the savages, only that their number was so small:
“and,” says he, “had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago in
purgatory;” and with- that he crossed himself on the breast. “But, sir,” says he,
“ I hope you will not be. displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by necessity,
we were obliged, for ourown preservation, to disarm them, and make them our
subjects, as they would not be content with being moderately our masters, but
would be our murderers.” I answered, I was afraid of it when I left them there,
and nothing troubled me at my parting from the island but that they were not
come back, that I might have put them in possession of everything rst, and left
the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved; but if they had reduced
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from nding any fault with
it: for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovernable villains, and were t
for any manner of mischief.
While I was saying this, the man came whom he had sent back, and with him
eleven more. .In the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what nation
they were of ;.but he made all clear both to them and to me. First he turned
to me, and pointing to them, said, “These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who
owe their lives to. you;” and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by one, not as if they
had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and thelike, but really as if they had been
ambassadors or noblemen, and “I a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour
was, to the last degree, obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly,
majestic gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so much
more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their civilities, much less-
how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in’, the island, after my going.
away, is so very remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the former part of
my relation will help to understand, and which will, in most of the particulars,
refer to the account I have already given, that I cannot but commit them, with
great delight, to the reading of those that come after me.
. I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the‘ rst person, which
will put me to the expense of ten thousand “said P5,” and “said he’s,” and “he
told me’s,” and “I told him’s,” and the‘ like; but ‘I shall collect the facts
historically, as near as I can gather them out of my memory, from what they’
related to me, and from what I met with in my conversing with them, and with
the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I must go back to
the circumstances in which I left the island, and in which the persons were of
whom I am to speak. And rst, it is necessary to repeat that I had sent away
Friday’s father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives I had rescued from the
savages) in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought: it, to fetch over the
Spaniard’s companions that he left behind him, in order to save‘them from the
like calamity that he had been in, .and in order to succour them for the present ; and
that, if possible, we might together nd some way for our deliverance afterwards.
 
 
 
 
 
, 4%
4
 
 
“13% Film wet? lt'iitiiliif Miil’l’l‘
a {rst [it are}
T115 SPAMARD‘S TALE. 2a '*
I J
When -I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the least room '
to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty years before—~much
less had I any foreknowledge of what afterwards happened, I mean, of an English
ship coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not be but a very great
surprise to them, when they came back, not only to nd that I was gone, but to
nd three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me,
which would otherwise have been their own.
The rst thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin where I
left off, ‘was of their own part; and I desired the Spaniard would give me a
particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little variety in that part,
for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, having had very calm
weather, and a smooth sea. As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he
said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been
dead some time) : they were, he said, the more surprised to see him because they
knew he was fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they were satised, would
devour him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that'when he told them
the story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying
them away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonishment, he said, was
somewhat like that of Joseph’s brethren, when he told them who he was, and the
‘story of his exaltation in Pharaoh’s court; but when he showed them the arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them fortheir journey or
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just»share of the joy of their
deliverance, and immediately prepared to come away with him. _
Their rst business was to get canoes; and in this they were obliged not to
stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a ‘shing,
or for pleasure. In these they came away the‘ next morning. - It seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had no baggage, neither clothes,
nor provisions, nor anything in the world but what they.had on them, and a few
roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in. all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily for them, I
had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in the other part, and to
get off from the island, leaving three of the most impudent, hardened, ungovern-
able, disagreeable villains behind me, that any man could desire to meet with; to
the poor Spaniards’ great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was that when the Spaniards came ashore,
they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had
ordered them to do; also. they gave them the long paper of directions which I
had left with them, containing the particular methods ‘which I took for managing
every part of my life there; the way I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn ; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every-
thing I did; all this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of whom
understood English well enough) : nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards
with anything else, for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods, and Friday’s
father together, managed all their affairs; but as for the Englishmen, they did
nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when
they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satised with this,'had the others but let them
alone, which, however, they could not nd in their hearts to do long; but, like the
dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they let the
others eat. The differences, nevertheless, were at rst but trivial, and such as are
not worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began with
all the rudeness and -insolence that can be imaginedn-v-without reason, without
provocation, contrary‘ to nature, and, indeed, to common sense; and though, it is
true, the rst’ relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may
call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a
word of it. '
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a defect in
my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down, among the rest, that just
as we were weighing the anchor, to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on
board of our ship, which I was once afraid would have turned to a second mutiny;
nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us all to
his assistance, parted them by force, and, making two of the most refractory fellows
prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as they had been active in the former dis-
orders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words, the second time he threatened to
carry them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and
running away with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had put it into
the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them good words for the present,
till they'should come to some English port, and that then they should be all put
into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and ac-
quainted us with it; upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great
man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell
them' that they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all
they had done for the time past should‘be pardoned. So I went, and after passing
my honour’s word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the wind also
falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who had been laid in irons
had stolen each of them a musket, and some other weapons (what powder or shot .
theyhad we knew not), and. had taken the ship’s pinnace, which was not yet
hauled up, and run away with her to their companions in roguery on shore. As
soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve men and the
mate, and away they went to seek the rogues; but they could neither nd them
her any ef the rest, fer they all tied iete the weede whee the?’ few imm
eemiee he eittfltt'h’, T he iterate wee eeee reeeived, ht ;hlttthitit W Wilhmih m MW”
tieettetyed their hlahtatiehei herheel all their i‘ttlttiheihjtitii. ethhi arid htrhhere, end heft
them he shift witheet it; hut having he he he it ail eiehe, left eeerythihg
m m {mm m and’? bringing. gym Weeeee away, eaete he heard eitheet there.
 
were "titliriht em e eee ’’ t;
These tee thee made their naeeliaer five; hat the ether three eiileiee were are meeh
mere wiehed than they, that after they had heee ewe er three days tegjether, they
“termed; the tee hewmeeeiere eat; hi tieere te shift; the themeeieee, eeeld. have
mmthimg w with eherh; nee eeelti they, the e geeti while, peeeeeeled he give
rheee hey feed; as the the heehierde, they teeth tit’iltil iiiii whim
Wheh the ifigyeteierde eh ehere, the hegeh ‘tie thrwerd:
the heahiehie weeiel haee hereaeded titre three hhigiieh hreeee te haee. eeheh he
time ,mmmyyyymm that, as they said, they might he ell eee family ; hat they
wehhi. eet: hear hi it: ee the the hem ihihthh Heft—5M1 iihf ihiimii‘iiwiii mm wdimg
nothing but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little more to the
west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always landed on the east parts of
the island.
‘Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their
magazines and stores in; and’ the Spaniards having given them some corn for
seed, and some of the peas which I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their
rst crop of corn was on the ground; and though it was but a little bit of land
which they had dug up at rst, having had but a little time, yet it was enough
to relieve them, and nd them with bread and other eatables ; and one of the
fellows being - the cook’s mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup,
puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and the milk, andfsuch little
flesh as they got, furnished'him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving position when the three unnatural
rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to insult them, came and
bullied them, and told them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me,
had given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any right to it; and
that they should build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay
rent for them. - ‘
The two men, thinking they were jesting at rst, asked them to come in and
sit down, and see what ne houses they were that they had built, and to tell
them what rent they demanded; and one of them merrily said, if they were the
ground-landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land, and made im-
provements, they would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease:
and desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three,
_ cursing and raging, told them they should see they were not in jest; and going to
a little place at a distance, where the honest men had made a re to dress their
victuals, ‘he takes a rebrand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on re; and it would have been all burned down in a few minutes, if
one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the re out
with his feet, and that not without some difiiculty too.
The fellow was in such ‘a rage at the honest man’s thrusting him away, that he
returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand, and had not the man avoided
the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they- were both in, ran in after him, and immediately
they came both out with their muskets, and the man that was rst struck at with
the pole knocked the fellow down that began the quarrel, with the stock of his
musket, and that before the other two could come to help him; and then, seeing
the rest come at them, they stood together, and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them, bade them stand off. i
The others had rearms with them too; but one of the two honest men, bolder
than his'comrade, and made desperate by his danger, told them, if they offered to
move hand or foot, they- were dead men, and- boldly commanded them to lay down
* QUARRELS. 247
their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute,
it brought them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man with
them and be gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with
the blow. However, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage,
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone
immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every day
gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of their rogueries,
such as treading dowri their corn ; shooting three young kids and a she-goat, which
_ the- poor‘ men had got to breed up tame for their store; and,~in a word, plaguing
them night and day in this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to ght them all three, the rst time they had a fair oppor-
tunity. In order to do this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they called it
‘(that was my old dwelling), where the three rogues and_the Spaniards all lived
together at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards I should
stand by to see fair play; so they got up in the morning before day, and came to
the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard, that an-
swered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that ‘the day before, two of the Spaniards, having been in the
.woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, “for distinction, I called the
honest men, and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous
usage they had met with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined
their plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to bring-
forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three kids, which was all they had
provided for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards,
did not assist them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came
home at night, and they were all at supper,_ one of them took the freedom to
reprove the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and
asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive fellows;
that they were putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it
had cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as they were
then in.
One of ihe Englishmen returned very briskly, “What had they to do there? '
that they came on shore without leave; and that they should not plant or build
upon the island; it was none of their ground.” “Why,” says the‘ Spaniard, very
calmly, “Seignior Inglese, they must not starve.” The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpauling, “They might starve; they should not plant nor build in
that place.” “But what must they do then, seignior?” said the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, “ Do? they should be servants, and work for them.” “But
how can you expect that of them?” says the Spaniard; “they are not bought
with your money; you have no right to make ‘them servants.”= The Englishman
answered, “The island was theirs; the governor had given ‘it to them, and no man
had anything to do there but themselves 3” and with that, swore'by his Maker
that they wnnld gs and hnrn all their new inns; they shnnld hnild nnns nnnn
their innri. f‘ Why, ssigninr,” says the Spaniard, “ hy' the same rain, we must he
ynnr servants inn.M “shy,” says the isnisi ting, ti and sn ynn shall, tnn, hsfnrn we
have sinner with ynn ,f” mining twn nr threw nsths in the nrniirnr intervals sf his
spnnnh. "ifhs Spaniard nnly smiled at that, and. instis him. we answer. iiinwsvsr, this
little dissnnrss had. heated them; and starting an, nne says tn the ether (I think
 
H Wiliiii ilitiii iihiliW‘ ill? iriiii iiih’i ilh‘il‘Wi‘i M
was he they ssllsti Will Atkins), “Chins, )snh, lst’s gs, and have t’nthnr hrnsh
with them ; ws’ll sistnnlish their ssstls, I’ll warrant ynn ; they snail plant nn nnlnny
in was tinnsininns.M
iipnn this, they went all trnnning away, with, every man a gun, a pistnl, and a
swnrn, anti muttered srnnn insnisnt things nrnnng themselves, sf what: they wnnld
din "tn the Snnnisrsis inn, when npnnrtnnity nfihred; hnt the iinsnisrds, it seems,
did nnt sn pnrfsstly nndnrstsnri them as tn knew all the psrtisnlsrs, nnly that, in
general, they threatened them hard fnr taking the: twn iinglishrnnn’s part.
"Whither they went, nr hnw they hsstnwnti their time that evening, the Spaniards
said; did. nnt lrnnw hut; seems they wnnsinrnti shnnt thn snnntry, part til’
the night, and than, lying" drawn in the pines whinh nssti tn nsll nny hnwnr, they
A KNOCK-DOWN BLOW. 249
were weary and overslept themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to
stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men when they were asleep, and as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set rev to their huts while they were in
them, and either burn them there, or murder them as they came out. As
malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept awake. -
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have said, though
a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it happened, and yery.
luckily for them all, that they were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded
rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, "Atkins, who, it seems, was
the forwardest man, called out to his comrade,“ Ha, Jack, here’s the nest, but the
birds are own.” They mused awhile, to think what should be the occasion of
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested ‘presently that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it; and with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men’s habitation; they did not
set re, indeed, to anything, but they pulled down both their houses, andlpulledl
them so limb from limb that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any
sign on the ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected household
stuff in pieces, and threw everything about in such a manner, that the poor men
afterwards found some of their things a mile off their habitation. When they had
done this, they pulled up all the young trees which the poor men had planted;
pulled up an inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and,
in a word, sackedand plundered everything as completely as a horde of Tartars
would have 'done. .
The two men were, at this juncture, gone to nd them out, and had resolved
to ght them wherever they had been, though they were but two to three; so that,
had they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed among them, for they
were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they themselves
could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another, when the three were -
gone thither, the two were here ; and afterwards, when the two went back to nd
them, the three were come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different
conduct presently. When the three came back-like furious creatures, ushed with
the rage which’ the work they had been about had put them into, they came up
to the Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado;
and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple
of boys at play, takes .hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, eering in his face, says to him, “And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard,
shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your manners.” 'The Spaniard,
who, though a quiet, civil man, was as brave a. man as could be, and, withal, a
strong, well-made man, looked at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon
in. his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and, with one blow of his st, knocked
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, as
insolent as the rst, red his pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he missed his
body, indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them' touched the tip _
of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was
more hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted
all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through with his work, he stooped,
and took the fellow’s musket whom he had knocked down, and was just going to
shoot the man who had red at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other
two, and took their arms from them.
When they were ‘thus disarmed, and found they had made all the Spaniards
their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began to cool, and, giving
the Spaniards better -words, would have had their arms again; ‘but the Spaniards
considering the feud that was between them and the other two Englishmen, and
that it would be the best method that they could take to keep them from killing
one another, told them they would do them no harm; and if they would live
peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them their arms again, while
gtht'iy appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their ‘own countrymen, and
, had even threatened them all to make them their servants. ,
'5
‘ them, but away they went, raging and swearing, like furies of hell.
a’ The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act with reason;
but being refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging like madmen,
threatening what they would do, though they had no re-arms. But the Spaniards,
,despising their threatening, told them they should take care how they offered any
injury to their plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot them as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they fell into their
hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling
i As soon as
they were gone, the. two men came back, in passion and rage enough also, though
of another kind; for having been at their plantation, and nding it all demolished
and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had provocation enough.
They could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell
them theirs; and it was strange enough to nd that three men should thus bully
nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus disarmed
them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have
their remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to nd them out. But the
Spaniards interposed here too; and told them, that as they had disarmed them,
they could not consent that they (the two) should pursue them with re-arms, and
perhaps kill them. “But,” said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, “we
will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for there
is no doubt but they will come to us again, when their passion is over, being not
able to subsist without our assistance. . We promise you to make no peace with
them without having a full satisfaction for you; and, upon this condition, we hope
HU/IIBLE-PJE. 2 5 r
you will promise to use no violence, with them, other than in your own defence.”
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great reluctance;
but the Spaniards protested that they did it only to keep them from bloodshed,
and to make them all easy at last. “For” said they, “we are not so many of
us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity that we should not be
all good friends.” At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the
‘thing, living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation was'~
destroyed.
In about ve days’ time, the three vagrants, tired with wandering, and almost
starved with hunger, having chiey lived on turtles’ eggs all that while, came back
to the grove; and nding my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the ‘governor,
and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek, they came up in a very
.submissive, humble manner, and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so unnaturally to
their countrymen, and so very grossly to them (the Spaniards), that they could not
come to any conclusion without consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but,
however, they would go to them and discourse about it, and they should know
' in half an hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard vput to it; for, it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged they would
send them out some bread in the meantime, which they did, sending at the same
time, a large piece of goat’s esh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily,
for they were hungry enough. .
After half an hour’s consultation, they were called in, and a long debate ensued,
their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their labour, and a design
to murder them; all which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now.
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between them; and as they
had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while-they were naked and
unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows’ two huts,
one to be of the same and the other of larger dimensionsthan they’were before;
to fence their ground again where they had pulled up ‘their fences, plant trees in
the room of those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where they
had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state. as they
found it, ‘as near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the season for the
corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of provisions given
them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these three fellows could never
be persuaded to work---I mean for themselves-mexcept now-and then a little, just
as they pleased; however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they would but
live sociably and friendly together, and study the good of the whole plantation,
they would be content to work for them, and let them walk about and be as
idle as they pleased; and thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or
two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with *
them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went abroad, before
the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome as ever; but,
however, an accident happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all; and they were obliged to lay'by all private resentments, and look to
the preservation of their lives. . I
It happened one night that the Spanish governor, as I call him—that is to
say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved—who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no
means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only
found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men ghting and killing one
another; but he was broad awake, and could not by any means get any sleep; in
short. he lay a great while, but, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise. As they lay, being so many of them, on goat-skins laid thick upon such
couches and pads as they made for themselves, and not in’hamniocks and ship-
beds as I did,'who was but one, so they had little to do, when they were willing
to rise, but to get upon their feet, and perhaps put ona coat, such as it was, and
their pumps, and they were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided
them. .Being thus got up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or
nothing; and, besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so that he could
only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight night, and, hearing no noise, he
returned and laid him down again; but ‘it was all one: he could not sleep, nor
could he compose himself to anything like rest; but his thoughts were to the last
degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and, walking about, going out and coming
in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked who it was that was up. The
governor told him how it had been with him. “Say you so?” says the other
Spaniard; “such things are not to be slighted, I assure you ; there is certainly
some mischief working near us;” and presently he asked him, “Where are the
Englishmen?” “They are all in their huts,” says he, “safe enough.” It seems
the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment, and had made a place
for the three. Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always quartered by
themselves, and‘ could not come at the rest. “Well,” says the Spaniard, “there
is something in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satised our
spirits embodied have a converse with and receive intelligence from the spirits
unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given
for our advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come,” says he, “let us
go and look abroad; and if we nd nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I’ll
tell you ‘a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it.” ~
In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill, where I used to
go; but they being strong, and a good company, not alone, as I was, used none
' of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to go up a
second stage . to the top, but were going round through the ' grove, unconcerned
Mail aawaty, tthaa tlftay wata aatptiaatl with a light aa at” tita, a aaay 15mg
way aft" hath thaat, aad haatiaa; ttaiaaa hf taaammaat / at“ aha at twa, hat at“ a
gtaat aaathat. I‘ t
Ia alt tha aiaaaaatiaa l hatl made at tilt} aaaaaaa laadiaa; aa tam gammy? i, Wm
tay aaaataat aata ta tataaaat thattt taahhtg tha laaat tliamwmy my 3mm My,
iahahitaht tttaaa tha plaaa; whaa hy atty attaaaiaa thay ttama ta httata 3% {MW
{mt it my iiiiyfwmimy {mi with’ mm gm twat Watt: aaaraa aljiaia ta taiaa ah)’ aaaaaat
hf it; fat taa diaaattaarati aaaa aa paaaihla; hat tiitl attat aay that aw
 
“that aaata tta a yaat aaaattaataa. ttttattaat ataaaaa” (a. aat),
taa, aaaapa ta tall atty aaa alaa, aaaapt it waa tl‘ttt thtaa aaaagaa ht hat mat
attaaaatat, aha jtttafyaati iata tha haat; at’ whata, I ataatiaaati, 1 watt aftaitl thay
ahaalti gal hattta aha latiagf atara haha Whathar it ataa tha aaaaaaaaaaa hf tha
aaaapa af thaaa taaa that aa gtaat a httttthat aaata haw tagathat, at whathat ‘that’
aaaaa igaataatiy, and lay aaaitiaat, ah thait aaaat hlaatiy atraati, hpaaiattla aaaht
at, it aaataa, ttatlatataad; iitat, whataaat it waa, it hatl haaa thait haaiaaaa aitlttit
ta hatta tl'iitt‘ttthétiti thataaalaaa, at aat ta hatta aaaa thata alt, tttattrh laaa tat haw
lat tha aaaagfaa ilhtt’' aaaa that thata Wtttfh any itthahitaata ia tha talaaa; at ta hath
fallaa apaa thaat aa afthataally aat a taatt at thaat ahaattt haaa aaaapaa,
whiah aaaltl aaty haaa haaa hy gattiag ht hatwaaa thaat aria t'litait haata: hat
thia ptaaaaaa at’ atiati aaa ataatiag" ta thaat, whiah that at thait ttaaaaillity
far a gtaat tahiia.
mm dwm my amt; taa gaaataat aati tha ataa with him, aatptiaaa
2 54 Roam/soar C 1: am.
.
with this sight, ran back immediately and raised their fellows, giving them an
account of the imminent danger they were all in, and they again as readily took
the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within where they
were, but they must all run out to see how things stood. -
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had opportunity
enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of three res they had made
at a distance from one another; what they were doing they knew not, and what
to do themselves they knew not. For, rst, the enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided into several parties, and
were on shore in several places. ‘
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and, as they ‘found
that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt but, rst
or last, some of them would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some other
place where they would see the token of inhabitants; and they were in great per-
plexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the rst thing they resolved
upon was to dispatch three men away before it was light, two Spaniards and one
Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great valley where the cave was,
and, if need were, to drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen
the savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes, they
resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked them; but'that
could not be obtained, for they were some of them two-miles off from‘ the others;
and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should take, and beating
their brains in considering their present circumstances, they resolved, at last, while
it was still dark, to send the old savage, Friday’s father, out as a spy, to learn,
if possible, something concerning them-mas what they came for, what they intended
to do, and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping himself
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went. _ After he had been gone
an hour or two, he brings word that he had been among them undiscovered; that
he found they were two parties, and of two several nations, who had war with
one another, and had had a great battle in their own country; and that both
sides having had several prisoners taken in the ght, they were, by mere chance,
landed 'all on the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and making
merry; but their coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their
mirth—that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near, that he
believed they would ght againw as soon as daylight began to appear; but- he did
not perceive that they had any notion of anybody being on the island but them-
selves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive,
by the unusual noise they made, that the ‘two little armies were engaged in a
bloody ght. I _ -
Friday’s father used all the arguments he could to persuade our people to lie
close, and not be seen; he told them their safety consisted in it, and that they
had nothing to do but lie still, and the savages would kill one another to their
FIGHT BETWEEN THE SA VASES. 255
hands, and then the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was
impossible to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity was so im-
portunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see the battle;
however, they used some caution, too; they did not go openly, just by their own
dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage,
where they might securely see them manage the ght, and, as they thought, not
be seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall nd
hereafter.
The battle was very erce; and, if I might believe the Englishmen, one of
them said he could perceive that some of- them were men of great bravery, of
invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the ght. The battle, they said,
held two hours before they could guess which party would be beaten; but then
that party which was nearest our people's habitation began‘; to appear weakest, and
after some time more, some of them began to y; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, lest any one of those that ed- should run into the
grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the
place; and that, by consequence, the pursuers would do the like in search of
them. Upon this, they resolved that they would stand armed within the wall, and
whoever came into the, grove, they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill
them, so that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it; they
ordered also that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking themdown
with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of raising an
alarm by the noise.
As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army tied for life, and crossing
the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least knowing whither they went,
but running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men’s great satisfaction, viz.,
that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were gone;
upon this, the Spanish governor, a man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill
the three fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them
to go round, come in behind them, and surprise and take them prisoners; which
was done. 'The' residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off
to sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves
into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed was
‘by way of triumph—and so the ght ended: and the same day, about three o’clock
in the afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. And'thus the Spaniards had
the island again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages
i for several years after.
After- they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and viewing the
‘eld ‘of battle, they found about two-and-thirty men dead on the spot; some were
killed with great long arrows, some of which were found sticking in their bodies;
but most of them were killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of
which they found in the eld of battle, and as many bows, with a great many
arrows. These swords were strange, great unwieldly things, and they must be very
 
 
 
 
 
"i
, ,
ttttfttt that a at I; at thaiia at t that a as kalatl with than hati.
tlftair haatls ntashati ta hiaaas, as as may say, at, "as tall it in Eaglish, that's
htaias haaahfttl attt, aatl l. thait artas aatl 3; as that t is asidaat
thay htht with htatatssihla raga aati fata W ‘l hat aha ta a that at
staaa tlaaal; fat a'ithat thay stay hy thait
 
 
 
 
aw?‘
 
 
h
 
 
 
 
 
 
tittitii
‘E
s
 
 
satay all 'th
that ass hat
with thaat,
This dahastaaaa tataati
tats thigh hataa far a ataat
whilst tha tilhd thtta with hattat, aatl th aattss sat. a tittjttfrtttttttil ttttihia
‘ta tha last paaiatly apart as titasiaa; that saata thaa tit't'tl’ttlf’tttt” shay shaaitil fail
 
 
a tsaanaaa taaa
attita ti away
 
 
Wtaat was saaaatsaa tarts aaataa
a iata; tart asst”
 
 
a
 
 
w
int/a tha haatls at thasa ataatatas, "aha taattltl aat aaly htli thaat anaarias, titat hill
thaat thatl, as as has aattla; aatl thay ptafassatl ta ass that th thaaghts at
haiag aataa a, has as taattaa, thaagh it a as sattasati it "was sat ta his till
thay Watts t ad, had saarathiag is it as hattihla that it aaasaatatt shah tasty stataaaha,
ttiatia thattt stair; whats thay thaaght at it, aatihllatt tlitait atiatls with saah aaasaal
tattat, that tlttay a stat thaatsa‘lsas fat saata ‘as its aftst, ’I”his, a”. saith taatati
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f a}; f aaaa jlaataawat. t 57
awash tha tlwaa httttaa l latta haaa at”; aatl fat gtaat whila
aftat that; ttatztahla, that what ahaat tha attaaa haaiaaaa th whala aaaiaty
wall aaattgh plaatatl, aawatl, ttttttatl, atttl hagaah ta ha all aatttraliaatl ta tha
atatatty. that atwtta aftat" thla thay fall lath attah ahtttala ataaatttaa agaitl, aa
httatght tltaat iata tilaal at” ttaahla
lttttl ptiaattata, l alwattatl; aatl thaaa thtaa haiag laaty,
attatt yahatg; thay thata aatwtttta, atttl tattght thata ta fat thata;
arttl alatwa that}; tiltil wall. aaaagh; hat tlitl hat talta thaw tiaaaaataa with
 
‘‘ tatttawa Jtltt't‘” ttll'ttltt’t”; aw attaatt ( aaal'
thaat aa l tlitt thy taaa li‘titlay, "tia, ta hagtla with thata tttlatt lllllllilltlll ‘ill’
haaiag aaaatl thait litaa, aatl thaa taattttat thaat ht that tatiaaal tatiaaiplaa at" lifa,
taaah at talitgztittttwmaittthattag atltl tatlaaiag thattt lay ltl'atl ttaaga atttl affaatiattata
atttaatattta; hat thaat thait ‘fatal, tlay, aa thay gaaa thaat thalt
watlt ttaa, aatl thaat tally aatpiayad itt tlttttlgaty ahaatth; hat thay failttl
la thla lay it, that thay aatwt thattt ta aaaiat thaat aatl fat thattt
l1 litatl my taaa llritlay, wha waa aa tttta ta taa aa tha aaty haah apaa thy
hattaa
lilat ta aattta ta tht: fatally hath all haw gaatl ftiaatla, fat aaattttaa
tlaaggat, l, aliaatw, hatl atlaatttally ta twwilttd 7, lillttli m William
thait aatl tha thiatt that aataa aat aaaalaatatlaa watt
l”?
whether, seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the'island, and that
there were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of
living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather move their habi- .
ration, and plant in some more proper place for their safety, and especially for
the security of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not remove their
habitation; because that, some time-or other, they thought they might hear from
their governor again, meaning me; and if I should send anyone to ‘seek them, I
should be sure to direct them to that side, where, if they should nd the place
demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone,
and so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the valley where my ,cave was, where the land was as proper
for both, and where, indeed, there was land enough‘; however, upon second thoughts,
' they altered one part of their resolution too,‘ and resolved only to remove part of
their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part was
destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence they used, which
it was very well they did, that they never trusted those three savages, which they
had taken prisoners, with knowing anything of the plantation they had made in
that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the
. two barrels of powder, which I had sent them at my coming away. But, how-
ever, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they agreed, that as I had
carefully covered it rst with a wall or fortication, and then with a grove of trees,
so seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed,’ of which they
were now fully convinced, they set'to work to cover and conceal the place yet
more effectually than before. For this purpose, as I planted trees, or rather thrust
in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good distance before
the entrance into my apartments, they went on in the same manner, and lled up
the-rest of that whole space of ground from‘ the trees I had set quite down to
the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and even into the very
ooze where the tide owed, not so much as leaving any place to land, or any
sign that there had been any landing thereabouts: these stakes also being of a
wood very forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to have them
‘generally much larger and taller than those which I had planted; and as they
grew apace, so they planted them so very thick and close together, that when they
‘had been three or. four years grown, there was no "piercing with the eye any
‘considerable way into the plantation; and as for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man’s thigh, and among them they placed so many
other short ones, and so thick, that,‘ in a word, it stood like a palisado a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little
army to cut it all down—for a little dog could hardly get between the trees, they
stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to'the right
hand and to the left, and round even to the side of the hill, leaving no way, not
A NOTHE]? 312011.. " 2 59
so much as for themselves, to come out but by the ladder placed up to the side
of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from the rst stage up to the I
top; and when the ladder was taken down, nothing but what had wings or witch-
craft to assist it could come at them. This was excellently well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards found occasion for, which served to convince
me, that as human prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it, so it
has doubtless the direction of Providence to set it to work; and if we listened
carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters
which our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to.
I return to ,the story. They lived two years after this in perfect retirement,
and had no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed, an alarm given them
one morning, which put them‘into a great consternation; fdr, some of the Spaniards
being out early one morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which
was that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they were sur-
prised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore. They
made the best of their way home in hurry enough; and, giving the alarm to their
comrades, they kept close all that day and the next, going out only at night to
make their observation; but they had the good luck to be mistaken, for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but pursued some
other design. - '
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one of whom, a
most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three slaves, whom I mentioned
they had taken, because the fellow had not done something right which he ‘bid
him do, and seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out
of a frog-belt, in which he‘ wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing
him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's
arm off, ran to him, and ~entreating him not to murder the poor man, placed
himself between him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow, being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore‘ he
would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard per-
ceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his hand (for they
were all working in the eld about their corn land) knocked the brute down.
Another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help his comrade,
knocked the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They‘had none of them
any ,re-arms or any other 'weapons but hatchets and other tools, except
this third Englishman; he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with which he made at
the two last Spaniards, and wounded them‘ both. This fray set the whole family
in an uproar, and, more help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners.
The next question was, what should be done ‘with them? They had been so often.
'mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew
not what course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and cared not what hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was ,
not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that if they-
had been of his own country, he would have hanged them; for all laws and all
governors were to preserve society, and those who were dangerous to the society
ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to
the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to
the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it might
not be left to them—“ For,” says he, “I' am sure we ought to sentence them to
the gallows ;” and with that he gives an account,how Will Atkins, one of the
three, had proposedto have all the ve Englishmen join together, and murder all
the Spaniards when they were .in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins, “ How, Seignior
‘Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you to say to that?” The hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and swore they would
do it still before they had done with them. “Well, but Seignior Atkins,” says
the Spaniard, “what have we done to you that you will kill us? And what
would you get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent your killing 'us?
Must we kill you, or you will kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of
this, Seignior Atkins?” says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins
was in such a rage at the Spaniard’s making a jest of it‘, that, had he not been
held by three men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was thought that he
would have attempted to kill the Spaniard in the middle of all the company. This
hair-brain carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be done; the
two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion
that they should hang one of the three, for an example to the rest, and that
particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with’ his
hatchet; and indeed, there was some reason to believe that he had done it, for
the poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he had received,
that it was thought he could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no;
it was an Englishman that had saved ‘all their lives, and he“ would never consent
to put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half of them; nay, he
said, if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak.
it should be that they should pardon him. '
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there was no
gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, where they are
so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was to be considered
what should be done to keep them from doing the mischief they designed; for all
agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used for preserving the society
from danger. After a long debate, it was agreed, rst, that they should be
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot, sword, or any ~
weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and left to live where they would,
g;
Pu“;
gm ($0 iamjmg all‘ fimW;
Md hww may mmM, by wss'imwmg ¥mii mm rmm mi“ Wm méat ithw pzmfzimw m
I‘Zwi, Mxmld mmvm: with ‘Zlh?l“l% fjmak Wzlh. iwzm E'zziwg’: anything My aim "WWW,
thmz lm t‘hw mmm m fcixxfiijid “lm {WWW Wmm :1 mmzixm dimmm M Mm 51mm
Wh rm WM and ‘f may mfwm m aizmwmit my (mmim, m m mimi’k
bum, WE}, m“ ifrmwy m1}? M h WWW? Wmmiimgm “ifmimimgw, {mm mi“ mmhz: mugging m m gféimiffz Mm}? Mmmhji mm mthmt mummy? and MW WWW mimm mam
Wmmvm may Qmid mm mam.
Tm gwwmn 21 mm mi,‘ hmmmiifyg mammgg; Wm th: wmmmm wmicihzzmd
 
 
Iwww 2mvmaw' wiéymmw Wm AMI? @mmma { 1m wgg)”
El iimm WWW mci mrzmizfzggg; m m Wm Emméizg Kwgkéfghmwy M Wm,
mum? mmzt mm; mm m 26mg; mff Km}? mm mm mm"; and maa; a}? mzfézr mwm
Md £16m}; mmt mm WWW; Wm mum mmm: MMW mmw £55543? hi3
mmmd w m mm? mm; Hwy %f%d MW? 222, 1jwmzwrtmm M KTTQITWH t'mm m
mm‘? mrm mmmm, and; {my WM m WW? 11:93; WM mum": my might 1% WW
gmmii m rmw Wfrm mi mm mm; mm lmy Mwmd MW mi} m
$1151 @1124; mm ,ggg‘iwm imam? m WM {m wwmizvm mmmmm 221% my a, mwm;
mm that may mm mm Eiml givmz imam ‘my mix Wm M m
 
 
"WWQTi/m, mm
7% m: himizmihw m, mm, a; 5am“, and Mm Mm; Wit mmm mam mi?
‘Ki/"WW mm m pmvvimm mmlw Wmléi. Wmr WWW/11y mm Hwy“ Wmzld
i .
not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their feilOW
Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift for them--
selves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither content to go away, nor
to stay; but, as there was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a
place where they would settle themselves; and some provisions were given them,
but no weapons. .
About four or ve days after, they came again for some victuals, and gave the
governor an account where they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves
out a habitation and plantation, and it was a very convenient place indeed, on
the remotest part of the island, N.E., much about the place where I providentially
landed in my rst voyage, when Iwas driven out to sea, the Lord knows whither,
‘ in my foolish attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a manner
like my rst habitation, being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already on three sides of it, so that by planting others it would be very
'easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desired some
dried goat-skins, for beds and covering, which were given them; and upon giving’
their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations,
they gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could spare; some peas, barley,
and rice, for sowing, and, in a word, anything they wanted, except arms and‘
ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got in their
rst harvest, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of land they had planted
being but little; for, indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a great
deal of work upon their hands; and when they Came to make boards and pots,
and such things, they were quite out of- their element, and could make nothing
of it; and when the rainy season came on, for want 'of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling; and this
humbled them much: so they came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which
they very readily did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but
it was a poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as mine was then,
for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation,‘ a new frolic took these.
rogues, which, together 'with the former‘ villany they had committed, brought
mischief enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
The three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they
led, and that without hope of bettering their circumstances: and a whim took
them that they would make a voyage to the continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could seize upon some prisoners among the natives
there, and bring them home, so as to make them do the laborious part of the
work for them. ' '
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no farther. \ But they
a:
THE KEvDzvEss OF THE SPA NIA was. 26 3
did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the design or
mischief in the event. And if I may give my opinion, they seemed to be under
a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue visible
crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the Divine justice? It
was certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the least remorse
for the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as the piece of monstrous cruelty
of wounding a poor slave because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to
do what he was directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made him a-
cripple all his life, and in a'place where, no surgeon‘ or medicine could be ‘had
for his cure; and, what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do justice
to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterwards
the formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in
their sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story. The three fellows came down
to the Spaniards one morning, and in ‘very humlile terms desired to be admitted
to speak with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which
was this :--That they were tired of living in the manner they did, and that they
‘ were not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and that having no
help, they found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards would give them
leave to take one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition proportioned to their defence, they ‘would go over to the main
' and seek ‘their fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them
with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very honestly repre-
sented to them the certain destruction they were running into; told them they
had suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they could, without any
spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or murdered, and bade them
consider of it.
The men replied, audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for
they could not work, and would not work, and they could but be starved abroad;
and if they were murdered, there was an end of them; and, in short, insisted
importunately upon their demand, declaring they would go, whether they gave them
any arms or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were resolved to
go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no condition to defend them-
selves; and that, though they could ill spare their rearms, having not enough
for themselves, yet they would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass,
and each man a hatchet, which they thought was sufcient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked bread enough to .serve them a month,
and given them as much goats’ esh as they 'could eat while it was sweet, and a
great basket of dried grapes, a pot of fresh water, and a ‘young kid alive, they
boldly set out in the canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it wasat least forty
miles broad.
aha , aaaassst
Tits hast, iatissa, was a iargs has, and whats tsty wsii sattiasl iiftssa at
twsaty rash, aati, thssitws was rathst tss hig tat thsat ta ataaags; hat: thsy
hati this hit iitlttttiwtititt with thattt, thsy tiiti wsli saaagh. i'iiihsy has triads
at a laag pats, and a saii sf that largs gsahshias titisti, wiitish thsy hati
sswsti at iassti ;; aati away thsy wsat tasttiiy saaagh. iiihs httattiartis saiisti
aftst thsat, i‘ ’” anti as start thattght hi thsat any stats.
iii‘hs iittaaiartis sitsa saying is has aasthsr, ash is tws haasst
iiaaiishatsa wits ttattaiasti hshiati, haw ttttistiy aati sstaisrtahly thsy lissti, haw
 
 
“ this a was ssattats “"tttwaatis that.
thsss thtss tatlftalsat fsilaws wars as thsir stratiag that: was ths
tstaatsst thing {that thsir thattgfhts that sattlti ha itaagittsti; whsa, itshaiti, sitar
twaatativtwsaty‘ days’ sass, has at ths iiiagiishtwaa, i'isiag ahtaati stairs piaatiag
Wttth, ,1 thtss sttaags grins apart
thsit shttaitista
away tarts ths iiaglishawta, if its was hswitsiftsti, sarass itijgthtsasti aati ataaaad
ta ths gaastaat hpaaiatti, aati hiatt wars ail ttatiaas, fat thsts wars
straagsrs strata ths isiaati, tart assist aat tall wha thsy wars. This iipaaiatti, titaasiag
a whiis, ta hits, it aw sis yaw atsayaa saanat tail with it ths
its stars.” i" as,” ths “ tats rash is siathss,
with. twata.M i‘ iay, thaw,” says tha iipaaiarti, “ why yaw sa statsstnstii’ ii
thsy hat sasagss, thsy artist ha itisatis, iht thars as Christiah aatiatt spas
aatth hat wiii as gaati tathst thaw hatta.”
 
 
rash starting tawattis hits at a tiistaasa, with
 
 
 
 
A C (/1810 US EXCHANGE. 26 5
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and, standing
without the wood, which was new planted, .hallooed to them. They presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder ceased. But now the admiration was turned
upon another question :--What could be the matter, and what made them come
back again? .
It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where they had
been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a full account of their
voyage in a few words :—that they reached the land in two days, or something
less; but nding the people alarmed at their coming, and prepared with bows
and arrows to ght them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the north-
ward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which they perceived
that the land they saw from our island was not the main but an island. Upon
entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island, on the right hand, north,
and several more west; and being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore; that they found the
people very courteous and friendly to them; and that they gave several roots and
some dried sh, and appeared very sociable; and the women, as well as the men,
were very forward to supply them with anything they could get for them to eat,
and brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as well as they could of them,
by signs, what nations were this way and that way, and were told of several erce
and terrible people that lived almost every way, who, as they made known by
signs to them, used to eat men: but as for themselves, they said, they never ate
men or women, except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
- The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that kind; and they
told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon and to two ngers; and
that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his
war, and they were feeding them to make them fat for the next feast. The
Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others
mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away
for their own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting ‘of the
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next morning at sun-
rising they would bring some for them; and, accordingly, the next morning they
brought down ve women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to
carry away with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and
oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their stomachs turned
at this sight, and they did not know'what to do. To refuse the prisoners would
have been the highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered them;
and what to do with them they knew not. However, after some debate they
resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets;
which, though they did not understand their use, they seemed particularly pleased
with; and then tying the poor creatures’ hands behind them, they dragged the
prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, or
else they-that gave them this noble present would certainly have expected that
they should have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of them the
next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the donors to dinner. But having taken
their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between people,
where, on either side, they understood not one word they could say, they put off
with their boat, and came back towards the rst island; where, when they arrived,
they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them for their
occasion. '
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with their
prisoners; but it was impossible to make them understand anything. Nothing they,
could say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going
to murder them. They rst of all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed
at that, especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their throats;
for they immediately concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If
they gave them anything to eat, it was the same thing; they then concluded it was
for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was
to see whether he or she was fattest, and ttest to kill rst; nay, after they
had brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them
well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper for their new
masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history or journal of
their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new family was; and being
told that they had brought them on shore, and put them into one of their huts,
and were come up to beg some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and -the
other two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down to
the place and see them; and did so, and Friday’s father with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat, all bound; for when they had
brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that they might not take the boat
and make their escape; there, I say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First,
there were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well~shaped, straight and fair limbs,
about thirty to thirty-ve years of age; and ve women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more not above four or ve and twenty; and the fth,
a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women were well-favoured,
agreeable persons, both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of them, had
they been perfectly white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in
London itself, having pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest be- -
haviour; especially when they came afterwards to be clothed and dressed, as they
called it, though that dress was very indifferent, it must be confessed.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards, who
were, to give them a just character, men of the best behaviour, of the most calm,
sedate tempers, and perfect good humour, that ever I met with; and, 1n particular,
of the most modesty; I say, the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men
andtve naked women, all together bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
* "thati'human nature could be supposed to be, viz., to be expecting every moment
‘to be dragged out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up
I
like a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The rst thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday’s father, to go in,
and see, rst, if he knew any of them, and then,if he understood any of their
speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them, but knew
none of them; neither could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign
he could make, except one of the ,women. However, this was enough to answer
the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose bands they were
fallen were Christians ; that they abhorred eating men or women; and that they
might be sure they would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this,
they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways; as is hard
to describe; for it seems they were of several nations.
The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place, to ask them
if they were willing to be‘servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away, to saveltheir lives; at which they all fell a dancing; and presently
one fell to taking up this, and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on
their shoulders, to intimate they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women among them would presently
be attended with some inconvenience, and might occasionasome strife, and perhaps
blood, asked the three men what they intended to do with these women, and how
they’ intended to use them, whether as servants or as wives? One of the English-
men answered, very boldly and readily, that they would use them as both; to
which the governor said, “I am not going to restrain you from it—you are your
own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and
quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for thatreason only, viz. :—-That you
will all engage, that if any of you take any of these women as a wife, that he
shall take but one; and that, having taken one, none else shall touch her; for
though we cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while you
stay here, the woman any of you takes shall be maintained by the man that takes
her, and should be his wife—I mean,” says he, “while he continues here, and that
none else shall have anything to do with her.” All this appeared so just, that
every one agreed to it without any diiculty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if theydesigned to take any of them.
But every one of them answered “No.” Some of them, said they had wives in
Spain, and the others did not like women that were not Christians; and all
together declared that they would not touch one of them, which was an instance
of such virtue as I have not met with in all my travels. On the other hand, to
be” short, the ve Englishmen took them every one a wife—that is to say, a
temporary wife; and so they set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and
Friday’s father‘ lived in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly
MARMA GE ‘OF THE Ell’GLISHMEN. 267‘12;
within. The three servants which were taken in the last battle of the savages
lived with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all
the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or as they found
necessity required. '
But the wonder of the story was, how ve such refractory, ill-matched fellows
should agree about these women, and that two of them should not choose the
same woman, especially seeing two or three of them were, without comparison,
more agreeable than the others; but they took a good way enough to prevent
quarrelling among themselves, for they set the ve women by themselves in one of
their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew lots among them who
should choose rst. .' '
He that drew to choose rst went away by himself to the but where the poor
naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose; and it was worth observing,
that he that chose rst took her that was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of
the ve, which made mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards
laughed at it; but the fellow considered better than any of them, that it was ap-
plication and business they were to expect assistance in, as much as in anything
else; and she proved the best wife of all the parcel. ’
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched out one
by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them again, and they rmly
believed they were now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the English
sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable
cry, and hung about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and
affection as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible‘
for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be immediately murdered,
till they fetched the old man, Friday’s father, who immediately let them know
that the ve men, who were to fetch them‘out one by one, had chosen them for
their wives.
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a little over, the
men went to work, and the Spaniards came and helped them; and in a few hours
they had built them every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those
they had already were crowded with their tools, household stuffs, and provisions.
The three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer,
but both on the north shore of the island, so that they continued separated as
before; and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as I might say, ,three
towns were begun to be built.
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often happens in the world
(what the wise ends of God’s providence are, in such a disposition of things, I
cannot say), the two honest fellows had ~the two worst wives; and the three re-
probates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were t for nothing, and neither
seemed born to do themselves good nor any ‘one else, had three clever,
diligent, careful, ‘and ingenious wives; not that the rst two were bad wives,
as to their temper or humour, for all the ve were most willing, quiet, passive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning is,
are/"a a if. e f aha
they were hat eapahle, ihgeaieaa, ht htdaattieee, ht ahhe eleahly aha
heat.
hhethet a‘; etvatiea hthat taahe, ta "he heateht hf thti at htieatieh eh
ehe hahtil, aha te thegjtaee at a'ieththl, he terahet tittt ethet,
that whee t1 eathe th the that , ahti eieaet the aevetal tth'tittttttttth, ptahtihga,
ahtl tttht‘t‘m eat at“ the ‘littte Withhttitth, the the he had eefat eatgeae
the thtee. that theta he eethhatieea. hatt, ihtlieed, hath hf theth ae raaeh
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tttthZW aeee ahttlfh“ aha t aett}.
‘t. .
greeted laht eat the hate aa they wahtetl, ahd. the teaaeh waa, heeattae, aeeetdihg
te thy eale, hatate thetatett that it wee te he phtheee te aew theta hate thah
 
 
aati, at ewetythhtg wee eaay ta he at heat eieaa
the tt‘ttttt that iaaataetahte yeahg tteea hlahted alfteht theit hate, ea that,
whee yea eatae ta the hiaee teething te he hat weed; he theagh
they hatt heel their“ hlaetatilea tleatehahetl, ehee hy theta aha eeahttyatea,
eatl eaee he the eaethy, ehall he aihheh ht plaee, they hatl teateteti at
agate, aatgt eeetythtag thtieihg aati heatiehthg aheat theta; they had gtahee
piahteti ht eta J”, aati thahagetl tihe a eiaeyarti, thhegth they heel tirtethaeleea het'et
eeea ahythiag at that hihtil; aha, hy the/h afeeti erttethtg theh eieea, theit gtapea
t’
were as good again as any of the others. They had also found themselves out
a retreat in the thickest part of the woods, where though there was not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and
where, when the mischief which followed happened, they secured their wives and
children so as they could never be found: they having, by sticking innumerable
stakes and poles of wood which, as I said, grew so readily, made the grove, im-
passable, except in some places, where they climbed up to get over the outside
part, and then went on by ways of their own leaving. '
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were much
civilised by their settlement compared to what they were before, and were not so
quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of the certain companions
of a proigate mind never left them, and that was their-idleness. It is true, they
planted corn, and made fences; but Solomon’s words were never better veried
than in them—“I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown
with thorns ;” for when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not see
it in some places for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild
goats had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead bush
was crammed in, to stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the
stable door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when theydooked on the colony
of the other two, there was the very face of industry and success upon all they
did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their
hedges; and they, on the other hand, veried Solomon’s words ‘in another place,
that “the diligent hand maketh rich;” for everything grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle than the others.
more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure and diver-
sion too. ',
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly'within doors;
and having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking from one'of the
other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook’s mate .on board the ship, they
dressed their husband’s victuals very‘ nicely and well; whereas the others could
not be brought to understand it; but then the husband, who, as I say, had been
cook’s mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three wives, they
loitered about, fetched turtles’ eggs, and caught sh and birds; in a word, anything
but labour; and they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably,
and the slothful hard and beggarly ; .and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all
over the ‘world. ‘
But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened before, either
to them or to me; and the origin of the story was this :----Early one morning, there
came on shore ve or six canoes of Indians. or savages—call them which ‘you
please—and there is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and’ to our
men too, that they did not concern themselves about it as I did: but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their only business was to lie con-
cealed, and that if they were not seen by any of the savages they would go off
I
A DISCO VERY. 2y 1
again quietly, when their business was done, having, as yet, not the least notion
of there being any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been 'made sensible
of this, they had nothing to do but give notice to all the three plantations to keep
within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in ‘a proper place, to
give notice when the boats went to sea again. This was, without doubt, very
right; but a disaster spoiled all these measures, and made it known among the
savages that there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again; and some of them had the curiosity to go ‘to
the place where they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their
great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon
the ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorged with their inhuman
feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep when the others went, or they had
wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time 'to be taken in,
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a loss what
to do. The Spanish governor, as ‘it happened, was with them, and his advice was
asked, but he professed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough
already; and as to killing them, there were none of them inclined to do that: the
Spaniard governor told me, they could not think ,of shedding innocent blood; for
as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of their
property, and they thought they had no just quarrel against them to take away
their lives. And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let the
accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met
with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were
so universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and so courteous,
as these Spaniards: and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature:
no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions; and yet all of them men of
great courage and spirit. Their temper and calmness had appeared in their hearing
the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity'
appeared now in the case of the savages, as above. After some consultation, they
resolved upon this: that they would lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these
three men might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected that the
three savages had no boat; and if- they were left toroam about the island, they
would certainly discover that there weie inhabitants in it; and so they should be
undone that way. Upon this, they went'back again, and there lay the fellows fast
asleep still, so they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they
did so. The poor fellows were strangely frightened when they were seized upon
and bound; and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and
eaten: for it seems, those people think all the world do, as they do, eating
, men’s esh ; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away they carried
them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to their castle
---.~I mean, to my palace under the hill; but they carried ‘them rst to the bower,
where was the chief of their country work, such as keeping the goats, the planting
 
 
the eerrr, eerl efrerwerrle errrrierl r'i‘rere
rie rhe helriretierr eff" rrrrir fl?“ rghelir
rh eet tie erlr, iil‘fhlfrh. it; wee
her rrreeh rh heel fer rl'rere re rile erel elireelfrer
 
 
 
 
a‘
Q
m
rhey rhrire the iellerre rizeerlrl rrer reeeril there»
eelee lreerr rr er, her rm er rherrr ree eeey,
aerl, rehiee re rhe rreerle, rhey eeelrl eerer hear
ef hire err mere.
'"lf‘hey heel geerl reeerer re heliere
herrre egeirr ee err ether hr
eeree er erreeee ef elre eerrre err ehere er ther
e’llrereerele, eerl ehe, eerryieg
err rir reee e eeeel, weer eff hr
rrre "l‘hie rheejeht rerritieei
there iegrly : fer they eerrelerlieel,
1w
 
 
errrii tiirer her; erh'heer he
rher if the fellerr eeree heme
errre hie r; erreri he weeld
 
 
were rreeple re rhe
iehrrrel, eeri lfree
fee" errrfl rl‘rey
were ; fer the eheereerl liefere,
herl rrerrer heee rehil,
eerl 'ir wee rery herirey
l‘reril. her, hew
 
 
,meew
merry there were, er Wreeee twee rerer eerreee { 9.73:).
where three; 6
her heel. erer
er heerd the ef erry elf rheir ghee, reee heel they eheerr hire erry
er” their erher eeeh eere hr rhe er eerr rerreee
wlrieh tee lilerirree ere I eerl rhe
rlc‘rey heel that g‘ieee rerelligeeee ef rherrr
 
 
 
 
it; eee hy irr rhere, re elret
B URNING OF, ‘THE H0219. 2 7 3
was, that about two months after this, sixcanoes of savages, with about seven,
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island,
where they never used- to come before, and landed, about an hour ‘after sun-rise,
at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation of the twowEnglishmen,
where thisescaped man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they
been all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of them
would have escaped; but the casedi'ered now, very much, for two men to fty...
was' too much odds. The two men had the happiness to discover them about a
league off, so that it was above an hour before they landed; and as they landed
a, mile from their huts, it was some time before. they could come at them. Now,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing theyidid
was to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three ‘men whom '
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them) ,to lead
them, with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, into
their retired places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to bind
the‘ two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further. ’
‘In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and that they had.
bent their course directly that way, they opened the fences where the milchqcows
were keptyand drove them all out; leaving their goats ,to 'straggle in the woods
‘whither they pleased, that the savages, might think they were all bred. wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too ‘cunning for that, and gave .them an.
account of it all, for they went "directly to the place. , _
When the two ‘poor frightened men had secured their wives and goods, they
sent the other slave they had of the three who came with .the women, and who
was at their place by accident, away to, the Spaniards with all speed, togive them
the: alarm, and desire speedy help, and, in the meantime, they took ‘their arms,
_and what ammunition they had,-and retreated towards the place ;in the wood
where their wives were sent; keeping ata distance, yet so that‘ they might see,
if possible, which way the savages took. _ _ ‘
.211. They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see the little
army ‘of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, in a moment
more, could see all their huts and household stuff aming up together, to- their
great grief and mortication; for, they had a very‘ great loss, to them irretrievable,
at. least for some time. They kept their‘ station for a while, till they. found the
savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves‘ all over the place, rummaging, every
svay, .and every place .they could think.0f,' in Search of Prey 5.11mi in. Pariigelfr; {of
the people, of whom, now .it -plainlyrappeared they had intelligence. _ _, ,L. .1’
The: two Englishmen seeing,..this,_thinking themselves ‘not secure ,where, ‘they
stood, because it was likely .somleaof the wild people might come thatway, and
they" might come too many together, -.thought it, proper to make another retreat
about half a mile. farther;:‘believing;_.,as~--.it afterwarde happened, that the farther
they strolled, the fewer would be together. ' , __. W1. h.
an; Theii next. haltiwas cat the entrahce.-into.'a.vefy .thiCk*gI‘0\\’.I} .P3i1't'9f;.the_l"0_0d5,
.iandZwhere' an. old :tr’unk ‘of arttét stood, which -_was hollowenciyastly large‘; and
18‘ ' ‘
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to see there what might offer.
They had not stood there long before two of the savages appeared running directly
that way, as if they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up to‘
attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more coming after them,
and ve more beyond them, all coming the same way; besides which, they saw
seven or eight more at a distance, running'another way; for, in a word, they ran
every way, like sportsmen beating for their game. '
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether ‘they should stand and
keep their posture, or y; but, after a very short debate ‘with themselves, they
considered, that if the savages ranged the country thus before help came, they
might perhaps nd out their retreat in the woods, and then all would be lost; so
they resolved to stand them there, and if they were too many to deal with, then
they would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not to
defend themselves, re excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though ‘all
the savages that were landed, which was near fty, were to attack them.
Having resolved-upon this, they next considered whether they should re at the
rst two, or wait for the three, and so take the ‘middle party, by which the‘ two
and the ve that followed would be separated; at length they resolved to let the
rst two pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack
them. The rst two savages conrmed them also in this resolutitin, by turning a
little from them towards another part of the wood; but the three, and the ve,
after them, came forward directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen
were there. Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take
them in a line as they came; and as they resolved to re but one at a time,
perhaps the rst shot might hit them all three; for which purpose the man who
was 'to re put three or four small bullets into his piece; and having a fair loop~
hole, as it were, fr'om a broken hole in the. tree, he took a sure aim, without
being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he
could not miss. -
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly saw that
one of the three was the runaway savage that, had escaped from them; and they
both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not escape,
though they should both re: so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he
did not drop at the rst shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the rst
was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the savages kept near one
another, a’ little behind in a line, he red, and hit two of them directly: the
foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the second, ‘which was the
runaway Indian, was shot through the body and fell, but was not quite dead;
and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball
that went through the body of the second; ‘and being dreadfully frightened, though
not so much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and. yelling in a hideous
manner. . - .
The ve that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible of the
danger, stood still at rst; for the woods made the sound a thousand times bigger
A WRONG STEP. 275
than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls
rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort making a different ‘noise, according
to their kind; just as it waswhen I red the rst gun that perhaps was ever shot
off in the island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the matter was,
came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where their companions lay in
a condition miserable enough: and here the poor ignorant creatures, not “sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood altogether over the wounded ‘
man, talking, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt:
and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a ash of re rst, and
immediately after that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and-wounded
him: this, I say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that, as they saw
no man near them, so they‘ had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor so) much
as heard of a gun; neither knew they anything ‘of killing and wounding at a
distance with re and bullets: if they had, one might reasonably believe they
would not have stood so unconcerned ' to view the fate of their fellows, without
some apprehensions of their own. I A
Our two ‘men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to be obliged
‘to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time, had no notion of their
dang'er; yet, having them all thus in their power, and the rst having to load his
piece. again, resolved to let fly both together among them; and singling out, by
agreement, which to aim at, they shot together,-and killed, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fth, frightened even to death, though not hurt, fell with the
rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had killed them
i all.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made our. two men come boldly
out from the tree before they had charged their guns, which was a wrong step;
and'they were under some surprise when they came to the place, and found no
less than four of them alive, and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all:
this obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets ; and rst
theylmade sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of alltthe mis-l
chief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put them out of their pain;
then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled down to‘ them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moans to them, by gestures and signs, for
his life, but could not say one word to them that they could understand. How-
ever, they made signs to him to' sit down at the foot of a tree hard by; and one
of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine, which" he had by great chance in
n his pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there they left him; and with what
speed they could made after the other two, which were gone before, fearing they,
or any of them, should nd their way to the covered place in the woods, where
their wives and the few goods they had left lay. They bame once in sight of the
two men, but it was at a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to see
them cross» over a valley towards the sea, quite the contrary way from that which
led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and being satised with that, they
Q
went back to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was
‘delivered by his comrades, for he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with
which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not ‘knowing. what course to
take,‘ or how near the enemy might be, or in what number; so they resolved to
go away to the place where their wives were, to‘ see if all was well there, and to
make them easy, who were in fright enough to be sure; for though the savages
were their own countrymen, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and per-
haps the more for the knowledge they had of them.
When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood, and very
near that place, but had not found it; for it was indeed inaccessible, from the
trees standing so thick, unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those
that knew it, which these were not; they found, therefore, everything very safe,
only the women in a‘ terrible fright. While they were here, they had the comfort
to have seven‘ of the Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten, with their
servants, and old Friday (I mean Friday’s father), were gone in a body to defend
their bower, and the corn and cattle that were kept there, in ‘case the savages
should have roved'over to that side of the country; but they did not spread so
far. With the seven Spaniards came one-of the three savages, who, as I said,
were ‘their prisoners formerly; and with them also came 'the savage whom the
Englishman had left bound hand'and foot at the tree; for it seems they came
that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and
brought him along with them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him
again, as they had done the two others-who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them; and they were so afraid of
their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them all, believing they were
‘under an absolute necessity to do so for their own preservation. However, the
‘Spaniard governor would not consent to it, but ordered, for the present, that they
‘should ‘he sent out of the way, to‘ my old cave in the valley, and be kept there,
‘with two Spaniards ‘to guard them, and give- them food for their subsistence, which
“was done; and they were bound there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged, that they‘
could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but taking ve of the I
‘Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol among them, and two
stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages. And rst they came
’-'to‘thertree where the men lay that had been killed; I but it was easy to see that
fsome more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted to carry their ,
ideatl 'me'nlaway,-and-"-had dragged two of them a good way, but had ‘given it over.
From‘ thence ‘they advanced'to the rst rising ground, where they had‘ stood and
‘seen? their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortication still to see some
-‘-of ‘the smoke; but neither could they here s'ee'any of the savages. They then
‘resolved, though with all possible caution, to go'for‘ward towards their ruined plan-
ita'tion ; but, a little before they came-thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
‘saw plainly-the-savages all embarking again’. in their canoes, in order to be gone.
 
,,a_,,,. ,
 
 
"They aeemea harry, at h llihlliflh ltlmt j; hat, apart
theta.
Tm limit’ lgllhlltllmm helhg haw twlee taihetl, aetl all their hepteeeateeta
tleatteyed, the teat all agreed he eehte aal help them he gym/MM)? and Mwg wm
with aeedfal aappllea “their thtee eeaartyareh, whty WW6, my; Wt “mm m... hmmg
the he
 
t that theta aaa he way ta eaate at them, ta glee there
mil "Wllflhh limit’ WW3” “tittt’y well aatlatled ta ta thl hf
 
 
 
 
 
 
tat htetmatleh te tile hey great, We 33, we” 32%; tmy mmd m it (my mm’
 
H rhlrh “lilrtlllt tltlilltl .hWlilt lhlllltltil
 
 
e'tette eaawtwa he tweet; he” (a, eye},
Mimi limmm mmwhlih lime’ hethtag at the matter till all wae weer}, heme and
ettetetl their aha aaalataaee, aad, dial, very eeeew, werh the a eeral tlaya ta
Wattle their hahltatleae, aatl raalte aeeeaaatlea fer mm mm m 5, mm
“mg ‘that’ hate aet heart thqir lega agate
hheat tee aaya after we they had the feather aatlafaetleh at aeeheg thew mg
mg mm‘gmi mmmm mm driving ml mwmy will at aware diataaee treat them, twe
dtawhetl thee, hy whieh they had teaaeh tel helleae that they had that with a
etette at aea, whieh hatl eeereet eathe at them; the it had. hlewa were hem we
‘light after weat
lrlieweeet, ea heme wright thlaearry, ah, ea the ether head, eaeegh at? them,
 
 
 
 
 
 
escaped to inform .the rest, as well of what they had done, as of what had hap-
pened to them, and to whet them on to another enterprise of the same nature,
which they, it seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to carry all before
them; for except what the rst man had told them of inhabitants, they could say
little of it of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being killed that had afrmed it, they had no other witness to conrm it to them.
It was ve or six months after this before they heard any more of the savages,
in which time our men were in hopes they had either forgot their former bad
luck, or given over hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were invaded by a
most formidable eet of no less than eight~and~twenty canoes, full of savages,
armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden~ swords, and such like engines
of war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our
people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at‘ the easternmost side of the
island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to do; and in the
rst place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was their only safety before.
and‘ would be much more so now, while the number of their enemies would be so
great, they therefore resolved, ‘rst of all, to take down the huts which were built
for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; because they
supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the
old game over again, though they did not now land within two leagues of it. In
the next place, they drove away all the ocks of goats .they had at the old bower,
as I called it, which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of . inhabitants anywhere as was possible; and’ the next morning early
they posted themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of the tWO men, to
await for their coming. As they guessednso it happened: these new invaders,
leaving their'canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging along ‘the shore,
directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fty, as near as
our men could judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but, that which was
worse, they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account, it
seems, stoodsthusz rst, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, ve Englishmen, old
Friday (or Friday’s father), the three slaves taken with the women, who proved
very faithful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards. To arm these,
they had ‘eleven muskets, ve pistols, three fowling-pieces, ve muskets or fowling-
pieces, which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two
swords, and three old halberts. ‘
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee; but they had each a
halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-staff, with a great spike of iron fastened into
each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one of our men had a hatchet.
Two of the women could not be prevailed upon, but ‘they would come into the
ght, and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from the
savages when the rst action happened, which I'have spoken of, where the Indians
fought with one another; and the women had hatchets ‘too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded the whole; and.
TEE FIGHT CONTINUED. 2 79
Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold
fellowgcommanded under him. The savages came forward like lions; and our
men, which was the worst of their‘fate, had no advantage in their situation; -only
that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted.
just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let
the rst of them pass by, and then re into the middle of them, and as soon as
he had red, to make his retreat as nimbly as he could round a part of the wood,
and so come in behind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees‘
before them. '
_When the savages came on, 'they ran straggling about every way in heaps, out
of all manner'of order, and WillAtkins let about fty ‘of them pass by him; then
seeing the rest come in .a very thick throng, he orders three of his men to re,
having loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as large
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded ‘they knew not, but the consterna-
tion and surprise was inexpressible among the savages; they were frightened to the
last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their ‘men killed, and others
hurt, but see‘ nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their ‘fright, Will Atkins
and his "other three let y again among the thickestof them; andgin less than a
minute, the rst three being loaded again, gave 'them a third volley. '
Had Will, Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they had red,
as they were ordered to do, or had the ‘rest of the body been at hand, to have
poured in their shot continually; the savages had been effectually routed; for the
'terror that was among them came principally from this, that they - were killed by
the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them ;_but
Will Atkins’, staying to load again, discovered the-cheat: some of the savages who
were at a .distance spying them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins and i
his men red at them also two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as
fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the
' Indian slaves who- came with the women. This slave was a most gallant fellow,
and fought most desperately, killing ve of them‘ with his own hand, having no
weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet. - . ' - ‘
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other men killed,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after ring three
volleys upon them, retreated also; for their number was so great, and they were i
so desperate, that though above fty of them were killed, and more. than as many
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and shot
their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that their wounded men, who
were not_quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
madmen. . . ' '
' , When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and. Englishman that were
‘killed behind them; and the savages, when they came .up to them, killed them
Over again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with'théir
clubs and wooden swords, like true savages; but nding our men were gone, they
ehe tiirteerew Cettreei.
W
did her eeettt te petette there, her tlrew'thertteelree err la a rlrtg, whleh le, tt reettte,
their eeetete, eheetetl twlee, ht teltert ef their rletery ; after whleh, they heel
the tttertllleetlert he see eererel et their wetttttletl thee fell, tlylerr with the mere
leer ef hleetl,
u
The tltteeiertl gererrter herleg; Cltttwtl hie httle hetly he tegether epert e rleleg
grettetl, htltihe, thettgh he were wettttded, wettlrl here hetl there teereh ttl’ttl. eharge
egeltt eltegether at erteet httt the hpehlertl reelietlww” helgrtler rttlrlhe, yew see hew
 
eewe eteee rtte where” he etllh
their wettedetl thee {let there elerte till theteirtt; all the weetttled thee will}
he etlff eetl were with their wetttttle, artrl later with the leee el hleerlg; erttl we we
ehell here the fewer te ettgege,” ‘little arlrlee wee greed: httt Will htlthte retrlied
teerrlly, Wllhet le tree, eelgeler, arid. re ehell l tee; ertt‘l that the reeeett l
wettltl get err while i are, werre,” ‘t’ Well, helgeler htlrter,” the heattiertl,
“yew. here heheretl gellerrtly, etttl dette year hart; we will hgiht fer yew it yee
reteeet were he; httt l thlrtlt it heat te till eterhlrtg 1:” eel they weltetl,
hat ‘it was a eleer meertllght eight, erttl they fettetl the eeregjee itt greet
rlieereer eheet their dead errtl weerttled thee, erttl a great rtelet erttl herry etttettg
there where they lay, they et’tetwertle reeelretl te tell etrett there hr the eight;
eepeelelly if they eettltl eettte te glee there her erte relley helere they were , tile
etlreretl, whleh they hetl a felt ettttertettity te all»: let ette et the lhttttlltllttttett lrt
wheee tteerter it was where the tlght hegee, led them reerte hetweert the weetle
 
 
VICTOR Y. ~ :2 8 I
and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they came so near where
the thickest of them lay, that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them
red in upon them, and did dreadful execution upon them; in half a minute more,
eight others red'after them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity, that
abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while they. were not able to
see who hurt them, or which way to y.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then divided
themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among them altogethen;
They had in each body eight persons, that is to say, twenty-two men, and the
two women, who, ‘by the- way, fought desperately. They divided the re-arms
equally in each party, as well as the halberds and staves. They would have ‘had
the women kept back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husbands.
Having thus formed their little army, they marched out from among the trees, and
came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could‘;
the savages stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise
of our men shouting'from three quarters together: they would have fought if they.
had seen us 5 for as soon as we came near enough to'be seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not‘ dangerously; but our men
gave them no time, but, running up to them, red among them three ways, and
then fell in with‘ the butt~ends of their, muskets, their swords, armed staves, and
hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, ying to save' their lives which way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally wounded in the
two ghts about one hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out
of their wits, scoured through the woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear- '
and nimble feet could help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much
to pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed, and where
their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible
storm of wind that evening fromlthe sea, so that it was impossible for them -to
go off; nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes '
were most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon‘the shore that it
required innite toil to get them off; and some of them were even dashed to pieces
against the beach, or against one another. -_
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night; but having
refreshed themselves as-well as they could, they resolved to march to that part of
the island where the savages were ed, and see what posture they‘ were in. This
necessarily led them over the place where the ght‘ had been, and where they
found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life;
“a- sight disagreeable enough to generous minds, for a truly great man, though
obliged by, the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there ‘was no need to give any orders in this case; for their own savages,
who were their servants, despatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable remains of
the savages’ army lay, where there appeared about a hundred still; their posture
D
was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up towards their mouth,
and the head put between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket—shots of them, the Spaniard governor‘
ordered two muskets to be fe/d, without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that by
their countenance he might know what to expect, whether they were still in heart
to ght, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he
might ‘manage accordingly. This stratagem took: for as soon as the savages heard
the rst gun, and saw the ash of the second, they started up upon theirfeet in
the greatest consternation imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly towards
them, they all ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before; and thus they ran up
the hills into the country.
At rst our _men had much rather the weather. had been calm, and they had
all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that this might probably
have been the occasion of their coming again in Such multitudes as not to be
resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so often as would quite desolate the
island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding. his ‘wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case ; his advice ‘was,
to take the advantage that offered, and step in between them and their boats,
and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more 'to plague the
island. . _
They consulted long about this; and some were against it for fear of making
the wretches y to the woods and live there desperate, and so they should have '
them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have
their plantations continually ried, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he
reduced to a life of continual distress. '
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do with a hundred men than
with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy their boats, so they must destroy
the men, or be all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed the
necessity of it so plainly that they all came into it; so they went to work im-
mediately with the boats, and gettingsome dry wood together from a dead tree,
,they tried to set some of them on re, but they were so wet that they would'not
burn; however, the re so burned the upper part that it soon made 'them unt
for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they were about,
some of them came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, kneeled down and cried, “Oa, Oa, Waramokoal” and some other
words of their language, which none of the others understood anything of; but as
they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged
to have their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satised that they had no way to preserve them-
selves, or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these people from
ever going home again, depending upon this, that if even so much as one of
them got back into their country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so
that, letting them know that they should not .have any mercy, they fell to work
A ETER THE FIGHT. ‘ ' 28 3
with their canoes, and destroyed every one that the storm had not destroyed before ;
at the sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our
people heard plain enough,‘ after which they ran about the island like distracted
men, so that, in a word, our men did not really know what at rst 'to do with
them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that while they
made those people thus desperate,‘they ought to have kept a good guard at the
same time upon their plantations; for though it is true, they had driven away their
cattle, and the Indians did not nd out their main retreat--I mean my old castle
at the hill, nor the cave in the valley—yet they found out my plantation at the
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it; trod
all the corn. under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe,
and did our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthing’s
worth of service.
Though our men were able to ght them upon all occasions, yet they were in
no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for .as they were too
nimble of foot for our men when they found them single, so our men durst: not
go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded with their numbers. The best
was, they had no weapons; for though ‘they had‘ bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tool or weapon among
them. I t i
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and indeed deplor-
able; but, at the‘ same time, our men were also brought to very bad circumstances
by them; for though their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was de;
stroyed, and their harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which way to turn them-
selves, they knew not. The only refuge they had now was the‘ stock of cattle they
had, in the valley by the cave, and some little corn which grew there, and the
plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who were now
reduced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the
side of his head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke more; and it
was very remarkable that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards. '
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was at
any time, after I rst discovered the grains of barley and rice, and‘got into the
manner of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; for now they had,
as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the island, which would devour everything
they could come at, yet could be hardly come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the rst thing they concluded
was, 'that they would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part of the island,
south-westythat if any more savages came on shore they might not nd one
another; then, that they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of
them as they could come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would give them corn, and
teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily labour.
In order to do this, they so followed them, and so terried them with their
guns, that in a few days, if any of them red a gun at an Indian, if he did not
hit him, yet he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frightened they were
that they kept out of sight farther and farther; till, at last, our men following
them, and almost every day killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in
the woods or hollow places so much that it reduced them to the utmost misery
for want of food; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, absolutely starved to death.
‘ When our men found this it made their hearts relent, and pity moved them,
especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that I ever met with in my life; and he proposed, if possible, to ~
take one of them alive, and bring him to understand what they meant, so far as
to be able to act as interpreter,~and go among them and see if they might be
brought to some conditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives and
do us no harm. ‘ I
It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being weak and
half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner. He was
sullen at rst, and would neither eat nor drink; but nding himself kindly used,‘
and victuals given to him, and no violence offered him, he at last grew tractable,
and came to himself. They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him,
and told him how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but give them part of the island to- live in, provided they
would give satisfaction that they would keep in their own bounds, and not come
beyond it to injure or prejudice others; and that they should have corn given
them to plant and make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them. for
their present subsistence: and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the
rest of his countrymen, and see what they said to it; assuring them that, if they
did not agree immediately, they should- be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to about
thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the rst offer, and begged to have some
food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed,
with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place where they were.
The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled
up to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered to
go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their provisions very thankfully,
and were the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought of; for,
except when they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their
bounds; and ‘there they lived when 1 came to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and
milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon would have been a
nation. They were conned to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind
them, and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the
island: They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about a mile
and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
till; I ssms ts s sisit thsss, smart was assist tws ys
and slsss, sssss ssssss sf ssssgss sssss sts
 
 
sssssts
Qss stss. tss ht them ts ssslss vssssllsst spsslss, sash as I msds fst tsysslf, snd
gsss ssssng thsns twslss hstshsts sad thtss ss fsss lssisss; and thsss thsy iissd,
ths msst sshj? stsd, isssssns sssatssss that svss w hsssti sf;
ss s this, ths sslssy snjsyssl pssfsst tsssqsiliity, with tsspsst ts tlss ssssgss,
 
 
 
'ssssssssss sss
 
 
ssss sssssssss" { ass}.
 
 
sts sftss; sst lsst thst, issw
"hsss fists shsis tsisssphsl, sst" stsssgl
 
 
fsssts; has as thsy wsss sf 'ssssssl sstisss, sud p shsps had. sssss lssssti sf thsss
that ssms hsfs:
" ft
fstsstl tl'ssss sits.
 
 
s, ss ths ssssss, sf it‘, thsy slid nss waits any sssssh tlW isssisy
ss thsis ssssssytses; ssd if shsy hsd, it Wtlisld lssss hsss; vary hsssl ts hsss
.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of ‘all that happened to them till
my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians or savages were wonder-
fully civilised by them, and- they frequently went among them; but forbid, on
pain of death, any' of the Indians coming to them, because they would not.have
their settlement betrayed again. One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets: but they soon outdid their
masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-work, par-
ticularly of all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c. ; as also chairs
to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things; being very ingeni-
ous at such work, when they were once put in the way of it. Q
My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we furnished them
with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things of that kind which
they could want. With the help of those tools, they were so very handy that they
came at last to build up their huts or houses very handsomely, raddling or working
it up like basket-work all the way round; which was a very extraordinary ‘piece of
ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an exceeding good fence, as well against '
heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men were so taken with‘ it, that they
got the wild savages to come and do the like'for them; so that ‘when I came to I
see the two Englishmen’s colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they all lived
like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow,,he had made. himself such a tent of basket-work as, I
believe, was never seen; it was one hundred and twenty paces round on the out-
side, as I measured it by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a basket,
in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and very strong, standing. about seven
feet high; in _"the middle was another not above twenty~two paces round, but built‘
stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight very
strong posts; round the top of which he. laid strong pieces, pinned together with
wooden pins, from which he raised a jpyramid for a roof of eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined together very well, though he had no nails,
and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself too, out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed,'this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several
things which he had no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the re; he made himself charcoal for his work; and he. formed
out of the iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he
made many things, but- especially hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts, and hinges.
But to return to the house: after he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked'it up between the rafters with basket-work, so rm, and thatched that
over again so ingeniously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
‘which. covered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated.
Indeed, he owned that the savages had made the basket-work for him. The outer
circuit-was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long rafters
lay from the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about
twenty feet distant, so that there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker-
wall, and without the inner, near twenty feet wide:
 
,r
‘4/
Y
 
 
iflliiii Ellis” “terms? tat. lqlfv'.
 
 
 
 
ii
THE NEW HOUSE. 287
I
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, but much fairer,
and divided into six apartments, so that he had six rooms on. a floor, and out of
every one of these there was a door; rst into the entry, or coming into the
main tent, another door into the main tent, and another door into the space or
walk that was round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries which the family had
occasion for. These six paces not taking up the whole circumference, what other
apartments the outer circle had were thus ordered: As soon as you were in at
the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage straight before you to the
door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker partition, and a door
in it, by which you went rst into a large room, or storehouse, twenty feet wide and
about thirty feet long, and through that into another not quite so long, so that in
the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come at
through the apartments of the. inner tent, and served as closets or retiring‘rooms
to the respective chambers of the inner circle; and four,la'rge warehouses, or
barns, or what you please to call them, which went through one another, two on
either hand of the passage, that led through the outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world, nor a
house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this great bee-hiveilived
the three families, that is to say, Will Atkins and his companion; the third was
killed, but his wife remainedwith three children, for she was, it seems, big with
child when he died: and the other 'two were not at all backward to give the
widow her full share of everything, I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c., and
when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived
well enough; though, it was true, they were not so industrious as the other two',_
as has been observed already. - '
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., that as for religion, I do not
know that there was anything of that kind among them‘; they often, indeed, put
one another in mind that there‘was a God, by the very common method of sea-
men, swearing by His name: nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much
better for having been married to Christians, as we must call them; for as they
knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable" of entering into
any ‘discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk anything to them con-
cerning religion. ‘ a
The utmost of all the improvement‘which I can say the wives had made fron
them was, that they had taught them to speak English pretty well; and most of
their children, who were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English too, from
their rst learning to speak, though they at rst spoke it in a very broken manner,
like their mothers. There was none of these children above six years old when I
.came thither, for it was not much above seven years since they had fetched these
ve savage ladies over; but they had 'all been pretty fruitful, for they had all
‘children, more or less: I think the cook’s mate’s ‘wife was big of her sixth child;
and the mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious women,
modest and decent. helpful to one another, mighty observant and subject to their
masters (I cannot call them husbands), and wanted nothing 'but to be well in-
structed in the Christian religion, and to be legally married; both which were
happily brought about afterwards by my means, 'or at least in consequence of my
coming among them. _
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty much of
my runagate English, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main
body of the family, and in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable
enough. a ‘
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances when they
were among. the savages. They told me readily that they had no instances to
give of their application or ingenuity in that country; that they were a poor,
miserable, dejected handful of people; that if means had been put into their
bands, they had yet so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the
weight of their misfortune, that they thought of nothing but starving. One of them,
a. grave and sensible man, told me he was convinced they were in the wrong; that
it was not the part of wise men to give themselves up to their misery, but always
to take hold of the helps which reason offered, as well for present support as for .
future deliverance: he told me that grief was the most senseless, insignicant pas-
sion in the world, for that it regarded only things past, which were generally im-
possible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had -no views _of things to come,
and had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but rather added to
the affliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this he repeated a Spanish pro-
verb,- which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in,
yet'I remember I made it into an English. proverb of my own, thus :—
“In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.” ~
"i .' He ran on then in remarks upon all' the little improvements I had made in
my- solitude; my unwearied application, as he called it; ‘and how I had made a
condition, which in its circumstances was at rst much worse than theirs, a, thou-
sand'times more happythan theirs was, even now when they were all together. He
‘told me it was remarkable.’ that Englishmen hada greater presence__- of mind in
their distress than any peoplethat ever he met, with; that their unhappy nation
and the Portuguese were the worst men in the world to struggle with misfortunes”;
for that their- rst step in' dangers, after the common efforts were over, was to
‘despair, lie down under it, and. die, without rousingtheir thoughtsuup to proper
1remedies for escape. . i , , , _ .. g I .
I told him their case and mine di‘eredexeeedingly; thatthey were cast upon
lthe shore without-necessaries, without, supply of_ food, or present sustenance ‘till
.they could provide, for itr'that, it- was true, I, had this disadvantage and discomfort,
lthat» I was alone ;. but then the supplytIhad.,proyjdentially thrown'ijnto my hands,
Eliy- the/unexpected driving of‘..the'. ship on shore, was such a help as would have
=ent50uragedfany' creature in. .the-'-world;to_hav_e applied himself as Iha‘ddidorie.
~tisSeignior,.”_ says' the’Spaniar'd, f‘ha'd. we ‘poor Spaniards been in yourleas'e, we
hsrs .Sirhs a St;
shsnltl never have lirslf thhse things that hf thev ship, as yntr tilitfl; hay,” says
he, i‘ we shnnhl never have lhnhtil means is have grit a raft ts starry them, st" ts
gist the raft sh Elllfjtlftil withhnt; lanai; nr sail a; and haw mush shhnltl we
have thins if any sf its lirsrl hssn slnnsl was, 1 desired hint tn share his tltlllle
f tl'rsir shining sh shsrs, whats tlrrsy lsnrlstil.
,‘lil
plimsnts, and tin with tlits lllllliflly h
 
 
 
is ‘rift/rs mt theta/iiivy; ran ‘this “shares strtsm ( shat.
m
ll s thlrfl his they ‘nnhsppily landed at; s. plates w h are there were permits withthit
‘lllfllllsltlltjllllill whsr had they llhtll the snrnnfrhh sense ts pat ts again, and
ts smasher island little farther, they 'lfisrl lhtrntl yiitrhvislsss, thsngh withsss
pssplh ; thsrs lasing an island that why, as they had hash thltl, where there were
‘riiirhvlsihhs, thtislgh he psrigsls; that is is say, that; the lilpsnisrsls hf "lirihltlsrl hstil
frsrptshtly hash there, anti had hllstil the island. with ,éifllllll and liregs at; several
‘times, whats they had hrstil ill ssh/fr sntiltitntlss, and, where tsrtls and ssssfrhvls were
in shah plenty, that; they shsltl heart in he want; at llssh, thhhgh they had
{Wm} M, §:,,.,,,,g; Wggmgg, mm, sissy were srrly snstsihsrl "with few masts and
lh
herbs, which they understood not, and which had no substance in them, and which the
inhabitants gave them sparingly enough ; and they could treat them no better, unless they
would turn cannibals, and eat men’s esh, which was the great dainty of their country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilise the savages
they were with, and to teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of living,
but in vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust, that they, who came
there for assistance and support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those
that gave them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the in-
structors of others but those who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to; how
sometimes they were many days without any food at all, the island they were upon
being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived more indolent, and for that reason
were less supplied with the necessaries of life than they had reason to believe
others were in the same part of the world: and yet they found that these savages
were less ravenous and voracious than those who had better Supplies of food. Also
they added, they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and good-
ness the governing providence of God directs the events of things in this world:
which, they said, appeared in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships
they were under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had then been out of the way of the relief
that happened to them by my means.
They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived among ex-
pected them to go out with them into their wars; and, it was true, that as they
had re-arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition,
they could have been serviceable not only to friends, but have made themselves
terrible both to friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet
in a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their landlords
to their wars; so when they came into‘ the eld of battle, they were in a worse
condition than the savages themselves, for they had neither bows nor arrows, nor
could they use those the savages gave them; so they could do nothing but stand
still and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them; and they
would often drive a whole little army before them with those ,halberds, and
sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets: but that, for all this, they
were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows,
till at last they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not, and these
covered them from the arrows of the savages: that, notwithstanding these, they
were sometimes in great danger; and ve of them were once knocked down
together with the clubs of the savages, which was the time when one of them was
taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I relieved: that at rst they
thought he had been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was taken prisoner,
they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.
THEIR STORY. 29 I
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their company
rescued them, and stood over them ghting till they were come to themselves, all
but him who they thought had been dead; and then they made their way with
their halberds and pieces, standing close together in a line, through a body of
above a thousand savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victory
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their
friend, whom the other party, nding alive, carried off, with some others, as I gave
an account before. -
They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised with joy at the
return of their friend and companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind—wild men; and yet, how more and more
they were surprised with the account he gave them of his errand, and that there
was a Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had humanity
enough, to contribute to their deliverance. ' ~
They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief I sent them,
and at the appearance of loaves of bread-—-things they had not seen since their
coming to that miserable place; how often they crossed it and blessed it as bread
sent from heaven; and what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it,
as also the other things I had sent for their supply; and, after all, they would
have told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots,
to carry them away to the person and place from whence all these new comforts
came: but it was impossible to express it by words; for their excessive joy
naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no‘ way to describe
them, but by telling me they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent
to their passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it worked
one way, and in some another; and that some of them, through a surprise of joy,
would burst into tears, others be stark mad, and others immediately faint. This
discourse extremely affected me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he
met his father, and the poor people’s ecstasy when I took them up at sea after
their ship-was on re; the joy of the mate/of the ship when he found himself
delivered in the place where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when, after
twenty~eight years’ captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own
Country. All these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor
men, and more affected with it. i _
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, I must relate
the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in which I left them.
It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be troubled no more with the
Savages, or if they were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice
as many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered into a
Serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor, about their stay in the
island; for as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it would not be just
to carry off some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling to stay if
their strength was diminished. On the other hand, I told them I came to es-
tablish them there, not to remove them; and then I let them know that I had
brought with me relief of sundry kind for them; that I had been at a. greatcharge
to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their convenience as their:
defence; and that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well to
increase and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary employments which
they were bred to, being articers, to assist them in those things in which at present
they were in want.
They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I delivered to
them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely
forgot and buried their rst animosities that had been among them, and would
shake, hands with one another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of
interest, that so there might be no more misunderstandings and jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said they had met
with affliction enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make, them
all friends; that, for his part, he would live and die with them, and was so far
from designing anything against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done
nothing to him but what his own mad ‘humour made necessary, and what he would
have done, and perhaps worse, in theircase; and that he would ask them ‘pardon,
if I desired, it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done to them, and was
very willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friendship and union with
them, and would do anything that lay in his power to ' convince them of it; and
as for-going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty
years. ' , _ - j ; _ _~
The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at rst disarmed and excluded Will Atkins
and his twocountrymen for their ill conduct, as they-had let me know, and they
appealed‘ ,to me for_the necessity they were underto do so; ‘butthat Will Atkins
had behaved himself so bravely in the great ght they had with the savages, and
On several occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned
for, the general interest of them all, ‘that they had forgotten all that was passed,
and thought he ,m'erited as‘ much to be trusted with arms and supplied with
necessaries as any of them‘; and they had testified ‘their satisfaction in him by
committing the command to him next to the governor himself; and as they had
entire condence in him and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they had
‘ merited that condence by all the methods that honest men could merit to be
valued and trusted; and they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this
assurance, that they would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed the next
day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. 'I caused the
ship’s, cook and his mate, to come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old
cook’s mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good
beef and four pieces of pork, out of the ship’s - provisions, with our punch-bowl,
and materials to ll it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
- and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the Spaniards nor the English
had tasted for many years, and' which it may be supposed they were very glad of.
The Spaniards added to our feast ve whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and
“‘ %%T1Q
%1Ali
 
 
a
4
N
"1%: m I”)
1:,
5%X“%M
w
‘4
whT,
wk!“
W
 
 
k
aiw
Q My CARGO 0F GOODS. 293
three of them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, that
they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did with their salt meat from
on board '
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I brought my cargo
of goods; wherein, that there might be no dispute about dividing, I showed them
a that there was a sufciency for them all, desiring that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is to say, equal when made up.
As, rst, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them four shirts, and,
at the Spaniard’s request, afterwards made them up six; these were exceeding com-
fortable to them, having been what they had long since forgot the use of, or what
it was to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned beifore,
to make every one a light coat, like a frock, which I judged ttest for. the heat of
the season, cool and loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed, they should
make more, as they thought t; the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, 8:0.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the countenances of
all these poor men, when they saw the care I had taken of them, andihown well
I had furnished them. They told me I was a father to them;-and that having
such a correspondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, it would make
them forget that they were left in a desolate place; and they all- voluntarily engaged
to me not togleave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me, particularly the‘
’ tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, my general articer, than whom they could not name anything that
was more useful to them; and the tailor, to show his“ concern for them, went to
work immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt,‘ the rst thing
he did; and, what was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the, shirts for their
husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were; for they
took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of .that
kind. ‘But to let them see how Nature made articers at rst, I carried the car-
penters to see Will Atkins’ basket-house, as I called it; and they both owned they
never saw.an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything so regular and
so handily built, at least of its kind; and one of them, when he saw it, after
musing a good while, turning about to me, “I am sure,” says he, “that man‘ has
no need of us; you need do nothing but give him tools.”
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man a digging-
spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or plough; and to every
separate place a pickaxe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing, that
as often as any were broken or worn out, they 'should be supplied, without
grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges,
hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had without
reserve, as they required; for no man would take _more than he wanted, and he
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them on any account whatever; and‘for
the use of the smith I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such, even to
profusion, that they could notbut rejoice at them; for now they could miarch, as
I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and were
able to ght a thousand savages, if they had but some little advantages of situation,
which also they could not miss, if they had occasion. ,
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved to death,
and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated, religious young woman, and
behaved so 'inoffensively that every one gave her a good word; she had, indeed,
an unhappy life with us, there being no woman in the ship but herself, but she
bore it'with patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so ne
a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had neither business
nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage, both
of them came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among my family, as they called it. I agreed to this
readily; and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them, where they had
three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work, pallisadoed like Atkins’,
adjoining to his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had each of
them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two Englishmen
removed their habitation to the same place; and so the island was divided into
three colonies, and no more---viz., the Spaniards, with old Friday and the rst
servants, at my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital
city, and where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as well under as
on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full at'
large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, in any part of
the world; for I verily believe that a thousand men might have ranged the island
for a month, and, if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked on
purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close, and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but cutting them
down rst could discover the place, except the only two narrow entrances where
they went in and out could be found, which was not very easy; one of them was
close down at the water’s edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards
above two hundred yards to the place: and the other was up a ladder at twice,
as I have already described it; and they had also a large wood, thickly planted,
on the top of the hill, containing ‘above an acre, which grew apace, and concealed
the place from all discovery there, with only one narrow place between two trees,
not easily to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The only colony was that ‘of Will Atkins, where there were four families of
Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their wives and children; three‘
savages that were slaves, the widow and the children of the Englishman that was
killed, the young man and the maid, and, by the way, we made a wife of her before
we went away. There were also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought
-..... "awk- ~ -
THE FRENCH PRIEST. 295
with me for them: also the smith,‘ who was a very necessary man .to them, espe-
cially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my other man, whom I called
Jack-of-all-trades, who was in himself as good almost as twenty men; for he was
not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow, and before I went away
we married him to the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say something of the
French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me out of the ship’s crew whom I took
up at sea. 'It is true this man was a Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to
some hereafter if I leave anything extraordinary upon record of a man whom,
before I begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in terms very
much to his disadvantage, in the account of Protestants; as, rst, that he was a
Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and thirdly, a French Popish priest. But
justice demands of me to give him a due character; and I must say, he was a
. grave, sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his
charity, and exemplary in almost everything he did. What, then, can any one say
against being very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding his pro-
fession? though it may be my opinion, perhaps, as well as the opinion of others
who shall read this, that he was mistaken.
The rst hour that I began to converse with him, after he had agreed to go
with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conver-
sation; and he rst began with me about religion in the most obliging manner
imaginable. “Sir,” says he, “you have not only under God (and at‘ that he
crossed his breast) saved my life, butlyou have admitted me to go this voyage in
your ship, and, by your obliging civility, have taken me into your family, giving
me an opportunity of free conversation. Now, sir, you see by my habit what my
profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours is; I may think it is my
-.duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to
bring all the souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the
Catholic doctrine; but as I am here under your permission, and in your family,
I am bound in justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good manners,
to be under your government; and therefore I shall not, without your leave, enter’
into any debate on the points of religion in which we may not agree, farther than
you shall give me leave.” '
I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknowledge it;
that it was true we were such people as they called heretics, but that he ‘was
not the rst Catholic I had conversed with, without falling into ‘inconveniences, or
carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he should not nd himself
the/worse used for being of a different opinion from us, and if we did not con-
verse without any dislike on either side, it should be his fault, not ours.
He replied that he thought all our ‘conversation might be easily separated
from disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with every man he
conversed with; and that be rather desired me to converse with hir as a gentle-
man than as a religionist ; and that, if I would give him leave at any time to
discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with it, and that he did
not doubt but I would allow him also to defend his own opinions as well as he
could; but that, without my leave, he would not break in upon me with any such’
thing. He told me, farther, that he would not cease to do all that became him,
in his ofce as a priest, as well as a private Christian, to procure the good of
the ship, and the safety of all that was in her; and though, perhaps, we would
not join with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might ‘pray for
us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and
as he was of the most obliging, gentlemanlike behaviour, so he was, if I may be
allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many extra-
ordinary events of it; of many adventures which had befallen him in the few
years that he had been abroad in the world; and particularly it was very re-
markable, that in the voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to
be ve times shipped and unshipped, and never to go to the place whither any
of the ships he was in at rst designed. That his-rst intent was to have gone to
Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound thither at' St. Malo; but,
being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some damage by
running aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged to unload her
cargo there; but nding a Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and
ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there bound to
Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras ; but the master of
the Portuguese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, had been out of his reckon-
ing, and they drove to Fyal ; where, however, he happened to nd a very good
market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore resolved not to go to the
Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland.
He had no remedy in this exigence but to go with the ship, and had a pretty
good voyage as far as the banks (so they call the place where they catch the
sh), where, meeting with a French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the
river of Canada, and from thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
should have an opportunity to complete his rst design; but when he came to
Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded no farther; so the
next voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burned when we
took them up at sea, and then shipped with us for the East Indies, as I have
already said. Thus he had been disappointed in ve voyages, all, as I may call
it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion to mention farther of
him. .
But I shall not make digression into other men’s stories, which have no rela-
tion to my own; I return to what concerns our affairs in the island. He came ‘
to me one morning (for be lodged among us all the while we were upon the
island), and it happened to be just when I was going to visit the Englishmen’s
colony, at the farthest part of the island; I say, he came to me, and told me,
with a very grave countenance, that he ‘had for two or three days desired an
opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped would not be displeasing
\
ts tats, hasattss ha thattght it might is stittlt’ttit iittsasars satraspaatil with my tltfsijfftt, whish was, the ptaspstity sf my saw aalsay, aati psrhaps might pat it, at
lsast mars thaw. thtatght it was, in ‘this say sf thati’s hlssshtg.
I isshstl litiils sttrptissti at the last part at his tlissasrss, asst taming a littls
shstt, ‘i lilfsw, shxfi said i, Mtlitttt it ha said that was art» that is tha way at titsdi’s
 
t“ statat assist as a mass t
htsssiagf, aftsr sash sisihls assistaasss sad tlslivstaasss as aw hasa sash hats, asst
sf sass. Li hays gissn yatt sat:thattPM ‘f ysa had, pisasati, sit,” saiti with a wat'ltjl at attaissty, aati yst grass tsatiiasss, “ts laws hsarti ms, yaw wssld
iltttitt fsaatt as assist. ta hash litsstt tiisplsassti, swash thiah hattl sf ttttit,
that I shtatltl gsst that yaw havs fast hati wsatiisrfal assistant: sari cialisatatwtss;
sad i haps, as yaarhshalf, yatt ass is tha way at*' tiatiis hlsssiag, aatt yatlt
is sssssttiag gssti, sad will ptsspar: that, air, thsagh it wars mass as
thaa sass psssiliila ts ysa, thaws may ha slams ysa that are sat;
sattaily sight is thsir satisas: sari yatt kaaw, that is tha staty sf ahihilrstt sf
,l‘srasl, arts hshsn is tha satap rstassstl tiatiis hissshtgf hast thsts, sad tarastl
hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not concerned in the
crime, were the objects of Divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that punish-
ment.”
I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him his inference was so
just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its
own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him, and begged him to go
on; and, in the meantime, because it seemed that what we had both to say might
take up some time, I told him I was going to the Englishmen’s plantations, and
asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the way. He told me
' he would the more willingly wait on me thither, because there partly the thing
was acted which he desired to speak to me about; so we walked on, and I pressed
him to be free and plain with me in what he had to say. _
“Why, then, sir,” says he, “be pleased to give me leave to lay down a few
propositions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may not differ in
the general principles, though we may be of some differing opinions in the prac-
tice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of
religion (and it is very unhappy it is so,_especially in the case before us, as I
shall show afterwards), yet there are some general principles in which we both
agree—that there is a God; and that this God having given us‘ some stated
general rules for our service and obedience, we ought not willingly and knowingly
to offend Him,‘ either by neglecting to do what He has commanded, or by doing
what He has expressly forbidden. And let our different religions be what they
will, this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the blessing of God
does not ordinarily follow presumptuous sinning against His command; and every
good Christian will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under his
care living in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is not your men
being. Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if I it lies before me, that
they should live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as possible.
especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit.”
I could not yet imagine what be aimed at, and told him I granted all he had
said, and thanked him that he would so far ‘concern himself for us, and begged
he would explain the particulars of what he had observed, that like joshua, to
take his own parable, I might put away the accursed thing from us.
“Why, then, sir,” says he, “I will take the liberty you give me; and there are
three things, which, if I am right, must stand in the way of God’s blessing upon
your endeavours here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake and their own, to
see removed. And, sir, I promise myself that you will fully agree with me in
them all, as soon as I name them; especially, because I-shall convince you, that
every one of them may, with great ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be
remedied. First, sir,” says he, “you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched
women from among the savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have had
many children by them all, and yet are not married to them after any statedlegal
manner, as the laws of God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense
of both, no less than fornicators, if not living in adultery. To this, sir, I know
you will object that there was no clergymen or priest of any kind, or any pro-
fession, to perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a
contract of marriage, and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir,
what the Spaniard governor has told you, I mean, of the agreement that he
obliged them to make when they took those women, viz., that they should choose
them out by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by the way, is'nothing
of a marriage, no agreement with the women as wives, but only an agreement
among themselves to keep them from quarrelling. But, sir, the essence of the
sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only in the
mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man and wife, but in the
formal and legal obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man and
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; obliging the man to
abstain from all other women, to engage in no other contract while ‘these subsist;
and, on all occasions, as ability allows, to provide honestly ‘for them and their
children; and to oblige the women to the same or like conditions, mutatz's rzzutandzlr,
on their side. Now, sir,” says he, “these men may, when they please, or when
occasion presents, abandon these women, disown their children, leave them to
perish, and take other women, and marry them while these are living ;” and here
he added, with some warmth, “How, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful
liberty? And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men, who at
present are your subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are
allowed by you to live in open adultery?” .
I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more with the con-
vincing arguments he supported it with; for it was certainly true that, though they
had no clergyman upon the spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made before
witnesses, and confirmed by any token which they had all agreed to be bound by,
though it had been but breaking a stick between them, engaging the men to own
these women for their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or
their children, and the women to the same with their husbands, had been an
effectual lawful marriage in the sight of God; and it was a great neglect that, it
was not done. But I thought to have got off my young priest by telling him that
all that part was done when I was not there; and that they had lived so many
years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was past remedy; nothing could
be done in it now.
“Sir,” says he, “asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in this,
that, it being done in your absence, you could not be charged with that part of
. the crime; but, I beseech you, atter not yourself that you are not, therefore,
under an obligation to do your utmost now to put an end to it. How can you
think but that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the future
‘will lie entirely upon you? because it is certainly in your power now to put an
end to it, and in nobody’s power but yours.” ‘
I was so dull still that I did not understand him right; but I imagined that
by putting an end to it, he meant that I should part them, and not suffer them
to live together any longer; and I said to him I could not do that by any
means, for that would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed surprised
that I should so far mistake him. “No, sir,” says he, “I do not mean that you
should now separate them, but legally and effectually marry them; and as, sir,
my way of marrying them may not be easy to reconcile them to, though it'will
be effectual, even by your own laws, so your way may be as well before God, and
as valid among men. I mean by a written contract, signed by both man and
woman, and by all the witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe would
decree to be valid." -
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal, besides
the unusual impartiality in his discourse, as to his own party or church, and such
true warmth for preserving the people, that he had no knowledge of or relation
to; I say, for preserving them from transgressing the laws of God, the like of
which I had, indeed, not met with anywhere. But recollecting what he had said
of marrying them by a written ‘contract, which I knew he wouldstand' to, I re-
turned it back upon him, and told him I granted all that he had said to- be: just,‘ and
on his part very kind; that I would discourse with the men upon the point now,
when I came to them; and I knew no reason why they should scruple' to let 'him
marry them all, which I knew well enough would be granted to be as authentic
and valid in England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.
What was afterwards done in this matter, I shall speak of by itself.
I. then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which he had
to make, acknowledging that I was very much his debtor for the first, and thanked
him heartily for it. He told me he would use the same freedom and plainness
in the second, and hoped I would take it as well; and this was, that notwith-
standing these English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived with these
women almost seven years, had taught them to speak English and even, to read
it, and that they were, as be perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and
capable of instruction, yet they had not, to this hour, taught them anything of the
Christian‘ religion—no, not so much as to know that there was a God, or a wor-
ship, or in what manner God was to be served, or that their own idolatry, and
worshipping they, knew not ‘whom, was false and absurd. This, he said, was an
unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them to account for, .
and perhaps at last take the work out of their hands. He spoke this very affec-
tionately and warmly. “I am persuaded,” says he, “had those men lived in the
savage country whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to be idolators, and to worship the devil, than any of these
men, so far as I can see, have taken with them to teach them the knowledge of
the true God. Now, sir,” said he, “though I do not acknowledge your religion,
or you mine, yet we would be glad to see the devil's servants, and the subjects
of his kingdom, taught to know the general principles of the Christian religion;
that they might, at least, hear of God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection,
and of a future state---things which we all believe; that they might, at least, be
his Char as t
 
 
ata saw, is the pahlis hrsthsslaa sf itlalatty tlasilawtwshih.ll
l ssaltl lttlltl as l lash him is my
arms, atttl stalwasssl lflltll; with as sass" at" as
M Haw lat,” .;;aitl l ts him, it hash hash hath a
tthtlatstahtliag tha mast asssatlal sf a Uhtlstiaa,
via, ts lass tha ihtatsst sf ths (llwistlaa sharsh,
aatl tha gsatl at” athst stasis sattlsl l ssatss lthswtt what ljtslsags ta that hsihg a (:llt‘lllllhll.”
“Oh, (ls hat say as,ll
tshliasl ha, this thias;
tltll ysat lash.” “his,”
saitl I: 4“that why tlitl l
ttsttsr lay it ts as
wall yaw?” MIt is hat
tss lats that,M sahl ; ‘i sat has thtwattl ts tatatlsata
yastsslf,“ ‘l list what has
ha tlaas lltlttl l‘ W l;
ll has sat away.”
‘it talh; with thsss pass alas
ahtlttt it;W “ with all
heart,” sahil ‘i
will hlitlllgs this/m hsstl ts what ysa say that”
l‘ ta that,” said has, Mws
mast ltltttftt thsst ts ths
messy at tihtist ,1, hat it ystw haslaass ts assist them,
aasantaga thaws, sad 'ittsttttst
thaws; shall it yaa ttltl
ahtl (last ltlls ;
l tls hat tlsaht hat tha
phat igastaat ssals shall htaaght hams ts the gtsat
shalt: at” Ifl‘hristiahlty, if that
lists tjswtisttlar we
all stalwasa, aatl sass .
whils ysa stay llhsa wt? all‘ i’ this, I saltl, ‘ll shall. sat A
stily was lsass, latt
yaw a thsttsatttl has it,” llfhat tsllawstl shall tttstttiaa ht
plasa,
 
 
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame. “Why,
really,” says be, “it is of the same nature. And I will proceed, asking your leave,
with the same plainness as before. It is about your poor savages, who are, as I
may say, your conquered subjects. It is a. maxim, sir, that is, or ought to be,
received among all Christians, of what church or pretended church soever, that
the Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all
possible occasions. It is on this principle that our Church sends missionaries into
Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly
engage in the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence among
murderers and barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to
bring them over to_ embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an
opportunity here to have six or seven and thirty poor savages brought over from
a state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I
wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing good which is really worth
the expense of a man’s whole life.” '
‘ I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I had here
the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his parti-
cular principles be of what. kind soever. As for me, I had not so much as
entertained a thought of this in my heart before, and I believe I should not have
thought of it; for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom, .had
we not had any work for them to do, we would have used‘as such, or would have
been glad to have'transported them to any other part of the world; for our
business was to get rid of them, and we would all have been satised if they had
been sent'to any country, so they had never seen their own. I was confounded
at his discourse, and knew not what answer to make him.
He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder-J‘ Sir,” says he, “I
shall be very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence.” “No, no,” said
I, “I am offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly confounded, not
only to think that I should never take any notice of this before, but with reecting
what notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir,” said I, “what circum-
stances I am in; I am bound to the East Indies in a ship freighted by merchants,
and to whom it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship
here, the men lying all this .while at victuals and wages on the owners’ account.
It is true, I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must
pay three pounds sterling per diem demurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage
above eight days more, and I have been here thirteen already; so that I am
perfectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would suffer myself to be left.
behind here again; in which case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part
of her voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was left in here at
rst, and from which I have been so wonderfully delivered.” He owned the case
was very hard upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience,
whether the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all I had
in the world for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I replied to him
thus: “Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an‘ instrument‘ in God’s
THE FRENCH PMzs-T’s ZEAL. ' 303 -
hand to convert thirty-seven heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are
an. ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work, so it seems so naturally to fall
into the way of your profession; how is it, then, that you do not rather offer
yourself to undertake it than press me to do it?”
Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked along, and putting me
to a full stop, made me a very low bow. “I most heartily thank God and you,
sir,” said he, “for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you
think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I‘ will most
readily do' it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and diiculties of
such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met with, that I am dropped at
last into so glorious a work.”
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me: his eyes
sparkled like re, his face glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
been falling into ts; in a word, he was red with the joy of being embarked in
such a work. I paused a considerable while before I could tell what to say to
him; for I was really surprised to nd a man of such sincerity and zeal, and
carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of his profession
only, but even of any profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it awhile,
I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would venture, on the
single consideration of an attempt to convert those poor people, to be locked up
in an unplanted island for, perhaps, his life, and at last might not know whether
he should be able to do them good or not.
He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture. “Pray,
sir,” said he, “what do you think I consented to go in your ship to the East
Indies for?” “Nay,” said I, “that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians.” “Doubtless it was,” said he; “and do you think, if I can convert
these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time, though
I should never be fetched off the island again ?---nay, is it not innitely of more
worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the life of twenty more of the
same profession? Yes, sir,” says he, “I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my days if I could be made the happy instrument of saving the souls
of those poor men, though I were never to get- my foot off. this island, or see my
native country any more. But since you will honour me with putting me into
this work, for which I will pray for you all the days of my life, I have one hum- _
ble petition to you besides.” “What is that?” said I. “Why,” says he, “it is,
that you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to -them, and
to assist me; for without some help I cannot speak to.them, or they to me.”
' I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could not think of
parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had been the companion of my
travels; he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last
degree; and I had resolved to do something considerable for him if he outlived
me, as it was probable he would. Then I knew that, as I had bred Friday up
to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to bring him to embrace another
religion; and he would never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was a heretic, and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the
poor fellow’s principles, and so turn him back again to his rst idolatry. How-
ever, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I
could not say that I was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever,
though a work that to him was of more value than his life ought to be to me of
much more value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But, on the other
hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by no means agree to part with me;
and I could not force him to it without his consent, without manifest injustice;
because I had promised I would never send him away, and he hadpromised and
engaged to me that he would never leave me, unless I sent him away.
He seemed very_much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to these
poor people; seeing he did not understand one word of their language, nor they
one of his. To remove this difculty, I told him Friday’s father had learned
Spanish, which I found he also understood, and he Should serve him as an inter-
preter. So he was much better satised, and nothing could persuade him but he
would stay and endeavour to convert them; but Providence gave another very
happy turh to all this.
I comeback now to the rst part of his objections. When we came to the
Englishmen, I sent.for them all together, and after some account given them of
what I had ‘done for them, viz., what necessary things I had provided for them,
and how they were distributed, which they were very sensible of, and very thankful
for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full~
account of the notice the clergyman had taken of it; and arguing how unchristian
and irreligious a life it was, I rst asked them if they were married men or.
bachelors. They soon explained their condition to me, and showed that two of
them were widowers, and the other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked
them with what conscience they could take these women, and call them their
wives, and have so many children by them, and not be lawfully married to them.
They all gave me the answer I expected, viz., that there was nobody to marry
them; that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives, and to
maintain them and own them as their wives; and they thought, as things stood
with them, they were as legally married as‘ if they had been, married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and were
bound-in conscience to keep them as their wives; but 'that the laws of men being
otherwise, they might desert the poor women and children hereafter; and that their
wives, being poor desolate women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way
to help themselves. I therefore told them that, unless I was assured of their
honest intent, I could do nothing for them, but would take care that what I did
should be for the women and children without them; and that, unless they would
give me some assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think it
was convenient they should continue together as man and wife; for that it was
both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could not think would
bless them if they went on thus.
 
 
m g1 UM”; MLWW'; 3m 5;
 
 
Ehiié Wmm mm M I Y mama} ; and may mid 13m, wagw‘mizimy Will Atkim, W
mmv w” Jim w ifjamk. my rm mm‘t, Mimi thii'y mwd mm “WW 5w Wail m if MW
hm} @Ii Eiwzfm in Miifif” mwm. mxtiw mmmry} wai Wml mm iaw mm mm My
Zillilt whmm’m; and Hi I did, Wrily aw that mm: wiwzza WW2 virmm
and, w mliy mm did‘, in m u mmsiit M t‘mir {mm m mmxh {@317 than Jam/xvii {m
 
 
 
“MWEWZ ME 1% “WW? KW WW {pm W33»
 
 
éiiihimi” n as; my wmmm mmhfi {aimmiy m; and %;my WWW mm mm mm
fmm mm my amzmzmg and Wi, mkximj {m his; mm ‘gjmiimmm mMm,, that if my
mimm Wmzld mk him mmyy Mid mffiz” m (‘z/‘tarry Mm Iwm': m rgizmma and him mwzzm mi?” m h w m rmflwr in ilhij‘; MW, 1% 1» WM. mt gm with him if Ef'm
1mm; mmy Mia; 'Wifé): mm mhihfimm WM”? him; and if” 2mm WW ex {:55 rgymmm in
ahipw m» Wmmm rmmgzzd m m 2* MW with 42m hiaa mm
Thiaa; Wm jmzgtg 2m 1 Wmmii MW it. gjwiimt wxm mm‘; with mm: m"
13m mw mm far m w my Mm mmhmm ll?v WM him I had; a @mm Mm. 21m»?
Wail? 1w Wii immm I % WM hmm Mm mzwimi mm: mmmi ~mi b'mcim him
mmimm 05? it, Mali Wk; Wm Him 3% L, gzzxicfi, f mmm 21% mi, mm
iiimmidw mi“ it: :21: M’ {m wry rmmifp m it? mmii "a LI m1 m
 
 
 
 
£9“?
MW; mmmmtg
 
 
w
 
 
£3
 
 
 
 
minister with me, and he believed they would be all willing also. I then told
him that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could not speak English,
but I would act the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was, indeed, what I was afraid of;
so we parted: I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk
with his companions. I desired the French gentleman not to say anything to them
till the business was thoroughly ripe; and I told him what answer the men had
given me. .
Before I went from their quarter they all came to me, arid told me they had
been considering what I had said; that they were glad to hear I had a clergyman
in my company, and they were very willing to give'me the satisfaction I desired,
and to be formally married as soon as I pleased; for they were far from desiring
to part with their wives, and that they meant nothing but what was very honest
when they chose them. So I appointed them to meet me the next morning; and,
in the meantime, they should let their wives know the meaning of the marriage
law; and that it was not only to prevent any Scandal. but 11150 ‘[0 oblige them that '
they should not forsakeithem, whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were
very well satised with it, as, indeed, they had reason to be: so they failed not
to attend altogether at my apartment next morning, where I brought out my
clergyman; and though he had not on a minister’s gown, after the manner of
England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France, yet having a black
vest something like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike
a minister; and as for his language, I was his interpreter. But the seriousness of
his behaviour to them, and the scruples he made of marrying the women, because
they were not baptised and professed Christians gave them an exceeding reverence
for his person; and‘ there was no need, after that, to inquire whether he was a
clergyman or not. Indeed, I was afraid his scruples would‘ have been carried so
far as that he would not have married them at all; nay, notwithstanding ‘all I was
able to say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and at last
refused absolutely to marry them, unless‘ he had rst talked with the men and the
women too; and though at rst I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed
to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design. ‘
_ When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him with
their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very willing to
perform that part of his function, and marry them, as I had desired; but that
before he could do it he must take the liberty to talk with them. He told them
that in the sight of all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of society,
they had lived all this while in open fornication; and that it was true that nothing
but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating them from one another, could
now put an end to it; but there was a difculty in it too, with respect to the
laws -of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully satised about, that of
marrying one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolator, and a heathen
---one that is not baptised; and yet that he did not see that there was time left
TEE [11.4 NNJA 6.5 C ENEMONY. 307
to endeavour to persuade the women to be baptised, or to profess the name of
Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they
could not be baptised. He told them he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little knowledge of God or of His ways,
and therefore he could not expect that they ‘had said much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their endeavours with
their wives to persuade them to become Christians, and would, as well as they
could, instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he would
have no hand in joining Christians with Savages, nor was it consistent with
the principles of the Christian religion, and was, indeed, expressly forbidden in
God’s law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully to them
from his mouth, as near his own words as I could, only sometimes adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was, and that I was of his mind;
and I always very faithfully distinguished between what I said from myself, and
what were the clergyman’s words. They-told me it was very true what the gentle-
man said, that they were very indifferent Christians ‘themselves, and that they had
never talked to their wives about religion. “Lord, sir,” says Will Atkins, “how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing ourselves; and besides,
sir,” said he, “should we talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and
hell, it would make them laugh at_us, and ask us what we believe ourselves. And
if we should tell them that we believe all the things we speak of to them, such
as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would
ask us where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and are such wicked
fellows as we indeed are. Why, sir, ’tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion
at rst hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before they pretend to
teach other people.” “Will Atkins,” said I to him, “though I am afraid that what
you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your wife she is in, the
wrong; that there is a God, and a religion better than her own; that her gods
are idols; that they can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that
made all things, and that can destroy all that He has made; that He rewards the
good and punishes the bad; and that we are to be judged by Him at last for all
We do here? You are not so ignorant, but even Nature itself will teach you that
all this is true; and I am satised you know it all to be true, and believe it your-
self.” “That is true, sir,” said Atkins; “but with what face can I say anything
to my wife of all this, when she will tell me immediately it .cannot be true?”
“ Not true!” said I; “what do you mean by that?” “Why, sir,” said he, “ she
‘ Will tell me it cannot be true that this God I shall tell her of can be just, or can
punish or reward, since I am not punished and sent to the devil, that have been
Such a wicked creature as she knows I have been, even to her, and to everybody
else; and that I should be sufferedl'to live, that have been always acting so
Contrary to-what I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have done.”
l“Why, truly, Atkins,” said I, “I am afraid thou speakest too much truth,” and
gall) Maintainer t. a
 
 
with that l. ieferererl the elergyrnan ef what hail aairi, fer he waa irnriatient
re anew. “Gill,” said the priest, ff tell there nee thing will make him the
rniniater in the werhl la hie wife, and that la, reiienraeee ,; fer nnne teaeh
renentanee lllre tree penitents. wanta nething her tn repeat, and then lire he an rnaeh the hatter rjnaliiierl re inatrner wife ;; he will then he ahle re tell
her that there is net enly a (led, and. that lie is the jest re'wanler ei grand and
 
er are. wane re f” l ,a
eril, hat that la a rnereiial and, with infinite geedrieaa and lengeaflhring,
ierheara re peniah. rllreae that eilend; waiting in he graeiena, and willing net the
death iii a winner, law rather that; he ahenlrl retina and lire; that efrenrirnea life
aniline winked wren re a hang were, eren reaerrea darnnarien re the general
relay‘ el retrihntien; that it is a elear erirlenee elf lied and hi franre state, that
rlghteena men net their reward, er wielretl then their pnniahrnent, till they
eeine late anether warlrl; and thin will lead hini re ‘reaeh hie wife the deerrine hi
the reaarreetlen and all the last: jntlgrrrent. ilet him hat repent himself, he will live
an eaeellenr preaeher hf rejjientanee re hie wife.”
repeated all re .hllrina, whe leeherl rery all the while, and whe,
we eeahi riereeire, waa aware than errlinarily with it I; when hiring
eager, and harrlly aaiiering are re rnalre an lrnew all rhia, haaeter,iM aaya
he, ‘f and a deal nierej, hat hare net the irnnnilenee re rallr thee te ray
WILL A TA’INS HAS S are UPLES. 309
wife, when God and my conscience know, and my wife will be an undeniable
evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God or
future state, or anything about it; and to talk of my repenting, alas! (and with
that he fetched a deep sigh, and I could see that the tears stood in his eyes)
‘tis past all that with me.” “Past it, Atkins?” said I: “what dost thou mean by
that?” “I know well enough what I mean,” says he; “I mean ’tis too late, and
that is too true.”
I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said: the poor, zealous priest—
I must call him so, for, be his opinion what it will, he had certainly a most Sin-
gular affection for the good of other men’s 'souls, and it would be hard to think
he had not the like for his own—I say, this affectionate man could not refrain
from tears; but, recovering himself, said to me, “Ask him but one question. Is
he easy that it is too late; or is he troubled, and wishes it were not so?”- I
put the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered, with a great deal of passion,
“How could any man be easy in a condition that must certainly end in eternal
destruction? that he was far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he
believed it would one time or other ruin him.” “What do you mean by that?”
said I. “Why,” he said, “he believed he should one time or other out his
throat, to put an end to the terror of it.” _ '
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his face, when I told
him all this; but turning quick to me upon it, says, “ If that be his case, we
may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance. But pray,”
says he, “explain this to him; that as no man is saved but by Christ, and the
merit of His passion procuring Divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for
any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin beyond the power
or reach of Divine mercy? Pray tell him there may be a time when provoked
mercy will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to bear, but that it is
never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are Christ’s servants, are com-
manded to preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those
that sincerely repent: so that it is never too late to repent.”
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it seemed
as if he turned off the discourse to the rest, for he said to me, he would go and
have some talk with his wife; so he went out awhile, and we talked to the rest.
I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion, as much as I
was when I went rambling away from my father; and yet there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said: and all of them seriously promised that
they would talk with their wives about it, and do their endeavours to persuade
them to turn Christians. .
The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they gave, but
said nothing a good while; but at last, shaking his head, “We that are Christ’s
servants,” says he, “can go no farther than to exhort and instruct; and when men
Comply,- submit to the reproof, and promise what we ask, ’tis all we can do; we
are bound to accept their good words; but believe me, sir,” said he, “whatever
you may have known of the life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he
is the only sincere convert among them: I will not despair of the rest; but that
man is apparently struck with the sense of his past life, and I doubt not, when
he comes to talk of religion to his wife, he will talk himself effectually .into
it: for attempting to teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves.
I know a man who, having nothing but a summary notion of religion himself, and
being wicked and proigate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough re-
formation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew“ If that poor Atkins begins
but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it he talks him-
self into a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent ; and who knows what
may follow?”
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endeavour to
persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other two couple;
but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman
waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone; and turning to me,
said, “I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look; I
daresay we shall nd this poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to his
wife, and teaching her already something of religion.” I began to be of the same
mind; so we went out together, and I carried him a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so very thick that it was not easy to see
through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out: when,
coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny wife sitting ‘under
the shade of a bush, very eager in_ discourse; I stopped short till my clergyman
came up to me, and then, having shown him where they were, we stood and
looked very steadily at them a good while. We observed him very earnest with
her, pointing up to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to
the trees. “Now,” says the clergyman, “you see my words are made good, the
man preaches to her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has made
him and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the‘ trees, &c.” “I
believe he is,” said I. Immediately, we perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet,
fall down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We supposed he said
something, but we could not hear him; it was too far for that. He did not
continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and
talks to her again; we perceived then the woman very attentive, but whether
she said anything to him we could not tell. ‘While the poor fellow was upon his
knees I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman’s cheeks, and I
could hardly forbear myself: but it was a great aliction to us both that we were
not near enough to hear anything that passed between them. Well, however, we
could come no nearer for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an end
of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us without the
help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked
again earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace her
most passionately; another time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe
her eyes, and then kiss her again with a kind of transport very unusual; and
THE CONVERSION. 3 1 I
after several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again, and lend
her his hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand - a step
_ or two, they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, “St. Paul! St. Paul!
behold, he prayeth !” I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore I entreated
him to withhold himself awhile, that we might see an end to the scene, which to
me, I must confess, was the most affecting that I ever saw in my life. Well, he
strove with himself for awhile, but was in such raptures, to think that the poor
heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was not able to contain himself;
he wept several times, then throwing up his hands and crossing his breast, said
over several things ejaculatory, and by the way of giving G‘od thanks for so
miraculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours; some he spoke softly,
and I could not well hear others; some in Latin, some in ‘French; then two or
three times the tears would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all; but I
begged that he would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe
what was before 'us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near ended
yet; for after the poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees, we
observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we observed by her motion,
that she was greatly affected with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her '
hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures as express the
greatest seriousness and attention; this continued about half a quarter of an hour;
and then they'walked away so we could see no more of them in that situation.
I took this intervalto say to the clergyman, rst, that I was glad to see the
particulars we had both been witness to; that, though I was hard enough of
belief in such cases, yet that I began to think that it was all very sincere here,
both in the man and his ‘wife, however ignorant they might both be, and I hoped
such a beginning would yet have a more happy end: “And who knows,” said I,
“but these two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon some of the
others?” “Some of them?” said he, turning quick upon me; “ay, upon all of
them; depend upon it, if those two savages-~~for he has been but little better as
you relate it-—-should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave till they work
upon all the rest; for true religion is naturally communicative, and he that is
once made a Christian will never leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it.”
I owned it was a most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony of true
zeal, as well as a generous heart, in him. “But, my friend,” said I, “will you
give me leave to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell how to object the least
thing against'that affectionate concern which you show for the turning of the
poor people from their Paganism to the Christian religion; but how does this
comfort you, while these people are, in your accpunt, out of the pale of the
Catholic Church, without which you believe there is no salvation? so that you
esteem these but heretics, as effectually lost as the Pagans themselves.”
To this he answered with abundance of candour, thus: “Sir, I am a Catholic
of the Roman Church, and a priest of the order of St, Benedict, and I embrace
all the principles of the Roman faith; but yet, if you will believe me, and that
I do not speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances and
your civilities ; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you, who call yourselves
reformed, without some charity: I dare not say (though I know it is our opinion
in general) that you cannot be saved; I will by no means limit the mercy of
Christ so far as think that He cannot receive you into the bosom of His church,
in a manner to us unperceivable ; and I hope you have the same charity for us:
I pray daily for your being all restored to Christ’s church, by whatsoever method
He, who is all-wise, is ,pleased to direct. In the meantime, surely you will allow
it consists with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a
Pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not
think is according to the true faith, and a savage or a ‘barbarian, that knows no
God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the
Catholic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those who
know nothing of God or of His Church: and I rejoice, therefore, when I see this
poor man, who, you say, has been a profiigate, and almost a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully en—
lightened; believing that God, from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly
touch his heart, and bring him to the farther knowledge of that truth in His own
time; and if God shall influence this poor man to convert and instruct the
ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he Shall be cast away himself.
And have I not reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer any are brought to the know-
ledge of Christ, though they may‘not be brought quite home into the bosom of
the Catholic Church just at the time when I may desire it, leaving it to the
goodness of Christ to perfect His work in His own time, and in His own way?
Certainly, I would rejoice if all the savages ‘in America were brought, like this
poor woman, to pray to God, though they were all to be Protestants at rst,
rather than they should continue pagans or heathens; rmly believing that He
that had bestowed the rst light on them would farther illuminate them with a
beam of His heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His Church, when
He should see good.”
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist, as much as
I was oppressed by the power of his ‘reasoning ; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might be all Catholic Christians,
whatever church or particular profession we joined in; that a spirit of charity
would soon work us all up into right principles; and as he thought that the like
charity would make us all Catholics, so I told him I believed, had all the
members of his church the like moderation, they would soon all be Protestants.
And there we left that part; for we never disputed at all. .
However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the hand, “My
friend,” says I, “I wish all the clergy of the Romish Church were blessed with
such moderation, and had an equal share of your charity. I am entirely of your
opinion; but I must tell you, that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or
Italy, they would put you into the Inquisition.” “It may be so," said he; “I
know not what they would do in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would
 
filth Zara if
 
 
a? yr raaaa ,3, 3
a
r Cihriatiaaa tar that aha
 
 
 
We
a th hatta
' hahtlih
it
 
 
writy j; arh a‘ara thara ia ah hara
l
 
 
it”
if?
'lrliialil, aa Wif" ahttl t a ara ghh hat lfiraaihaaa thara hyar, haah aha awa w y; aatii whaa war which haah, ha ha ll’l til tham waitiaya
ta ha aallati ha: hhaaraiag thia, i aaltad my argymaa if wa ahhhld diaaaa ta
him that wa had aaah him hhtiar t‘h haah at that ; arid at waa hia a;
 
 
 
 
 
i ihihtt wa
 
 
aaaald aay
it aaraalaaa, aatl
 
 
ahhahl hat, hat that wa ahaalai tath a
had him ih alhha, aah;
:ltt, him thha 2am
 
 
 
W h at araa yhhr
 
 
hattar mart thaa
hat atha tiititt‘t dial; ha wahltii haaa right: aha "hall, air, it
irratraatiaa, hr ahrraatiaa, liha a haaat
ia trha, halaraarr aaya, “ that aiaayaiaa
 
 
 
 
ti, atlaaatiah,
 
 
vrt if thiayria
 
 
it!’
 
 
milmaf ia hrhtiah.
W A.—--Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I murdered my father: for God's
sake, sir, talk no more about that; sir, I murdered my poor father.
13. C.—-Ha! a murderer!
Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word he spoke) and looked
pale: it seems he believed that Will had really killed his father.
1?. C. —No, no, sir; I do not understand him so: Will Atkins, explain
yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own hands?
I'V. A.-'-No, sir, I did not cut his throat; but I cut the thread of all his
comforts, and‘shortened his days; I broke his heart by the most ungrateful,
unnatural return for the most tender and affectionate treatment that ever father'
gave, or child could receive. -
If. C.-—Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort this confession: I
pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive'that and all your other sins;
but I asked you because I see that though you have not much learning, yet you
are not so ignorant as some are in things that are good; that you have known
more of religion, a great deal, than you have practised.
W A.--—Though you, sir, do not extort the confession that I make about my
father, conscience does; and whenever we come to look back \upon' our lives, the
sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the rst to touch us; the wounds
they make lie deepest, and the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind,
of all the sins we can commit. ' i ‘ .
1?. C.—You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins; I cannot hear it.
W A.--You bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of ' it.
It’. C.—Yes, Atkins’; every shore, every hill, my, I may say every tree in this
island, is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingratitude, to, ‘and bad usage
'of, a good tender father; a father much like yours, by your description: and I
murdered my father as well as you, Will Atkins; but I think, for all that, my re-
pentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.
I would have said more, if I could have restrained my passions; but I thought
this poor man’s repentance was so much sincerer than mine, that I was going to
leave off the discourse and retire; for I was surprised with what he had said, and
thought that instead of my going about‘ to teach and instruct him, the man was
made a teacher and instructor to me .in a most surprising and unexpected
manner.
I laid all this ,before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected with it, and
said to me, “Did I not say, sir, that when this man was converted he would
preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here
will be no need of me I; he will make Christians of all in the island.”---But having
a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins. “But Will,”
said I, “how comes the sense of this matter'to touch you just now?”
W A.--Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart through my
very soul: I have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in order, as
you directed me, to make a Christian of her, and she has preached such a sermon
to me as I shall never forget while I live.
0 UR TALK WITH A TKINS. 3 I 5
1?. C.--No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but when you were
moving religious arguments to her, conscience has ung them back upon you.
l/V. A.--Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.
R. C.--Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife; for I
know something of it already.
W A.—Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I am too full to
hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let her have said what she will,
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can tell you, that I have resolved
to amend and reform my life.
1?. C.—But tell us some of it; how did you begin, Will? for this has been an
extraordinary case, that is certain. She has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
14/’. A.--Why, I rst told her the nature of our laws about marriage, and what
the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter- into such compacts
as it was neither in the power of one nor other to break; that otherwise, order
and justice could not be maintained, and men would run ‘from their wives, and
abandon their children, mix confusedly with one another, and neither families be
kept entire nor inheritances be settled by legal descent.
[6. C.—You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her understand what
you meant by inheritance and families? They know no such things among the
savages, but marry anyhow, without regard to relation, consanguinity, or family;
brother and sister, nay, as I have been told, even the father and the daughter, and
the son and the mother.
PV. A.—I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife assures me of the
contrary,_ and that they abhor it; perhaps, for any farther relations, they may
not be so exact as we are; but she tells me never in the near relationship you
speak of. '
It‘. C.—Well, what did she say to what you told her?
H7. A.—She said she liked it very well, as it was much better than in her
country.
1?. C.--But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A.—Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked her if she would he
married to me our way. She asked me what way that was. I told her ‘marriage
was appointed by God; and here we had a strange talk together, indeed, as ever
man and wife had, I believe.
N.B.—This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took down in writing,
just after he had told it me, which was as follows.
l/Vzfa—Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your country?
I47. A.---Yes, my dear, God is in every country.
Wz''.--—No your God in my country; my countryihave the great old Bena-
muckee God.
IV. A.—Child, I am very unt to show you who'God is; God is in heaven,
and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is.
Wz.-No makee de earth; no you God makee de earth; no makee my country.
3 taatav (Ta ha.
 
 
 
 
 
'paaaalaa af {lad aat ataltlag hat aaaatty.
"why aagh trial hia aathllaj ta laagh.
ltila alaa jaatly aajaraaatl l y hla wilt, fat aha aaa taata rlaaa thaa ha at tiltatr
WI alimdllhati. 'ttaa, iatlaatl; X will hat laugh ‘aay tllt’lt“ , my ti at...
 
 
 
 
Will Atltiaa latghatl a llttla at har a,
Ill/“457 laag l
h p;
 
 
 
 
lwwwm-
 
 
 
 
 
Walllhy, yaa ay yaa taahaa all?
aala, aar tflatl ataaa tha arhala ata ‘ltil, aatl yaa, aatl ma, aatl all
aaly traa tlatl, aatl th ,,,ra la aa lfatl hat; liliaa p; lrla liaaa tar
 
 
 
 
aaat la haavaat
a yaa aa tall alga l
traa, latlaatl; hat I haaa haaa Wltiiltatfl aatl haaa aat
aaly latgattaa ta aaalaalat th, at with aaythlag htftaa, lgalt hava ll‘ all withaat tllatl
la t aarltl tayalf.
haaa yaa graat tlatl ‘ha yaaa aat atty, yaa aa haaa' lliall litla
ta llia (la gala; thiagj fat with? lllhat ha ha alhla
la ttaa, thaah, far all that; wa aa if ttaaa W a 'aa tlltflal la
that hatl aa ha'aar aa aarth.
? Why
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.lat why tillatl lat yaa (la a
V
 
 
aa aaahaa yaa liaa l‘
WILL ATKINS AND HIS WIFE. 317.
WE A.-—-It‘ is all our own fault. .
V/z.--But you say me He is great, much great, have much great power, can
makee kill when He will, why He no makee kill when you no serve Him? No
say Oh! to Him, no be good mans. '
W’. A.—-—That is true, He might strike me dead; and I ought to expect it, for
I have been a wicked'wretch, that is true; but God is merciful, and does not
deal with us as we deserve.
PVzfa—But then you do not tell God thankee for that too?
W. A.—--No, indeed, I have not thanked God for His mercy, any more than
I have feared God for His power.
Wz'e.-Then you God no God; me no think believe He be such one, great
much power strong: no makee kill you, though you make Him much angry.
W. A.--What! will my wicked life hinder you from believing in God? ‘What
a dreadful. creature am I! and what a sad truth is it, that the horrid lives of
Christians hinder the conversion of heathens! "
Wg'fa—How me think you have great much God up there [she points up to
heaven], and yet no do well, no do good thing? Can He tell? Sure He no tell
what you do? ,
W. A.-—Yes, yes, He knows and sees all things; He hears us speak, sees {what
we do, knows what we think, though we do not speak.
H’Zlfh—‘Vhti He no hear you curse, swear, speak de great damn? _ -
W’. A.——Yes, yes, He hears it all. ‘
Wz'z.-—'\Vhere be then the much great power strong?
W A.--He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; and this proves Him to
be the true God; He is God, and not man, and therefore we are not consumed.
Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, ,to think how he could
tell his wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of
the heart, and all that we do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vile thing
he had done. '
I/Vttfam-Mercifull ‘What you call that?
W’. A.-—He is our Father and Maker, and He .pities and spares us.
I/Vzt—So then He never makee kill, never angry when you do wicked; then
He no good Himself, or no great able. '
l/V. A.--Yes, yes, my dear, He is innitely good and innitely great, and able
to punish too; and sometimes, to show His justice and vengeance, He lets y His
anger to destroy sinners and make examples; many are cut off in their sins.
PVzfa—But no makee kill you yet; then He tell you, maybe, that He no makee
you kill: so you makee de bargain with Him, you do bad ‘thing, He no be angry
at you when He be angry at other mans. _
W A.--No, indeed, my sins are all'presumptions upon His goodness; and He
would be innitely just if He destroyed me, as He has done other men.
l/Vz.—-Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you say to Him for
that? You no tell Him thankee for all that too?
WI A.-—I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.
I/Vz.--Why He no makee you much good better? you say He makee you.
W A.—-He made me as He made all the world; it is I have deformed myself,
and abused His goodness and made myself an abominable wretch.
I/Vzfa—I wish you makee God know me. I no makee Him angry—I no do
bad, wicked thing. _ v .
Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hear a poor untaught
creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such a wicked wretch that he
could not say one word to her about God, but what the reproach of his ,own
carriage would make most irrational to her to believe; nay, that already she had
told him that she could not believe in God, because he, that was so wicked, was
not destroyed.
W A.-—My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you to know God, not
God to know you; for He knows you already, and every thought in your heart.
i/Vzfa—Why, then, He know what I say to you now: He know me wish to
know' Him. How shall me know who makee me?
W A.——Poor creature! He must teach thee: I cannot teach thee. I will pray
to Him to teach thee to know Him, and forgive me, that am unworthy to
teach thee. .
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her know
God, and her wishing to know Him, that he said he fell down on his knees before
her, and prayed to vGod to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledge of jesus
Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy instrument
of instructing her in the principles of religion: after which he sat down by her
again, and their dialogue went on. This was the time when we saw him kneel down,
and hold up his hands. -
i/Vifk—What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand for?
What you say? Who you speak to? What is all that?
W A.-——My dear, I bow my knees in token of my submission-to Him that
made me. I said Oh! to Him, as you call it, and as your old men do to their
idol Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to Him.
I/Vz.--What say you Oh! to Him for?
W. A.---I prayed to Him to open your eyes and your understanding, that you
may know Him, and be accepted by Him.
Wzfe.---Can He do that too?
W A.—Yes, He can: He can do all things.
W'zj’a—But now He hear what you say?
W A.—-Yes, He has bid us pray to Him, and promised to hear us.
i/VI'jZt—Bid you pray? When He bid you? _How He bid you? What you
hear Him speak?
W A.—-No, we do not hear Him speak; but He has revealed Himself many
ways to us. ‘
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has revealed
Himself to us by His Word, and what His Word was; but at last he told it her
thus :--—- \
IV. A.—-God has spoken to some good men in former days, even from
heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good men by His Spirit; ‘and
they have written all His laws down in a book.
PVzfe.-—~Me no understand that; where is book? ,
I/V. A.----Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I, shall
one time or other get it for you, and help you to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection, but with inexpressible grief that he
had not a Bible. .
Wife—But how you makee me know that God teachee them to write that
book?
W’. A.---By the same rule that we know Him to be God.
I/Vzfe.-—-What rule? What way you know Him?
W. A.---Because He teaches and commands nothing but what is good,
righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good,-as well .as perfectly
happy; and because He forbids, and commands us to avoid, all that is wicked,
that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.
Wg'f'a—That me would understand, that me fain see; if He teachee all good
thing, He makee all good thing, He give all thing, He hear me when I say Oh!
to Him, as you do just now; He makee me good, if I wish to be good; He
spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good: all this you say He do, yet
He be great God: me take, think, believe Him to be great God: me say Oh!
to him with you, my dear.
Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up, made her
kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge of
Himself, by His Spirit; and that by some good providence, if possible, she
might, some time or other, come to have a Bible, that she might read the Word
of God, and be taught by it to know Him. This was the time that we saw
him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to be set .
down here; and particularly, she made him promise that, since he confessed his
own life had been a wicked, abominable course of provocations against God, that
he would reform it, and not make God, angry any more, lest He should make
him dead, as she called it, and then she would be left alone, and never be
taught to know this God better; and lest he should be miserable, as he had
told her wicked men would be, after death.
This was a. strange account, and very affecting to us both, but particularly to
the young clergyman; he was, indeed, wonderfully surprised with it, but under the
greatest affliction imaginable that he could not talk to her, that he could not speak
English, to make her understand him; and as she spoke but very broken English,
he‘ could not understand her; however, he turned himself to me, and told me that
he believed that there must be more to do with this woman than to marry her. I
did not understand him at rst; but at length he explained himself, viz., that she
Ought to be baptised.) I agreed with him in that part readily, and wished it to be
done presently. “No, no; hold, sir,” said he: “though I would have her be
baptised, by all means, for I must observe that Will Atkins, her husband, has
indeed brought her, in a wonderful _ manner, to be willing to embrace a religious
life, and has given her just ideas of the being of a God, of His power, justice,
and mercy; yet I desire to know of him if he has said anything to her of Jesus
Christ, and of the salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in Him, and re-
demption by Him; of the ‘Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and
the future state.”
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the Poor fellow fell immediately
into tears, and told us he had said something to her of all those things, but that
he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own conscience so reproached him
with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the apprehensions that her know-
ledge of him should lessen the attention she should give to those things, and make
her rather contemn religion than receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those things, and that if I
would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction that
my labour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between my
religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to begin with her; but sure such
a sermon was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter ages of the world;
and, as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sin-
cerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman Catholic; and that I took him
to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were before the church of Rome
assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men. In a word, he brought
the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by Him,
not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the rst notions of a God, but
with joy and faith; with an affection, and a surprising degree of understanding,
scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and, at her own request, she
.was baptised.
When he was preparing to baptise her I entreated him that he would perform
that ofce with some caution, that the man might not perceive he was of the
Roman Church, if possible, because of other ill consequences which might attend a
difference among us in that very religion which we were instructing the other in.
He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper things for the ofce,
.I should see he would do it in a manner that I should not know by it that he
was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before; and so he did;'for
saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand,
he poured a whole dishful of water upon the woman’s head, pronouncing in French,
very loud, “Mary (which was the name her husband desired me to give her, for
I was her godfather), I baptise thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost;” so that none could know anything by it what religion
he was of. He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin, but either Will Atkins
did not know but it was French, or else did not take noticelof it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the marriage was over,
he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him, not
hhiy ta haraaaara ht that ghhd diayiraaitihh ha ih, hat ta aapphrt tha aahyiatiaaa
that "at-Para apart hiaa hy a raahlhtidh ta rathrth hia tita; raid him it waa ih yaih ta
aay rapahtad it“ ha did hat faraalta hia arhhaa: rapraaaatad ta haw Ciad
had hhhhhrad him with haihg” tha iaatrarhaht hf hrihgjihg with ta tha hhhwladga
at tjihtiatiah raligiah, aad that ha ahahld ha aarafhl ha ahauld hat diahdhaar
tha hf {dad ,1; add that if ha did, ha whirled tha haathah a hattar Chriatiah
than hhhaalf ; tha aaaaga aaaaartad,
add tha ihatthmarit Ida
aaid a gtaat marry gadd thhtga ta
tharh hhtlft ; ‘ti‘ttfttt, taathd
atahdiha; thath ta tilhria gahdhaaa,
thaht Tilt“ "it h a ‘a
i rapttatihg ayarythihg' ta thaat ih
add thaa aatilad tha
aaramahy, I thihlt it waa rahat hlaaaaht arid ahla day ta ma that atar
ll yataaad id at lifa.
idht thy alatgy; 1, hat daha yat : hia thahgihta
hahg hahtihhaiiy had that
 
 
 
 
aahaaraihh hf tha thh
aaaah aaaagaa, faih
ha ahhld hphh tha ia'lahd ta haaa
aadartahaa it; hat I add
ttihaad him, that, that hia
tthdartalti waa tiaahla ht itaalf arid,
aaaaadly, that parhapa I waald pat it ihta way at haiag daha ih hia ahaaaaa ta
htia aatiaihatihh,
iriaaiag thaa hraaght tha ad'aira hf tha iatahd td a aarrhw ahhapaaa, waa dram
pariah; ta gar ah haard tha ahip, whah tha yaaag mart had tahaa that at ‘ tha
fataiahad ahip’a ahmhaay aaraa ta aha, aad ttdifi ha ahdarataad is a draw with ma, arid that I had aaaaad tha liiihggliahtaaa ta ha marriad ta tha aayagaa;
that ha had matah that, whiah ha daairad might ha tihiahad hathra I what, hatwaah
twa Chriatiaha, whitish ha hhpad waald that ha diaagraaahta ta
I khaw thia thaat ha tha yhahg whrahh with hia rhhthar’a aaraaht, far thara
Waa hahthar Qiltihiitttt waarah ah tha ialahd; ah it ta haraaada him hat ta
dd aaythhrg at that triad raahly, at haaaaaa ha fhahd himaalf ia thia aalitary aria
aamatahaa rapraaaatad ta him that ha had ahrha ahaaidarahia aahatahaa ha tha
whrld, aad gaad friahda, aa 1. aadarathad hy hhaaalti, aad tha maid alaa that tha
maid waa hat aaly tartar, arid aaryaht, hat araa aaaaaal ta him, aha haihg aia at
at
, aaaaa at (a, grad.
 
 
seven and twenty years old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he
might very probably, with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, and
come into his own country again; and that then it would be a thousand to one ‘
but he would repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance might be dis-
advantageous to both. I was going to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling,
and told me, with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses; that he
had nothing of that kind in his thoughts; and he was very glad to hear that I
had an intent of putting them in a way to see their own country again; and
nothing should have made him think of staying there, but that the voyage I was
going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the
reach of all his friends; that he had nothing to desire of me, but that I would
settle him in some little property in the island where he was, give him a servant
or two, and some few necessaries, and he would live here like a planter, waiting
the good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would redeem him; and
hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came to England: that he would
give me some letters to his friends in London, to let them know how good I had
been to him, and in what part of the world, and what circumstances I had left
him in: and he promised me that whenever I redeemed him, the plantation, and
all the improvements he had made upon ‘it, let the value be what it would, should
be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and was the
more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match was not for him-
self. I gave him all possible assurances that if I lived to come safe to England,
I would deliver his letters, and do his business effectually; and that he might
depend I should never forget the circumstances I had left him in; but still I was
impatient to know who was the person’ to be married; upon which he told me it
was my Iack-of-all-trades and his maid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised
when he named the match; for, indeed, I thought it very suitable. The character
of that man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest,
modest, sober, and religious young woman; had a very good share of sense, was
agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the purpose, always
with decency and good manners, and was neither too backward to speak when
requisite, nor impertinently forward when it was not her business; very handy and
housewifely, and an excellent manager; t, indeed, to have been governess to the
whole island; and she knew very well how to behave in every respect.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the same day;
and as I was father at the altar, and gave her away, so I gave her a portion;
for I appointed her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for their
plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the proposal the young gentleman made
to give him a small property in the" island, put me upon parcelling it out
amongst them, that they might not quarrel afterwards about their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who was now grown
a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed, exceedingly pious and religious;
and, as far as I may be allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily
CONVERTING THE 5.4 VA OES. 3 2 3
believe he was a true penitent. He divided things so justly, and so much to
every one’s satisfaction, that they only desired one general writing under my hand
for the whole, which I'caused to be drawn up and signed and sealed, setting out the
bounds and situation of every man’s plantation, and testifying. that I gave them
thereby severally a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the respective
plantations or farms, with their improvements, to them and their heirs, reserving
all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every
particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in my name,
came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the same writing.
As to the government and laws among them, I told them I was not capable
of giving them better rules than they were able to give themselves; only I made
them promise me to live in love and good neighbourhood with one another; and
so I prepared to leave ‘them.
One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now ‘settled in a kind of
commonwealth among themselves, and having much business in hand, it was odd
to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of the island independent, and,
indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the providing themselves with food, which
they had difficulty enough to do, sometimes, they had no manner of business or
property to manage. I proposed, therefore, to the governor Spaniard, that he
should go to them with Friday’s father, and propose to them to remove, and‘
either plant for themselves, or be taken into their several families as servants,
to be maintained for their labour, but without being absolute slaves; for I would
not permit them to make them slaves by force, by any'means; because they had
their liberty given them by Capitulation, as it were articles of surrender, which
they ought not to break. .
They mo'st willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very cheerfully along
with him: so we allotted them land and plantations, which three or four accepted
of, but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the several families we
had settled; and thus my colony was in a manner settled as follows :—The
Spaniards possessed my original habitation, which was the capital city, and
extended their plantations all along the side of the brook, which made the creek
that I have so often described, as far as my bower; and as they increased their
culture, it went always eastward- The English lived in the north-east part, where
Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on southward and south-west,
towards the back part of the Spaniards; and every- plantation had a great
addition of land to take in, if they found' occasion, so that they need not jostle
one another for want of room. All the east end of the island was left unin-
habited, that if any of the savages should come on shore there only for their
usual customary barbarities, they might come and go; if they disturbed nobody,
nobody would disturb them; and no doubt but tney were often ashore, and went
away again, for I never heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed
any more. '
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend the clergyman
that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set on foot in his
3; 2a., [llaaraaaaw Ca
ta aatlal‘aatlaa, ahtl l talal hlta haw l thaaght that waa that ha
at aa aw that aaaagaa, halagf ltltl tllaitlatl aalahg tha Christiana, thay
waaltl tart aha at thaaa tla tha part with thaaa whitzh ahtilar their
haatla, ll hatwtl it wright haya a awry ‘tltltll
fl”
Illa hraaaatly la that, if that thalr hart. W hat haw,” a ha,
hlaa waaltl hall thaat all tagathar,
it
it
 
 
Mahall wa hhtala that at them It” tal
 
H wa ataaataw awaw awa llh‘r" ” aaal.
aatl lt la. aharga with thaal, at gal ta thaaa, aha lily aha, whlah ha thaagfht
haat; wa tillaltlatl ltweha ta ahaah ta the: wha wara all aatl
l ta ta tha wha ware all hrataataata f; and wa raaarataaatlatl lt
ta thata, aatl alatla thath jaraaalaa that thay waaltl haaat aay
alatlaatlaa hf llahlat at lltataataat "Ea thalr aahartlahf tha aaaagaa ta lath tltwiatlaaa,
hat taaah thaaa tha gaaatal hhawlatlga at" tha traa lllatl, “aatl at thalr llaalaar
jaaaa ahtl thay llkawlaa hramiaatl aa that thay waahl aaaar ahy
tllflhraaaaa at tllaaataa aha with ahathat ahaat tallglah.
Whaa aaaaa ta Will Alltltltlih haaaa ("pl hall it aa, far aaah a haaaa, at
aaah a hiaaa at haalratmwarlr, l hallaaa waa hat ataatllaa la tha warld agalal, thara
M
l faaatl tha wamah haaa ataat'laaatl ahaaa aha ll’lll htltlaa’a with wara
haaaata aatl thla hraaaat, raligflaaa yaaag waalaa haa harfaatatl tha
"I. i _ r
A PRESENT T0 WILL A TKINS. 3 2 5-
work Will Atkins had begun; and though it was not above four days after what
I have related, yet the new-baptised savage woman was made such a Christian as
I have seldom heard of in all my observation or conversation in the world.
It came next into my mind in the morning before I went to them, that
amongst all the needful things I had to leave with them, I had not left them a
Bible, in which I showed myself less considering for them than my good friend
the widow was for me when she sent me the cargo of a hundred pounds from
Lisbon, where‘ she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-book. However, the
good woman’s charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined, for _they were
reserved for the comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done. ‘
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Will Atkins’s
tent, or house, and found the young woman and Atkins’s baptised wife had been
discoursing of religion together—for Will Atkins told it me‘with a great deal of
joy--I asked if they were together now, and he said, yes; so I went into the
house and he with me, and we found them together very earnest in discourse.
“Oh, sir,” says Will Atkins, “when God has sinners to reconcile to Himself, and
aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger; my wife has got a new
instructor: I knew I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work; that young
_woman has been sent hither from heaven; she is enough to convert a whole
island of savages.” The young woman blushed, and rose up to go ‘away, but I
desired her to sit still; I told her she had a good work upon her hands, and I
hoped God would bless her in it. ' .
We talked a little, and I did not perceive that they had any book among
them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled out
my Bible. “Here,’_’ said I to Atkins, “I have brought you an assistant that
perhaps you had not before.” The man was so confounded, that he was not
able to speak for some time; but recovering himself, he takes it with both his
hands, and turning to his wife, “Here, my dear,” says he, “did I not tell you
our God, though He lives above, could hear what we have said? Here’s the
book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down under the bush; now God has
heard us, and sent it.” When he had said so, the man fell into such transports
of passionate joy, that between the joy of having it, and giving God thanks for
it, the tears ran down his face like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake that none
of us were aware of, for she rmly believed God had sent the book upon her
husband's petition. ' _It is true that providentially it was so, and might be taken
so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would have been no difiicult matter at
that time to have persuaded the poor woman to have believed that an express
messenger came from Heaven on purpose to bring that individual book; but it
was too serious a matter to suffer any delusion to take place, so I turned to the
young woman, and told her we did not desire to impose upon the new convert in
her rst and more ignorant understanding of things, and begged her to explain to
her that God may be very properly said to answer our petitions, when, in the
course of His providence, such things are in a particular manner brought to pass
as we petitioned for: but we did not expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous
and particular manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards effectually, so that there was, I assure
you, no priestcraft used here; and I should have thought it one of the most
unjustiable frauds in the world to have had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will
Atkins is really not to be expressed; and there we may be sure was no delusion.
Sure no man was ever more thankful in. the world for anything of its kind than
he was for the Bible; nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible from a
better 'principle; and though he had been a most profligate creature, headstrong,
furious, and desperately wicked, yet this -man is a standing rule to us all for the
well instructing children, viz., that parents should never give over to teach and
instruct, nor ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let the children be
ever so refractory, or, to appearance, insensible to instruction; for, if ever God,
in His providence, touches the conscience of such, the force of their education
returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost, though it may
have been many years laid asleep, but some time or other they may nd the
benet of it. Thus it was with this poor man: however ignorant he was of
religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had some tO- do with now more
ignorant than himself, and that the least part of the instruction of his good father
that now came to his mind was of use to him.
Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to insist so
much on the inexpressible value of the Bible, and the privilege and blessing of
it to nations, families, and persons; but he never entertained the least notion of
the worth of it till now, when being to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians,
he wanted’ the help of the written oracle for his assistance.
The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion, though she
had one and so had the youth, on board our ship, among their goods, which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so many things of this young
woman, I cannot omit telling one story more of her and myself, which has some-
thing in it very instructive and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced,—how
her mistress was starved to death, and died on board that unhappy ship we met
at sea, and how the ship’s company were reduced to the last extremity. The
gentlewoman, and her son, and this maid, were rst hardly used as to provisions,
and at last totally neglected and starved—that is to say, brought to the last
extremity of hunger. One day, being discoursing with her on the extremities they
suffered, I asked her if she could describe, by what she had felt, what it was to
starve, and how it appeared. She told me she believed she could, and she told
her .tale very distinctly thus :—
“First, sir,” said she, “we had for some days fared exceeding hard, and suffered
very great hunger; but at last- we were wholly without food of any kind, except
sugar, and a little wine-and-water. The rst day after I had received ‘no food at
all, I found myself, towards evening, rst empty and sick at the stomach, and
p
T HE YO UNG W OMAN 'S S TOR Y. 3 2 7‘
nearer night much inclined to yawning and sleep. I lay down on the couch in the’
great cabin to sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little refreshed,
having taken a glass of wine when I lay down; after being about three hours
awake, it being about ve o’clock in the morning, I found myself empty, and my
stomach sickish, and lay down again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint
and ill; and thus I continued all the second day with a strange variety—rst
hungry, then sick again, with retchings to vomit. The second night, being obliged
to go to bed again without any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and
being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was mightily
stocked. with provisions, —-that I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined
very heartily. I thought my stomach was as full after this as it would have been
after a good dinner; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits,
to nd myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of wine we had I
drank, and put sugar in it, because of its having some spirit to supply nourish‘
ment, but there being no substance in the stomach for the digesting oice to
work upon, I found the only effect of the wine was to raise disagreeable fumes
from the stomach into the head; and I lay, as they told me, 'stupid and senseless,
as one drunk, for some time. The third day, in the morning, after a night ‘of
strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams, .and rather dozing than sleeping, I
awaked ravenous and furious with hunger: and I question, had not my under-
standing returned and conquered it, whether, if I had 'been a mother, and had
had a little child with me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted
about three hours, during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature in
Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as he can now inform you.
“In ‘one of those ts of lunacy or distraction I fell down and struck my face
against the corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay, and with the blow
the blood gushed out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin,
I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the blood came from me, I
came to myself, and the violence ‘of the ame or fever I was in abated, and so
did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I grew sick, and retched to vomit,
but could not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up.
“After I had bled some time I swooned, and they all believed I was dead;
but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my
stomach not to be described—“not like the colic, but a gnawing, eager pain for
food; and towards night it went off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for
food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with child. I took
another draught of water with sugar in it; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and
brought it all up again; then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that
stayed with me; and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most heartily that it
would please God to take me away; and composing my mind in hopes of it
I slumbered awhile, and then waking, thought myself dying, being light with
vapours from an empty stomach. I recommended my soul then to God, and
earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the .sea. '
“ All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but bore
it with much more patience than I,-—gave the last bit of bread she had left to
her child, my young master, who would not have taken it, but she obliged him to
eat it; and I believe it saved his life. i ' ' '
“Towards the morning I slept again; and when I awoke I fell into a violent
passion of crying, and after that had’ a second t of violent hunger. I got up
ravenous, and in a most dreadful condition; had my mistress been dead, as much
as I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a piece of her esh with as
much relish and as unconcerned as ever I did eat the esh of any creature.
appointed for food; and once or twice I was going to bite my own arm. At
last I saw the basin in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day
before: I ran to ‘it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a greedy appetite,
as if I wondered that nobody had taken it before, and afraid it should be taken
from me now. After it was down, though the thoughts of it lled me with horror,
yet it checked the t of hunger, and I took ‘another draught of water, and was
composed and refreshed for some hours after. This was the fourth day; and thus
I kept up till towards night, when, within the compass of three hours, I had all
the several circumstances over again .one after another, viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly
hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick, then lunatic, then
crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour, and my Strength
wasted exceedingly; at night I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope
that I should die before morning.
“All this night I had no sleep; but the hunger was now turned into’ a
disease; and I had a terrible colic and griping, by wind, instead of food, having
found its way into the bowels; and in this condition I lay till morning, when. 1
was surprised by the cries and lamentations of my young master, who called out
to me that his mother was dead, I lifted myself up a little, for I had not strength
to ‘rise, but found she was not dead, though she was able to give very little signs
of life.
I “I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some sustenance,
as I cannot describe; with such'frequent throes and pangs of appetite, as nothing
but the tortures of death can imitate; and in this condition I was when I heard
the seamen above cry out, ‘A sail! a sail!’ and halloo and jump about as if '
they were distracted.
“I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much less; and my
young master was so-sick that I thought he had been expiring; so we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that occasioned such confusion;
nor had we had any conversation with the ship’s company for two days, they having
told us that they had not a mouthful of anything to eat in the ship; and this they
told us afterwards,--they thought we had been dead. It was this dreadful
condition we were in when you were sent to save our lives; and how you found
us, sir, ,you know as well as I, and better' too.” _ '
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of -starving to death
as, I confess, I never met with, and was exceedingly entertaining to me. I am‘
the rather apt' to believe it to be a true account, because the youth gave me an
 
 
 
Yiss ‘s as" ssssszs. as
sssssst si s gssti past sf it titssgh i sisst ssrs, sst ss sistisst sstfi ss f siisg
ss tits maid ; ssti tits rsthtr, iissssss it ssstss itiii sistiist isti sits st tits ptiss sit
iist sits iiis: hst pssr sisiti, tiissgh hst sssstitstiss issisg sttssgst than tit t
sf list tsisttss. , sits ass is ysst", sad s ts'sskly s smss tss, sits tsigist ttsggis
iisttist with it t I say, tits pssr msiti stigiit tis ssppsssti ts issi this ssttsmity
ssststiiisg ssssst thss iisr siisttsss, sits might his siisssti ts itssp tits isst iiit
 
 
 
 
 
It :iisss ssssss't sstt its sssrstsss is. gag}.
sstssthisg lssgss than sits psttsti with, any ts tsiisss tits maid. its tissstiss, ss
tits sass is hsts tsiststi, if sst sitip, st ssms sthst, its. inst ss titssitisstisiiy mst
iittim, s isw tihys msts Wttttiti iisss stttisti sii thsit iis‘ss, ssisss tiisy issti ptsssstssi
it tiy sstisg sss ssstiist; ssri tiist ssss, as tlisir ssss stssd, ‘Wmiiti issss sstssti
thsfs mt s iittis shits, sissy hsing tiss iisstitsd lssgsss tram arty lsi'iid st stty
 
 
 
ssssiisiiity si' tsiisi, stiist ttsis is tits ttitssslsss sissrist it lispssssti: last this is
is tits stays tstsss, ts tiistissitiss sf thisgs stsssg tits tisspis.
Ami first, it is ts siisstssti it is, that fist tasty tssssss tiiti sst tiiisk is
1t tiisttt it'iss sttytiiisg st tits slssp i has ftsmsti, ssti isiitislit i tltssgiit st‘
tsp srsssg thsst; ist isssti, t issst st my first ssmisg, sash ssstis st"
iss sit sssssg tit m, that plalisiy, iisti its sissp, asti istt
 
 
 
 
 
among them, they would, upon every light disgust, have separated, and gone away
from one another; or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a den
of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended it;
nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two
quarter-deck guns that my nephew took extraordinary, for the same reason: I
thought it was enough to qualify them for a defensive war against any that should .
' invade them, but not to set them up for an offensive war, or to go abroad, to
attack others; which, in the end, would only‘ bring ruin and destruction upon
them: I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way,
as I shall observe in its place. '
Having now-done with the island, I left them all in good circumstances, and
in a ourishing condition, and went on board my ship again on the 6th of May,
‘having been about twenty-ve days among them; and as they were all resolved
to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised to send them
farther relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly nd an opportunity; and
particularly I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows.
As to the two cows and calves which I brought from England, we had‘ been
obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed
them.
The next day, giving them a salute of ve guns at parting, we set sail, and
arrived at the bay of All Saints in the Brazils in about twenty-two days, meeting
nothing remarkable in our passage but this: that about three days after we had
sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as
it were, into a bay, or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of
our course, and once or twice our men cried out, “Land to the eastward!” but
whether it was the continent or islands we could not tell by any means. But the
third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the
sea, as it were, covered towards the land with something very black; not being
able to discover what it was, till after some time, our chief mate, going up the
mainshrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out it was
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and thwarted him a
little hastily. “Nay, sir,” says he, “don’t be angry, for ‘tis an army, and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are coming towards us apace.”
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew, the captain; for
he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island, and having never been
in those seas before, that he could not tell what to think of it, but said, two or
three times, .we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering we were be-
calmed, and the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse;
however, I bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon as
we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards‘ us; so I gave
orders to come to an anchor and furl all our sails. As for the savages, I told
them they had nothing to fear but re, and therefore they should get their boats
DEATH OF FRIOAV. 331
out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the stern, and .
man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men
in the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any re these
savages might endeavour to x to the outside of the ship.
I In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with
us ; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians: though my mate was
much mistaken in his calculation of their number, yet when they came up we
reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six; some of them-had sixteen or seventeen
men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven. 4
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with woitder and
‘astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never seen before; ."nor could
they at rst, as we afterwards understood, know what to make of us; they came
boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us;
bttt we called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought‘us to an engagement with them, without our designing it;
for ve or six ‘of the large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to keep them back, which they understood very well,
and went back; 'but at their retreat about fty arrows came on board us from‘
those boats, and one of our men in the long~boat was very much wounded.
However, I called ‘to them not to re by any means; but we handed down some
deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence,
like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if they should
shoot again. "
About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern of us, and
so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design; and I easily found they were some of my old friends, the same
sort of savages that I had been used ‘to engage with; and in a short time more
they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came directly broadside with us,
and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near that they could
hear us speak; upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should
shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but being so near as to
be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to
them in his language, to know what they meant; which accordingly he did.
Whether they understood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost or nighest boat to us,
turned their canoes from us, and stooping down, showed us their naké‘d backs;
whether this was a deance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was done in
mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest: but immediately Friday cried out they
were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him, poor fellow, they let fly about three
hundred of their arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no
other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with ho less than
"three arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky marksrnen
they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and companion, that I
It"
‘It
liaatatllataly attlatatl tiara gaaa ta ha laatlatl with ahat, that gtaat,
aatl gaya thath attah htaat‘laitla thirty aayat haattl la thalt llyaa hathta, ta
ha aata. watt: hat ahaya a aahlala laagth all" whaa wa htarl 7; aatl hat
gaaaata that; thaw aha ah wall, that thtaa at that at thalr aaaaaa wata ayataat, wa hatl taaaaa ta hallaya, lily aria ahat aaly.
“'lfiha ill ataaaata at tatalag thaw hath hatzka ‘ta ha aa aa atlhnha;
aalthat tilltl l ltaaw tat aattala whathat that whiah wattltl haaa tar tha graataat
aaataatat amaag aa alight ha aadatataatl aa hy thata at hat; tharafara, in tatara,
l ahly taaalyatl ta haaa that at haa gaha at thawt with haaatay may,
a
9M
atatwa awaat a tltt atya t yyat,
Iwhlah l haaw waaltl ftigfhtaa aafhaiaatly : hat whaa thay ahat at aa ,giltaatly
with all tha fatty thay wara tt'ytilhlllltt at”; aatl aayaaially thay hatl ltlllatl my what
liltltlay, whaat aa aatltaly lava aatl yalttatl, and wha, iatlaatl, aa wall tlaaataatl
ill l thwttyght tttyaalf hat aaly jaatlhahla hafata aatl taaa, hat waah'l haaa
haaa wary glad it atlalti haya ayaraat ayaty aahaa thata, aarl tltawhatl ayaty aha
at", thatw.
l aaa aalthat tall haw maay wa ltlllatl hat haw ataay waatwlad at thla
htaatlaltla, hat aara aaah anti harry aayar ataaag attah taatlw
tltatlt; thata wata thlttaaa at taartaaa at thalt aaaaaa ahllt aatl twaraat la all,
aad aaaa all aat amawlatatiag: that that, ttlghtatwtl tart at thalt with, away aa :faat thay traahl, hat llttla aata ta aatw thaaa whaaa wara
atyllt at apallatl with war 3; aa aahyaaa away at thata wara laat aatl
hat taaa taalt ah aha haar lallaw awlatatlag tat hla llfa, altlaya aa haat altar thay
all ghaa. . 1 a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
415st” Ttt'ttsi
 
 
it iiilii’iiiiiiiii'iii.”
.11
 
 
 
UNDER SAIL AGAIN. 333
The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great many;
but, in short, we never knew how it went with them, for they fled so fast that, in
three hours or thereabouts, we could not see above three or four straggling
canoes, nor did we ever see the rest ’any more; for a breeze of wind springing
up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he would
neither eat or speak, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death: but I
took a way to cure him; for I made them take him and turn him into the long-
boat, and make him believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave
him where they found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came away from him; and then he
followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to- them in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said; however, at last, they took, him in
again, and then he began to be more tractable: nor did I ever design they
should drown him.
We were now under sail again, but I was the most disconsolate creature alive
for want of my man Friday, and would have been very glad to have gone back
to the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion, but it
could not he: so we went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was
a long time before we could make him understand anything; but, in time, our
men taught him some English, and he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards,
we inquired what country he came from, but could make nothing of what he said;
for his speech was so odd, all gutterals, and he spoke in the throat in such a
hollow, odd manner, that we could never form a word after him; and we were
all of opinion that they might speak that language as well if they were gagged as
otherwise‘; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth,
tongue, lips, or palate, but formed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune
with an open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we' had taught
him to speak a little English, that they were going with their kings to ght a
great battle. When he said kings, we asked him 'how many kings. He said they
were ve nation (we could not make him understand the plural S), and that they
all joined to go against two nation. We asked him what made them coine up to
us. He said, “ To makee te great wonder look.” Here it is to be observed, that
all those natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn English, always add two-
e’s at the end of the words where we use one; and they place the accent upon
them, as makee, takée, and the like; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it
off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave of
.him. Poor honest Friday! We buried him with all the decency and solemnity
possible, by putting him into a coin, and throwing him into the sea; and I
caused them to re eleven guns for him; and so ended the life of the most
grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about twelve days’
time we made land, in the latitude of ve degrees south of the line, being the
north-easternmost land of all that part of America. We kept on S. by 'E., in
sight of the shore four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three
days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.
Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had, and yet it
was with great difculty that we were admitted to hold the least correspondence
on shore: not my partner himself, who was alive, and made a great gure among
them; not my two merchant~trustees ; not the fame of my wonderful preservation
'in the island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner, remembering that I
had given ve hundred moidores to the Prior of the Monastery of the Augustines
and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery, and
obliged the prior that then was to go to the governor, and get leave for me
personally, with the captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on
shore, and no more; and this upon. condition, absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away
without licence. They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that it was
with extreme difculty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such as
ne broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had brought for a present to my.
partner.
He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, he began with
little at rst; and though he knew not that I had the least design of giving him
anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweet-
meats, worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four
ne niedals of gold: but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have
said, consisted of ne broadcloth, English stuffs, lace, and ne Hollands; also, I
delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods,
for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with
me from'England, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the
refreshments I intended to my plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and nished the sloop in a very few days, for she
was already framed; and I gave\ the master of her such instructions that he
could not miss the place; nor did he, as I had an account from my partner
afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one
of our seamen, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a
sufcient quantity of land for a plantation, and giving him some clothes and/tools’
for his planting work, which he said he understood, having been an old planter at
Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the fellow by granting
all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken
prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him
his share of everything he wanted with the rest.
When we came to t this man out, my old partner told me there was a
certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who had fallen
into the displeasure of the church. “I know not what the matter is with him,"
says he, “but, on my conscience, I think he is a heretic in his heart, and he has
been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition ;” that he would 'be
very glad of such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters; and if ‘I would let them go to my island, and allot them a plantation,
he would give them a small stock to begin with—for the oicers of the Inquisi-
tion had seized all his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a little
household stuff, and two slaves. “And,” adds he, “though I hate his principles,
yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for he will be assuredly burned
alive if he does.” '
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them; and we
concealed the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the sloop
put out to go to sea; and then, having put all their goods on board some time
before, we put them on board the sloop after she was got out of the bay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their stocks,
indeed, were much alike, rich in tools, in preparations, and a farm-“but nothing
to begin with, except as above: however, they carried over with them what
was worth all the rest, some materials for planting sugar~canes, with some plants
of canes, which he—I mean the Portugal mam-understood very well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I sent them
by the sloop three milch cows and ve calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a. stonehorse. For my Spaniards,
according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go, and recom-
mended it to them to marry them and use them kindly. I could have procured
more women, but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters,
and that there were but ve of the Spaniards that wanted—the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country. _
All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very welcome
to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, between sixty and seventy
people, besides little children, of which there were a great many. I found letters '
at London from them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, of
which I shall also take some notice immediately.
I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse about it: and
whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do well to. turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by
his own harms, much less by those of other men, to beware: not cooled by
almost forty years’ miseries and disappointments; not satised with prosperity
beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions and distress beyond imitation.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man at full liberty
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate and desire him to lock him up among the
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England, and
gone directly to. the island; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all
the necessaries for the plantation, and for my people; taken a patent from the
.i " Government here to have secured my property in subjection only to that of
England; had I carried over cannon and ammunition, servants and people to
it
esrswew tfertres.
"plant, sari taken pessessiee ef the erase, tertitierii seed streegjtheeerl it is the same
ei Iiiiiiegiaerl, aeti it with treeple, i wright easiiy hare rierte; I
iiiti‘tt myself there, and seat titre ship hash with ghee rise, freight
hare rieee fie reeetlrs’ tiete, aerl ertiereri my frieecis te hare titted her eet
agate set her sehteypmlrsrl If this, see stayeri there myseii”, at least
reae ef eereetee sense:
, hat i was er wandering
seirit, tftttti seereeri all sdraetages: i
with the patree ef
peehle hissed there, and eeieg
fer ef haeghty, teajestie
way, art eirl
patriareiital eteesreh,
presiding fer them
if hart heee
father ef the
 
 
the triatrtatiee: het
e re eeh as
hretereiletl tie reset
in the er arty
,fterereteeet er eatiee,
er te any he re eali
wry steeple sehieets
te any eee eatiee
thee whether:
hay, ll newer se tetteh
as gare raises a
same, her left it as
I thread. it, heieegieg
attests sees retest” t te eehedy, the
peeple street he
eipliee er gererea
meet her my ewe; whe, theegh I had ,ietieeeee erer there as a father sari
lireeefaeter, had we aetherity er pewter re set at eetereaeri eee way at ether,
farther thee reieetary eeeseet teereri there re eerepiy; yet eree this, had i
stayed there, wettld hare deee welt erteeghr hat as rsrehled freer there aeti
same there he reere, the last letters ,1 had, freer hi there were hy wry
erases, whey afterwards sent aeether sleee re the piaee, arid whe seer
tee were, I hart. net letter till I get te iseetiee, sereral years
after it was writtee, that they went hat pestle; were riiseeeteet with their ieeg'
M40
stay there t that ill rarities was dead; that fire er hpaeiards were eetee
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROUNOINO TEE CARE. 337
away; and though they had not been much molested by the savages, yet they had‘
had some skirmishes with them; and that they begged of him to write to me to
think of the promise I had made to fetch themaway, that they might see ‘their
country again before they died.
But I was gone a wildgoose chase indeed! and they that will have any more
of me must be content to follow me into a new variety of follies, hardships, and
wild adventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be duly observed; and we
may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, make the
strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and punish us most severely with those
very things which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be allowed in.
Whether I had business or no business, away I went: it is no time now to enlarge
upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct, but to come to the history—I
was embarked for the Ivoyage, and the voyage I went. -
I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest Popish clergyman; for
let their opinions of us, and all other heretics in general, as they‘ call us, be as
uncharitable as it may, I verily believe this man was very sincere, and wished the
good of all men: yet I believe he was upon the reserve in many of his expressions,
to prevent giving me offence; for I scarce heard him once call on the Blessed
Virgin, or mention St. Jago, or his guardian angel, though so common with the
rest of them; however, I say, I had not the least doubt of his sincerity and pious
intentions; and I am rmly of opinion, if the rest of the Popish missionaries were
like him, they would strive to visit even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, where
they have nothing to give them, as well as covet to flock to India, Persia, China,
&c., the most wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they expected to bring no
gains to their church by it, it may well be admired how they came to admit the
Chinese Confucius into the calendar of the Christian saints.
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked me leave to go
thither; being still, as he observed, bound never to nish any voyage he began.
How happy it had been for me if I had gone with him! But it was too late
now: all things Heaven appoints for the best: had I gone ‘with him, I had never
had so many things to be-thankful for, and the reader had never heard of the
second part of the travels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must here
leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage. From the Brazils, we
made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a
tolerably good voyage, our course generally southeast, now and then a storm, and
some contrary winds: but my disasters at sea were at an end,—my future rubs
and cross events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board, who was
to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being limited to a
certain number of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several ports she was to
go to. This was none of my business, neither did I meddle with it; my nephew,
the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things between them as they
thought t. '
29-
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh water,
but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel. We were, indeed,
info."n:cd that a French man-of-war, of fty guns, and two large merchant ships,
were gone for the Indies; and as I knew we were at war with France, I had
some apprehensions of them; but they went their own way, and we heard no
more of them.
I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places, journals of
our voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, trade-winds, &c.; it is enough to
name the ports and places which we touched at, and what occurred to us upon our
passage from one to another. We touched rst at the' island of Madagascar,
where, though the people are erce and treacherous, and very well armed with
lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very
well with them awhile; they treated us very civilly; and for some trifles which we
gave them, such as knives, scissors, &c., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks,
of a middling size, which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship’s use.
We were obliged to stay here some time after we had furnished ourselves with
provisions; and I, who was always too curious to look into every nook of the
world wherever I came, went on shore as often as I could. It was on the east
side of the island that we went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at
a distance; but as we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly used,
we thought ourselves in no danger. When we saw the people, we out three
boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance from us; which, it seems,
is a mark in that country, not only of a truce and friendship, but when it is
accepted, the other side set up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they
accept the truce, too; but then this is a known condition of the truce, that you
are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they to come past
your three poles, or boughs, towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within
the three poles, and all the space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a
market for free converse, trafc, and. commerce. When you go there you must
not carry your weapons with you: and if they come into that space, they stick up
their javelins and lances all at the rst poles, and come on unarmed; but if any
violence is offered them, and the truce thereby broken, away they run to the
poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that a greater number of
their people came down than usual, but all very friendly and civil; and they
brought several kinds of provisions, for which we satised them with such toys
as we had; the women also brought us milk and roots, and several things very
acceptable to us, and all was quiet, and we made us a little tent or hut of some
boughs or trees, and lay on shore all night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satised to lie on
shore as the rest; and the boat riding at anchor at about a stone’s cast from the
land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of them come on
A NOTHER A D VENTURE. 339
shore; and getting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread
the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the branches of
the trees all night in the boat.
About two o’clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make a terrible
noise on the shore, calling out for God’s sake to bring the boat in, and come
and help them, for they were all like to be murdered; at the same time, I heard
the re of ve muskets, which was the number of guns they had, and that three
times over; for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frightened with guns
as the savages were in America, where I had to do with them. All this while I
knew not what was the matter, but rousing immediately from sleep with the noise,
I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusees we had on
board, to land and assist our men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much haste; for
being come to the shore, they plunged into the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between three or four hundred men.
Our men were but nine in all, and only ve of them had fusees with them;
the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difculty enough too, three of them
being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse was, that while we stood
in the boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger as they were in on
shore; for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick that we were glad to
barricade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or three loose
boards, which, to Our great satisfaction, we had by mere accident in the boat.
And yet,‘ had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if
they could have seen but the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a little sight of them, as they stood
pelting us from the shore with darts and arrows; and having got ready our
re-arms, we gave them a volley, that we could hear, by the cries of some of
them, had wounded several; however, they stood thus in battle array on the shore
till break of day, which we supposed was that they might see the better to take their
aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or set
up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure
to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals of
distress to the ship, and, though she rode a league off, yet my nephew, the
captain, hearing our ring, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and
that we red towards the shore, pretty well understood us; and weighing anchor
with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to assist us; but we called to them not
to come too near, telling them what condition we. were in; however, they stood
in near to us, and one of the men taking the end of a tow’line in his hand, and
keeping one boat between him and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly
See him, swam on board us, and made fast the line to the boat; upon which we
slipped out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of
‘\
reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricado we had
made.
As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that we could
lay her side to the shore, she ran along. just by them, and poured in a. broadside
among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff,
besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to examine
into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often
in those parts, put me upon it ; for he said he was sure the inhabitants would
not have touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not done something
to provoke them‘ to it. At length, it came out that an old woman, who had
come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, and a young woman
with her, who also brought some roots or herbs 3 and while the old woman ,
(whether she was mother to the young woman or no they could not tell) was
selling us the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the wench that was
with her, at which the old woman made a great noise: ' however, the Seaman
would not quit his‘ prize, but carried her out of the Old woman’s sight among the
trees, it being almost dark; the old woman went away without her, and, as we
may suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from; who, upon
notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four hours, and it was great
odds but we had all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him just at the beginning .
of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had made; the rest came off
free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear
enough for his black mistress, for-we could not hear what became of him for a
great while. We lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented,
and made signals for him, and made our boat sail up shoreand down shore
several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to give him over; and if he
alone had suffered for it, the loss had been less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore once more, to
try if I could learn anything of humor them; it was the third night after the
action that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief
we had done, and how the game stood on the Indians’ side. I was careful to do
it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again: but I ought, indeed, to have
been sure that the men I went with had been under my command, before—I
engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was brought into by it,
without design. '
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the super-
cargo and myself, and we landed two hours before midnight, at the same place
where the Indians stood drawn up on the evening before. I landed here, because
my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they had quitted the eld, and if
they had left any marks behind them of the mischief we had done them; and I
thought, if we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man
again by way of exchange.
 
r
We landed witheet any eeiee, and. dieieeel eer teen inte twe eeeiiee, whereei
MM; gggtgy . I either aw were heard any
eeeiy stir were we landed; and. we mereheei we, eee eeely at e. eieteeee freer
the ether, te the pieee; islet. at eeelei. see eethieg it eiee; eery til rk; till
eyaeeey eer eertewqie, wire 1 the first .rty, eteethied and feli ever eeeri
liieely. ’ilihie made there heft awhile; fer 'enewieg lay the eireeewteeeee that: they
were at the pleee where the ledieee lied steed, waited fee my eeieieg we
there. We eeeelteiierl te halt till the. eiee'e eega. . te rise, whieh keew wteld
he ice iee then we here, when we eeeid easily dieeere the havee her! mate
 
 
 
 
r1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it
 
 
eeve a eeeeee“ f eye}.
 
 
emeeg? there. ‘life teltl thirtyvtwe heeiee epee greeeel, wheref twe were net
eeite deed; eeete heel en awe and seem a sleet eff; and, ene his head, these
tliiet were weeedee, we eeppeeed, they had eerrieei away.
tilieee we we made, as if theeglw, a felt dieeeeery et" all we eeeld eeree ‘re
The keewletilge et; reeelved en geieg we heard I; bet the iiieeteweie end. his petty
sent me were that they weee reeelved te a visit tel the Ijeeliee tewe, whee these
tiege, as they eelleri. ewes, and asked me te eleeg with there; ewe if
they, eeeld tied as they still feeeied they eheelel, ea eet eleeht ef
gettie geerl beefy; and ‘it might he they might lied. “fleet Jeffry theee; that
was the reee’e name we we feet. A’
they seer te my leave he gee, i. knew weft eeeegh whet eeewer te
 
 
 
 
 
 
net: e heeewl fer ee te rent, e we e ship eee ehipileeeieg fie. eer
 
 
ge te melee whieh eepeedecl very reeeh ee the lit ee ef the
men; but as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me
and my company to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up, for
I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men
began to importune me to go; and when I refused, began to grumble, and say
they were not under my command, and they would go. “Come, Jack,” says one
of the men, “will you go with me? I’ll go for one.” Jack said he would—and
then another,-—and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to
stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the supercargo and I, with the third man,
went back to the boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and take
in as many of them as should be left; for I told them it was a mad thing they
were going about, and supposed most of them would have the fate of Tom Jeffry.
They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off again,
and they- would take care, &c. ; so away they went. I entreated them to
consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives were not their own, and that
they were entrusted with the voyage, in some measure; that if they miscarried,
the ship might be lost- for want of their help, and that they could not answer for
it to God or man. But I might as well have talked to the mainmast of the
‘ship; they were mad upon their journey: only they gave me good words, and
begged I would not be angry; that they did not doubt but they would be back
again in‘ about an hour at farthest; for the Indian town, they said, was not above
half a mile off, though they found it above two miles before they got to it.‘
Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was desperate, and such as
none but madmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they went
about it as warily as boldly; they were gallantly armed, for they had every man
a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some of them had broad cutlasses,
some of them had hangers, and the boatswain and two more had poleaxes ;
besides all which, they had among them thirteen hand grenadoes ; bolder fellows,
and better provided, never went about any ,wicked work in the world.
When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were in mighty
hopes of nding gold there; but a circumstance which none of them were aware
of set them on re with revenge, and .made devils of them all.
When they came to the few Indian houses which they thought had been the
town, which was not above half a mile off, they were under a great disappoint-
ment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where the town
_ was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted, therefore, what to do, and
were some time before they could resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must
cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but some of them might escape,
it being in the night, though the moon was up; and if one escaped, he would
run and raise all the town, so they should have a whole army upon them: again,
on the other hand, if they went away and left those untouched, for the people
were all asleep, they could not tell which way to look for the town: however, the
last was the best advice, so they resolved to leave them and look for the town as
well as they could. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a tree;
this, they presently concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said, the
R E VENGE‘. I 343
cow certainly belonged to the town before them, 'or the town behind them, and if
they untied her, they should see which way she went: if she went back they had
nothing to say to her; but if she went forward they would follow her: so they
cut the cord, which _was made of twisted ags, and the cow went on before
them, directly to the town; which, as they reported, consisted of above two
hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they found several families living
together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep could make
them: and, rst, they called another council, to consider what they had to do;
and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and so set
three houses on re in three parts of the town; and as the men came out, to
seize them and bind them (if any resisted, they need not be asked what to do
then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder. But they resolved to
march silently rst through the town, and see what dimensions it was of, and if
they might venture upon it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon them;
but while they were animating one another to the work, three of them, who were
a little before the rest, called out aloud to them, and told them that they had
found Tom jeffry: they all ran up to the place, where they had found the poor
fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat out. There was an Indian
house just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of the principal
Indians, who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of
them wounded with our shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking
one to another in that house, but knew not their number. '
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before, that
they swore to one another they would be revenged, and that not an Indian that
came into their hands should have any quarter; and to work they went im-
mediately, and yet not so madly as might be expected from the rage and fury
they were in. Their rst care was to get something that would soon take re;
but, after a little search, they found that would be to no purpose; for most of
the houses were low, and thatched with ags and rushes, of which the country is
full; so they presently made some wildre, as we call it, by wetting a little
powder in_ the palm of their hands, and in a quarter of an hour they set the
‘ town on re in four or ve places, and particularly that house where the Indians
were not gone to bed.
,As soon as the re began to blaze, the poor frightened creatures began to rush
out to save their lives, but met with their fate in the attempt; and especially at the
door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two with
his poleaxe. The house being large, and many in it, he did not care to go in,
but called for a hand grenado, and threw it among them, which at rst frightened
them, but, when it burst, made such havoc among them that they cried out in a hideous
manner. In short, most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house
were killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three more who pressed to
the door, which the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets on the
 
 
 
t’tltttttt'ltt ef their pleeee, eetl ell thet eetee ltt thew wey 5, het thete wee
eeethet eeettteeet ie the heeee, whete the prime et wt" wheteeet he wee.
eetl eeeetel ethwe, wete ; eetl theee wete keflt ie till the henee, whleh wee ell he e lieht llttllltt, fell lei whee thewt, eetl they were emetheretl tegethet.
thie the u we we while we ewe wet the weld he’; with “if llfilllllf
 
 
 
 
 
 
teeter; thee. they eettltl tweeter lltttt‘ttt
httt the the hegee te weltee them feet
eeegh, eetl wet fellewe ltllt: gletl he
0.
 
 
 
 
 
 
heetft little tegethet he heel ee; the
ll t the wew eh tegleg, ell th heeee
etetle ef light eeteheetihle eteff,
 
 
We.
eew we,
 
wee tie
 
 
eeeld hettllfy here the etteet hetweee them 3; eetl theit heelee
, ~ . u t, the th enret t. eetlete .et we the elthet lhteetl the eeeple
eet heeete whieh wete l weiwg, et ftlghteeetl theet eet ef ethete, eet
teetly et theit tleete te heeelt them we the he ,tl, etill eellieg" t ewe te ettethet te tetttetthet Tee/t
thle wee tleleg, "eet eeeteee .l wee leery eeeeey, eetl eepeelelly whee
l eew teetee ef tle tewe, whieh, ‘it eight, we te jeet hy the
ehtttele, whe wee tetteetl he hie thee, eteleg etteh t the, heewlee what the tilt whet tleegee l} wee he,
eepe lily the ghee tee, fee liy thle time they he te wee thelt htlrtitmhtttttlt
e. theeeetttl theewhte etweet etl etietl eeeeeteleg wte eetl the eel‘ tilttt‘étl, whet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ON THE [11.4 1r CH. 34 5
would become of us; and at last, though he could ill spare any more men, yet
not knowing what exigence we might be in, “he takes another boat, and with
thirteen men and himself comes ashore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with no more
‘than two men; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the
same impatience with us to know what was doing; for the noise continued, and
the ame increased; in short, it was next to an impossibility for any men in the
world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened, or their concern for
the safety of the men: in a word, the captain told me he would go and help his
men, let what would come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men,
the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and
merchants, &c., and told him I and the two men would go, and only see 'if we
could at a distance learn what was likely to be the event, and come back and
tell him. It was in vain to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest
before; he would go, he said; and he only wished he had left but ten men in
the ship, for he could not think of having his men lost for want of help; he had
rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all; and away he went.
I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to persuade them not to
go; so, in short, the captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and
fetch twelve men more, leaving the long-boat at an anchor; and that, when they
came back, .six men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us; so
that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship’s company consisted
of sixty-ve men, whereof two were lost in the late quarrel which brought this
mischief on. - -
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the ground we
trod on 5 and being guided by the re, we kept no path, but went directly to
the place of the ame. If the noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the
cries‘ of the poor people were now quite of another nature, and lled us with
horror. I must confess I was never at the sacking a city, ,or at taking a town by
storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing
man, woman, and child; and I had read of Count Tilly sacking the city of
Magdebourg, and cutting the throats of twenty-two thousand, of all sexes; but I
never had an idea of the thing- itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, or
the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at
length came to the town, though there was no entering the streets of it for the
re. The rst object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the
ashes of it, for the house was consumed; and just before it, plainly now to be
seen by the light of the re, lay four men and three women killed, and, as we
thought, one or .two more lay in the heap among the re; in short, there were
such instances of rage, altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what
was human, ‘that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or, if
they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of them put
to the worst of deaths. But this was not all: we saw the re increased forward,
and the cry went on just as the re went on; so that we were in the utmost
confusion. We advanced a little way farther, and behold, to our astonishment,
three naked women, and crying in the most dreadful manner, came flying as if
they had wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same
terror and consternation, with three of our English butchers in the rear, who,
when they could not overtake them, red in among them, and one that was killed
by their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be
their enemies, and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued
them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women; and two of
them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.
My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when I
saw this; and I' believe, had the three English sailors that pursued them come
on, I had made our men kill them all; however, we took some means to let the
poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt them; and immediately they
came up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous
lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know we would; whereupon
they crept together in a huddle close behind us, as for protection. I left my men
drawn up together, and, charging them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at
some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and what they
intended to do, and to command them off; assuring them that if they stayed till
daylight they would have a hundred thousand men about their ears: I say I left
them, and went among those ying people, taking only two of our men with me;
and there was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some of them had their
feet terribly burned with trampling and running through the re; others their
hands burned; one of the women had fallen down in the re, and was very
much burned before she could get out again; and two or three of the men had
cuts in their backs and thighs, from. our men pursuing; and another was shot
through the body, and died while I was there.
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was ;' but I could not
understand one word they said; though, by signs, I perceived some of them
knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terried in my thoughts
at this outrageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but went back to my own
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town, through the re, or what-
ever might be in the. way, and put an end to it, cost what it would; accordingly,
as I came back to my men, I told them my resolution, and commanded them to
follow me, when, at the very moment, came four of our men, with the boatswain
at their head, roving over heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to
them as loud as they could'halloo; and with much ado one of them made them
hear, so that they knew who we were, and came up to us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a shout of triumph,
for having, as he thought, more help come; and, without waiting to hear me,
“Captain,” says he, “noble captain! I am. glad you are come; we have not
half done yet. Villanous, hell-hound dogs! I’ll kill as many of them as poor
Tom has hairs upon his head: we have sworn to spare none of them; we’ll root
RETURN T0 THE BOAT. 347
out the very nation of them from the earth.” And thus he ran on, out of breath,
too, with action, and would not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, “Barbarous dog!”
said I, “what are you’ doing? I won’t have one creature touched more, upon
pain of death: I charge you, upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still
here, or you are a dead man this minute." “Why, sir," says he, “do you know
what you do, or what they have done? If you want a reason for what we have
done, come hither.” And with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging, ‘with
his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would have been
forward enough; but I thought they had carried their rage too far, and remem-
bered jacob’s words to his sons Simeon and Levi: “Cursed be their anger, for
it was erce; and their wrath, for it was cruel.” But I had now a new task
upon my hands; for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I had
done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me, in their hearing,
that he was only concerned for fear of the men being overpowered; and as to
the people, he thought not one of them ought to live; for they had all glutted
themselves with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought to be used
like murderers. Upon these words,'away ran eight of my men, with the boatswain
and his crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it quite out of my
power to restrain them, came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the
sight, much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into
their hands. '.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men, and
with these walked back to the boat. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I
confess, to venture back as it were alone; for as it began now to be almost day,
" and the alarm had run over the country, there stood about forty men armed with
lances and bows, at the little place where the twelve or thirteen- houses stood,
mentioned before; but by accident I missed the place, and came directly to the
sea-side ; and by the time I got to the sea-side, it was broad day: immediately I
took the pinnace and went on board, and sent her back to assist the men in
what might happen.
I observed, about the time that I came to the boat-side, that the re was
pretty well out, and the noise abated; but in about half an hour after I got on
board, I heard a volley of our men’s re-arms, and saw a great smoke: this, as I
understood afterwards, was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood
at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or seventeen, and set
all the houses on re, but did not meddle with the women or children.
By the time the men got to shore again with the pinnace, our men began to
appear ; they came dropping in, not in two bodies as they went, but straggling here
and there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute men might have cut
them all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country; and the men-
Were surprised, and so frightened, that I believe a hundred of them would have
ed at the sight of but ve of our men; nor in all this terrible action was there
a man that made any considerable defence; they were so surprised between
the terror of the re and the sudden attack. of our men in the dark, that they
knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they ed one way, they were
met by one party; if back again, by another: so‘ that they were everywhere
knocked down; nor did any,,of our men receive ‘the least hurt, except one that '
sprained his foot, and another that had one of his hands burned.
_'I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and indeed with all the men,
in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so out of his duty
‘ as commander of the ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in
his prompting,-rather than cooling, the rage of his blind men, in so bloody and
cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me very respectfully, but told me that
when he saw the body of the poor seaman whom they had murdered in so cruel
and barbarous a manner, he was not master of liimself, neither could he govern
his passion: he owned he should not have done so, as he was commander of
the ship; but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it.
As for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it
well enough; so they .took no notice of my dislike. .
The next day we set sail, so we, never heard any more of it‘. Our men differe
in the account of the number they had killed; but according to the best of their
accounts, put all together, they killed-or'destroyed about one hundred and fty
people—‘men, women, and children, and left not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow Tom Jeffry, as he was quite dead (for his throat was so cut
that his head was half off), it would do him 110 Service to bring him away; so
they only took him down from the tree where he was hanging by one hand.
However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it, and I
always after that time told them God- would blast the voyage; for I looked
upon all the blood they shed,that night to be murder in them. For though it is
true that they .had killed Tom Jeffry, yet Jeffry was the aggressor, had broken the
truce, and had'violated a young woman of theirs, who came down to them
innocently, and on the faith of the public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board. He
said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that
the war was begun the night before by the natives themselves, who had shot at
us and killed one ‘of our men without any just provocation; so that as we were
in a capacity to ght them now, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves
justice upon them in an extraordinary manner; that though the poor man had
taken a little liberty with the wench, he ought not to have been murdered, and
that in such a villanous manner; and that they did nothing but what was just,
and what the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to have warned us against
going on shore amongst heathens and barbarians; but it is impossible to make
mankind wise but at their own expense; and their experience seems to be always
of most use to them when it is-dearest bought. , ‘
 
life were new tweed te the Gtetti ef
yereie, eett ttettt tlteeee te the eeeet
ef tieeeeteetlel, eety te tetteh tieeet bet the elttef ef the eeptreetge’e tleeige
ley et the ef lieeget; ettete, if he,
etieeett he itttetttetttt eetteertttteettti, lee
wee te ge ett te (Zltitte, ettd rettttie te
the eeeet ee he eeete hetee.
yil'ilte fleet eiieeetet tltttt befell. tte wee
itt the ttelt” ef titeeeie, whete fete ef eet
mete, t etetief ee elitete we the ftteljtiee
tide ef the ‘gait, teete eeeeetietltti he the
tttetiieee, eeel either e'tt kitted ee eettied
eteey ittte eleeety; the tee ef the beetie
etete teete eet ettle te tee"
theet, eetl; litetl ljtet jeet time
get eff their beet I; ttegtte te
eehteitt thettt eith the jeet teteiv
hetiee ef lrteeeett ie. thie eeee;
het the heeteeeie veey e etety
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with/W
tettetee { gee}
wt,
 
 
 
 
 
 
-toid me, he thought I went farther in my censures than I could show any
warrant for in Scripture; and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where our Saviour
intimates that those men on whom the Tower of Siloam fell were not sinners
above all the Galileans: but that which put me to silence in the case was, that
not one of these ve men who were now lost were of those who went on
shore to the massacre of Madagascar-“so I always called it, though our men
could not bear to hear the word massacre with any patience.
But my frequent preaching to them on this ‘subject had worse consequences
than I expected; and the boatswain, who had been the head of the attempt,
came up‘ boldly to me one time, and told me he found that I brought that affair
continually upon the stage; that I made unjust reections upon it, and had used
the men very ill ‘on that account, and himself in particular; that as I was but a
passenger, and had no command in the ship, or Concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I might have some ill
design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for it when they
came to England; and that, ‘therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with p
it, and also not to concern myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he
would leave the ship; for he did not think it safe to sail with me among
them. '
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him that I
confessed I had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, and that I had,
on all occasions, spoken my mind freely about it, thOllgh not more upon him ;
than any of the rest; that as to having no command in the ship, that was true;
nor did I exercise any authority, only took the ‘liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern I had in the voyage
was none of his business; that I was a considerable owner in the ship. In that
claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even farther than I had done, and
would not be accountable ‘to him or any one else, and began to be a little warm
with him. He made but little ‘reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair
had been over. We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing
to see the place, I went on shore» with the supercargo, in the ship’s boat, to
divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board, when one of
the men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself to come
down to the boat,- for they had orders not to carry me on board any more.
Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at ‘so insolent a message; and I
asked the man, who bade him deliver that message to me. He told me the
coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had
delivered his message, and that I had given him no answer to it.
I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him the story
adding, what I presently foresaw, that there would be a mutiny in the ship; and
entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and
acquaint the captain of it. But I might have spared this intelligence, for before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on board. The boatswain,
the gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off
ANGER OF THE M EN. . 35 I
in the boat, came up, and desired to speak with the captain; and there‘ the
boatswain, making a long harangue, and repeating all he had said to me, told the
captain in a few words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were
10th to use any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, they
would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought
t to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his
command, they would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not quit the
ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail
‘no farther with him; and at that word all, he turned his face towards the main-
mast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which, the
seamen, being got together there, cried out, “ One and all! one and a!!! ”
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit and of great presence of mind;
and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them
calmly that he would consider of the matter; but that he could do nothing in it
till he had spoken to me about it. He used some arguments with them, to show
them the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore, and shook hands round before his face, that they would all go on
shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more on
board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and did
not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly to them; told them
that I was a very considerable owner ‘of the ship, and that, in justice, he could
not put me out of my own house; that this was next door to serving me as the
famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on
shore on an uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to England again, it would cost-
them very dear; that the ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it;
and that he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me so
much; so they might do as they pleased. However, he would go on shore and
talk with me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and said
they would have nothing to do with me any more; and if I came on board, they
would all go ashore. “Well,” said the captain, “if you are all of this mind, let
me go on shore and talk with him.” So away he came to me with this account,
a little after the message had been brought to me from the coxswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was not without
apprehensions that they would conne him by violence, set sail, and run away
with the ship; and then I had been stripped naked in a remote country, having
nothing to help myself; in short, I had been in a worse case than when I was
alone in the island. But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my
satisfaction; and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands, that they would, one and all, leave the ship, if
I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should not be concerned at it at
all, for I would stay on shore. I only desired he would take care and send me
all my necessary things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I
would nd my way to England as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way to help
it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the ship again, and satised
the men that his uncle had yielded to their importunity, and had sent for his
goods from on board the ship; so that the matter was over in a few hours, the
men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I may call
it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off from England than I
was at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here by land over the Great
Mogul’s country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf
of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the desert of Arabia, to Aleppo
and Scanderoon: from thence by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France;
and this ‘put together, might at least be a full diameter of the globe or more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English ships,
which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the Island ‘of Sumatra, and get
passage on board them for England. But as I came hither without any concern
with the East India Company, so it would be diicult to go from hence without
their licence, unless with great favour of the Captains of the ships, or the
company’s factors; and to both I was an utter stranger. ' ,
Here I had the mortieation to see the ship set sail without me; a treatment
I‘ think a man in my circumstances scarcely ever met with, except from pirates
running away with a ship, and setting those that would not agree with their
villany on shore. Indeed, this was next door to it both ways; however, my
nephew left me two servants, or rather, one companion and one servant; the rst
was clerk to the parser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his
own servant. I took me also a’ good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman,
where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and
one Englishman. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and that I might
not be said to run rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine months,
considering what course to take, and how to manage myself. I had some English
goods with me of value, and a considerable sum of money; my nephew furnishing
me with a thousand pieces-ofleight, and a letter of credit for more, if I had
occasion, that I might not be straitened, whatever might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage; and, as I originally intended, I
bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all other things, were the most
proper for me in my present circumstances, because I could. always carry my
whole estate about me. '
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to England,
but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who lodged with me, and
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one morning:
“countryman,” says he, “I have a project to communicate to you, which, as it
suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you
shall have thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and I
VARIOUS PVANDEMNGS. 353
by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own country;
but it is in a country where, by us, who understand trade and business, a great
deal of money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds to my one
thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the rst we can get to our minds; you
shall be captain, I’ll be merchant, and we’ll go a trading voyage to China; for
what should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round and
round; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and
diligent; why should we be idle? There are no drones in the world but men:
why should we be of that number?”
I liked this proposal very well; and the more so because it seemed to be
expressed with so much goodwill, and in so friendly a manner. I will not say
but that I might, by my loose, unhinged circumstances, be the tter to embrace
a proposal for trade, or indeed, anything else; otherwise, trade was none of my
element. However, I might perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not
my element, rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part of the world which
I had never seen before could possibly come amiss to me. ‘
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our minds, and
when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to say,
so many as were necessary to govern the voyage and manage the sailors which
we should pick up there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a
gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast men. With these we
found we could do well enough, having Indian‘ seamen, such as they were, to
make up. .
There are so many travellers who have written a history of their voyages and
travels this way, that it would be very'little diversion to anybody to give a long
account of the places we went to, and the people who inhabit there; these things
I leave to others, and refer the reader to those journals and travels of English-
men, of which many I nd are published, and more promised every day; it is
enough for me to tell you that we made this voyage to Achin, in the island oi
Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for
opium and some arrack ; the rst a commodity which bears a great price among
the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted there. In a word, we
went up to Suskan, made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and re-
turned to Bengal; and I was very well satised with my adventure. ‘ I observe
that our’ people in England often admire how ofcers. which the Company send
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there, get such very great
estates as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thousand
pounds at a time; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther
into it, when we consider the innumerable ports and places where. they have a
free commerce, that it will be none; and much less it will be so when we consi-
der that at those places and ports where the English ships come, there is such
great and constant demands for the growth of all other countries, that there is a
Certain vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad for the goods carried
out.
23
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money by my
rst adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting more, that had I
been twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and
sought no farther for making any fortune; but what was all this to a man
upwards of threescor'e, that was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience
to a restless desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?
And, indeed, I think it is with great justice I now call it restlessdesire, for it
was so. When I was at home, I was restless to go abroad; and when I was
abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, what was this gain to me? I was
rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy desires about getting more money;
and therefore the prot of the voyage to me was of no great force for the
prompting me forward to farther undertakings: hence, I thought that by this
voyage I had made no progress at all, because I was come back, as I might call
it, to the place from whence I came, as to a home: whereas, my eye, like that
which Solomon speaks of, was never satised with seeing. I was come into a
part of the world which I was never in before, and that part, in particular, which
I had heard much of, and was resolved to see as much of it as I could: and
then I thought I might say I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions: I do not name this to
.insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were the most just, and the more suited
to the end of a merchant’s life: who, when he i5,abr0ad upon adventures, is wise
to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is likely to get the most
money by. My‘ new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing, and would
have been content to have gone like a carrier’s horse, always to the same inn,
backward and forward, provided he could, as he called it, nd his account in it.
on the other hand, mine was the motion of a mad, rambling boy, that 'never
cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience
upon 'me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable
which way to go. In the interval‘ of these consultations, my friend, who was
‘always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage to me among the
Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or there-
abouts; places, indeed, where the Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the
Spaniards; though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not
the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, 81c. ‘
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difculty was in
bringing me'to come into it; however, at last, nothing else offering, and nding
that really stirring about and trading, the prot being so great, and, as I may say,
certain, had more pleasure in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind, than
sitting still, which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on
this voyage too, which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several
islands whose names I do not remember, and came home in about five months.
We sold our spice, which was chiey cloves and nutmegs, to the Persian merchants,
who carried them away to the gulf; and making near ve of one, we really got a
great deal of money.
A FOR TUNA TE Drsa RRUINTNENT 3 5 5
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me: “Well, now,” said
he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my indolent temper, “ is. not this better
than walking about here, like a man. with nothing" to do, and spending our time
in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans?” “Why, truly,” says I,
“my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles of mer-
chandising; but I must tell you,” said I, “by the way, you do not know what I
am doing; for if I once conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old as
I am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I tire you; for I shall pursue
it so eagerly I shall never let you lie still.” I
But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this there came in a
Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader, of about
two hundred tons burden; the men, as they pretended, having been so sickly
that the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal;
and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
for Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his ship. This came to my ears
before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it; so I went
to him and I told him of it. He considered awhile, for he was no rash man
neither; but musing some time, he replied, “She is a little too big; but, however,
we will have her.” Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with the
master, we paid for her, and took possession. When we had done so, we re-
solved to engage the men, if we could, to join with those we had, for the pur-
suing our business; but, on a sudden, they having received not their‘ wages, but
' their share of the money, as we afterwards learned, not one of them was to be
found; we inquired much about them, and at length were told that they were all
gone together by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul’s residence, and from
thence to travel to Surat, and go by the sea, to the Gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so much troubled me a good while, as that I should miss the
opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble I thought, and in such
company as would both have guarded and diverted me, would have suited mightily
with my great design; and I should have both seen the world, and gone homeward
too: but I was much better satised a few days after, when I came to know what
sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was, that this man they called
captain was the gunner only, not the commander; that they had been a trading
voyage, in which they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who
had killed the captain and three of his men; and that, after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to, run away with the ship, which
they did, and brought her to Bengal, leavingfthe mate and ve men more on
shore.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her, as we
thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as we
ought; for we never inquired anything of the seamen, who would certainly have
_faltered in their account, contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted
themselves; somehow or other we should have had reason to have suspected
them; but the man showed‘ us a bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel
 
 
fiffleetetehtwee, er eethe etteh heme, fee I eeeheee it ell e fergery, eetl telletl
hhheelt hy that name, ehtl eehltl eet eehtettillet him; ewe withel, he
ewehlelett ef the thing, we wettt threttgh with her ljhtrgete.
We hlelted he ethtte there hihglieh eeilete e'fter ehtl eeete Ihtteh;
ehtl eew we reeeleetl tiltfl e eeeehd eeyege th the titetllltrtttttlli fer eltwee, thet
te eey, entehg the llhlllettihe etttl hleleeee lelee; and, ill ehert, wet te till tilt/t
 
we. wee ew eweeteewew tie. 35y}.
pett ef the etety with ttiflee, whee whet te eetee it we reetetltehle, I epeet,
freet tie feet, yeete tie thle eeehtry, ttetlieg teem pert te pert, heeltwettl
well here etwl with "very geetl etteeeee, and wee eew the leet yeet with my new
petteet, he the ehle hliltittltt mehtieeetl, eh e. eeyege te Qhiee, hat tleelgeing
fleet te “ire te heath, te hey rlee.
le thle eeyege, heieg hy eeettery wletle ehllgetl te heel hp eetl tlewe greet
while he the Sttelte ef hleleeee, ewe; were, we were he eeehee get
eleet ef theee tllhfleelt eeee, thee we fetthtl her ehltt heel etwtteg e leek, eetl we
were wet hy ettt htthtetty, tie eht where it lllhle feteetl he te
eethe jtjtett; ehtl thy hetteet, whe ltt’lh‘h" the eettetry hetter thee ere,
elteetetl the eepteie te wet: ihte the titer ef tllemhetlle ;, the heel mettle the
 
 
 
 
[N DANGER. 3 5 7
English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge
of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the great bay or
gulf which goes up to Siam. While we were here, and going often on shore for
refreshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems,
a gunner’s mate on board an English East India ship, which rode in the same -
river, at or near the city of Cambodia. What brought him hither, we knew not;
but he comes to me, and speaking English, “Sir,” says be, “you are a stranger to
me, and I to you; but I have something to tell you that very nearly concerns
you.” -
I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at rst I had known
him; but I did not. “ If it very nearly concerns me,” said I, “and not yourself,
what moves you to tell itwtO me?”. “I am moved," says he, “by the imminent
danger you are in, and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it.” “ I know
no danger I am in,” says I,-“but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot nd it
out; but I intend to lay her aground tomorrow, to see if I can nd it.” “But,
sir,” says he, “leaky or not leaky, nd it or not nd it, you will be wiser than
to lay your ship on shore tomorrow when you hear what I have to say to you.
Do you know, sir,” said he, “the town of Cambodia. lies about fteen leagues up
this river; and there are two large English ships about ve leagues on this side,
and three Dutch?” “Well,” said I, “and what is that to me?” “Why, sir,”
said he, “ is it for a-man that is upon such‘ adventures as you are to come into
a port, and not examine rst what ships there are there, and whether he is able
to deal with them? I suppose you do not think you are a match for them P” I
was amused very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him and said: “ Sir, I wish
you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to be afraid of
any of the Company’s ships, or Dutch ships. I am no interloper. What can
they have to say to me?” He looked like a man half angry and half pleased,
and pausing awhile, but smiling, “Well, sir,” says be, “if you think yourself
secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry your fate should blind you against
good advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately, you will
the very next tide be attacked by ve long-boats full of men, and perhaps, if you
are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined after-
wards. I thought, sir,” added he, “I should have met with a better reception
than this for doing you a piece of service of such importance.” “I can never be
ungrateful,” said I, “for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness;
but it is past my comprehension what they should have such a design upon me
for; however, since you say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some
villainous design on hand against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to
sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim without
stopping it; but, sir,” said I, “shall I go away ignorant of the cause of all this?
Can you give me no further light into it?” “I can tell you but part of the
story, sir,” says he ; “but I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I
could persuade him to tell you the rest, though there is scarce time for it. The
short of the story is this---the rst part of which I suppose you know well enough
---that you,were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered
by the Malays, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were
on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This
is the sum of the story, and you will all-be seized as pirates, I can assure you,
and executed with very little ceremony; for you know merchant ships show but
little law to pirates, if they get them into their power.” “Now you speak plain
English,” said I, “and I thank you; and though I know nothing that we have
done like what you talk of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the
ship, yet seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will‘ be upon my guard.” “ Nay, sir,” says he, “do not talk of being
upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of the danger. If you have any
regard for your life, and the lives of all your men, put to sea without fail at high
water; and. as you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out
before they can come down; for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by the difference
of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way; besides, as they are only boats,
and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it
blows.” “Well,” said I, “you have been very kind in this: What shall I do for
you to make you amends?” “Sir,” says he, “you may 110t be willing to make
me any amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it. I will
make an offer to you: I have nineteen months’ pay due to me on board the
ship -——-, which I came out of England ,in; and the Dutchman that is with me
has seven months’ pay due to him. If you will make good our pay to us, we
will go along with you; if you nd nothing more in it, we will desire no more;
but if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you.”
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the two
men with me. As soon as I came to the ship’s side, my partner, who was on
board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great deal of
joy, “Oh, ho! Oh, ho! we have stopped the leak—we have stopped the leak!”
“Say you so?” said I; “thank God! but weigh anchor, then, immediately.”
“Weigh!” says he; “what do you mean by that? What is the matter?” “Ask
no questions,” said I; “but‘ all hands to work, and weigh without losing a
minute.” He was surprised; but, however, he called the captain, and he im-
mediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and though the tide was not quite
down, yet a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it; but as it took up a great deal of time, before we had
done, a seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us that the captain
bade him tell us we were chased. “Chasedl” says I; “by what?” “By ve
sloops, or boats,” says the fellow, “full of men.” “Very well,” said I, “then
it is apparent there is something in it.” In the next place, I ordered all our
men to be called up, and told them that there was a design to seize the ship,
‘ FLIGHT. 3 59
and to take us for pirates, and‘ asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another; the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and
die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he thought best for us .to
manage a ght with them; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to
the last drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them off with our
great shot as long as we could, and then to re at them with our small arms,
to keep them from boarding us: but when neither of these would do any longer,
we would retire to our .close quarters; perhaps they had not materials to break
open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us. '
The gunner had, in the meantime,‘ orders to bring two guns to bear fore and
aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them with musket-bullets and
small pieces of old iron, and what came next to hand; and thus we made ready
for ght: but all this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see
the'boats at a distance, being ve large long-boats, following us with all the sail
they could make. , -
' Two of these boats (which by our glasses we could see were English) had
outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us
considerably, so that we found they would come up with us; upon which we red
a gun without ball, to intimate that they should bring to: and we put out a flag
of truce, as a'signal for parley; but they came crowding after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white ag, they having .made no answer to it,
and hung out a red ag, and red at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this,
they came on till they were near enough'to call to them with a speaking-trumpet
which we had on board ; so we called to them, and bade them keep off at‘ their
peril.
It was all‘ one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to. come under our
stern so as to board us on our quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute for
mischief and depended upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring
the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we red ve
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry away the stern
of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail,
and running all to the head of the boat, to keep her from sinking; so she lay
by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we
made ready to re at her in particular. While this was doing, one of the three
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat
which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men:
we called again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce, to parley again, and to
know what her business was with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close
under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, ran
out his two chase-guns, and red again at her, but the shot missing, the men in
the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on: the gunner getting quickly
ready again, red among them a second time, one ‘shot of which, though it
missed the_boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily see hhd
done a great ‘deal of mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, wore
the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and ring three guns
more, we found the boat was almost split to pieces; in particular, her rudder and
a piece of her stern were shot quite away; so they hauled her sail immediately,
and were in great disorder. But, to complete their misfortune, our gunner let y
two guns at them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
boat was sinking, and some of the rrien already in the water: upon this, I
immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had ‘kept close by our side, with
orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, and save them from drowning,
and immediately to come on board ship with them, because we saw the rest of
the boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and
took up three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we crowded all
the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea; and we found that when
the other three boats came up to the rst two they gave over ,their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger which, though I knew not the reason
of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I resolved that we
should change our course, and not let anyone know whither we were going: so we
stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European ships, whether
they were bound to China or anywhere else, within the commerce of the
European nations. .
When we were at sea we began to consult with the two seamen, and inquire
what the meaning of all this should be ; and the Dutchman let us into the secret
at once, telling us that the fellow that sold us the Ship, as we said, was no more
than a thief that had run away with her. Then he told us that the captain,
whose name too he mentioned, though I do not remember it now, was treacher-
ously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his men--
and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods, where they
wandered about a great while, till at length he, in particular, in a, miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the
shore in its way from China, had sent their boat onshore for fresh water; that
he durst not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made shift
in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great while; at last
the ship’s boat took him up.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen belonging
to the ship had arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels, and gave an
account that the fellow who had run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a
set of pirates, who were gone a-cruising in her, and that they had already taken
an‘ English ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, though we knew it to be
false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if we had fallen into their hands, and
they had had such a prepossession against us beforehand, it had been in vain
for ‘us to have defended ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their
hands; and especially, considering that our accusers had been our judges, and
that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage would have
 
2
 
 
it thetateti, atttl aegeeeraeti weather hate eaeeateti; atttt theret‘ere it hie
eptrrtea we aheetti tiireetly haek. ta Ltiteegat, treat wheeee we eaare, witheat
pettieg hr at arty pert whatever; heeaeae there we erealei gire geett aeeeeat
at eareeleee, eeaid pretre where we were whee the ship ljrttt he, at wheat we
 
 
 
 
heatrht her, anti the
like aed, what wae there
than ah the teat, we
were pat apart the aeeea“
why at hriegiag it hefere the
reaper jatl aheehil he
were ‘te aerate jeatiee, aett
wet hartged that, anti jarigert
t three time at wry
partner-h epieiea ,1; hat after a
little mere aerietta thiahhtg, ii
Htltlttthth tea aewra at a trtarartea” mm mm thimgiiii ii: h
aeelt wary haeartl far are ta
attempt retarahtg te herrgal, the
that were are the wreeg title at the thrahe at Malaeea, arid that the
alarm wee ghee, we eheehl attire te he waylaitl ea eeery title, welt he
the lhateh at hataeia at the eieewhere: that if we aheeltl he tahee
at it were rtre‘airrg away, aheelti eeea eearleawt earaeleea, aatfl there
wettld waat are mere etiittertee te rteatrey we. I aelteti the Itegliah aailer’t
epieiea, whe aaiti he wee at my haired, that we aheelti eettaiely he teltttt.
"'ii‘hie tittttg‘ttt’ a little atartletl ray partaer, and all the ehip’a eerapaay, atttl we
iaratettiately reeeleerl re get away re the eeaat at “ll‘eeeaie, aael are en te the
coast of China; and pursuing the rst design'as to trade, nd some way or other
to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such
as we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our security; and
accordingly we steered away N.N.E.,~keeping above fty leagues off from the
usual course to the eastward. This, however, put us to some inconvenience; for,
rst, the winds, when we came that distance from the shore, seemed to be more
steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and E.N.E.,
so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with
victuals for so long a run; and, what was still worse, there was some danger that
those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof some were
bound that way', might have got in before us, and if not, some other ship bound
to China might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the same
vigour.
I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including the late
escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most dangerous condition that
ever I was in through all my past life; for whatever ill circumstances I had been
in, I was never pursued for a thief before; nor had I ever done anything that
merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiey
been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly say, I had been nobody’s enemy but
my own; but now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable; for
though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to make that innocence
appear; and if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt of the
worst kind—at least, a crime esteemed so among the people I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we should go tO- My partner seeing me thus
dejected, though he was the most concerned at rst, began to encourage me,
and describing to me the several ports of that coast, told me he would put
in on the coast of Cochin China, or’the Bay of Tonquin, intending afterwards
to go to Macao, a town once in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a
great many European families resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither in order to their going forward to China.
Hither, then, we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a tedious and
irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coast very early in the morning; and upon reection on the past circum-
stances we were in, and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to .put
into a small river, which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to see
if we could, either overland or by the ship’s pinnace, come to know what ships
were in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for
though we did not immediately see any European ships in the Bay of .Tonquin,
yet the next morning there came‘ into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third,
without any colours spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed
by at about two leagues’ distance, steering for the coast of China, and in the
afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course; and thus we
thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and the other. The
OUR SHIP SPRINGS A LEAK. 36 3
place we were in was wild and barbarousH-the people thieves, even by occupation
or profession; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and,
except getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them,
yet it was with much difculty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them several ways. We were in a. small river of this country, within a few
leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our boat we coasted north-east,
to the point of land which opens the great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this
beating up along the shore that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies.
The people we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of
the coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only in
sh and oil, and such gross commodities; and it may be particularly seen that
they are the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants. Among other customs,
they have this one—that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked
upon their coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it was
not long before we found a piece of their kindness this way, on the occasion
following.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that we could
not nd it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, ,in the happy minute of our being to be seized by the Dutch and
English ships near the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not nd the ship so perfectly
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved while we were at this place to lay
her on shore, and take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her
bottom, if possible, to nd out where the leaks were. Accordingly, having light-
ened the ship, and brought all our guns and other movables to one side, we tried
to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom; but, on second thoughts,
we did not care to lay her on dry ground, neither could we nd~ out a proper
place for it. .
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight; came
wondering down the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lierjadown on one
side in such a, manner, and heeling in towards the shore, and not seeing our
men, who werieiiiitmwiork on her bottom with stages, and with their boats on the-
off-side, they presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the ‘
ground. On this supposition, they all came about us in two or three hours’ time,
with ten or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men in a
boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the ship, and if
they found us there, to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of their governor. .
When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they discovered
us all hard at work on the outside of the ship’s bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man knows how. They stood for a
while gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, could not imagine what
their design was; but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get
some of us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work, to defend themselves with, if there should be occasion;
alt? QrEWh/it'th’t/ Ca
and it wae we there thart eeetlmfer ie. leea thaw a qearter at are heath eeaaeth
atierr, they agreed, it aeetee, that the ehtjjr reatty a wreath, amt mm W Wm
M" m “Wm iidmwmmtl m ‘term With W tee were ear twee hr the heljilr at ear
heater; aart whee we hearted ear at'the hate the heat, they eerreletlert, try that
mmilm’ MW; Wig WWW imdmwmfinhi he have eeere at ear eeetta: whee thie, they
 
 
their it far graetett we ah heieegeti te there, and away they eaete tiltrerjgtty WWW
ear rhea, ea it” it had heee tie a tree at heath,
mm mam’ iiiimg iii} WW1‘? m with?’ llregtae ta he frighteaeti, far we lay her he
are ill. treatere te fight, arttl ertert eat ta ea te heew what theyw gamma my,” I
hraeediately eatlert tie the rhea that werkett heart. the etagee, ta there rtewrr,
aerl we the eirte iete the hitijflt, earl hatle theae he the heat: ta rrgrw retreat aha
eerae we heard; aart the few wee were we heard werlted with atl the atrerttrth
and Mimi?’ Wig him it} illfih the lth? W tighter; hat, heweeer, eeither the area
whee the atagea her theae ie the heate eealtil tie ae they errlererl, harem the
WWW” mlimiii'ii Wifm 11W“ that“; time We at their heata hearttetfil ear leetfrheatr
aed re lay helrt ef the area their priaertera
that area they helrl at were arr hiagtiah aearaaa, a ateet, atreeg thllew,
Wm imlfimh h mmtlttftl hie heath aerer tattered ta the it, hat laid it rtawe ie the
 
 
 
 
 
“west, nerve, j ,flt’il lly/‘ii; If‘ Mfliitl till?‘
M2
 
 
 
 
A NOVEL M0125 0F I/VARFARE. 36 5
boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he understood his business better than I
could teach him, for he grappled the pagan, and dragged him by main force out
of their boat into ours, where, taking him by the ears, he beat his head so
against the boat’s gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the meantime,‘
a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end of it so
laid about him, that he knocked down ve of them who attempted to enter
the boat. But this was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty ‘men, who,
fearless because ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves into
the long-boat where we had but ve men in all to defend it; however, the
following accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete
victory. '
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to
pay the seams where he had caulked her to stop the leaks, had‘ got two kettles
just let down into the boat, one lled with boiling pitch, and the other with
resin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff as the shipwrights use for that work; and
the man that attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with
which he supplied the men that were at work with the. hot stuff. Two of the
enemy’s men entered the boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a lad1e~full of the stuff, boiling hot,
which so burned and scalded them, being half-naked, that‘ they roared out like
bulls, and, enraged with the re, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it,
and Cried out, “Well done, Jack! give them some more of it:”' and stepping
forward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and
his man threw it amongr them so plentifully‘that, in short, of 'all the men in the
three boats, there was not one that escaped being scalded and burned with it,
in a ‘most frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying that I
never.heard a worse noise: for it is worth-observing that, though pain naturally
makes all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular ‘way of exclamation,
and make a noise as different one from another as their speech. I cannot give the
noise these creatures made a better name than howling, nor a name more proper
to the tone of it; for I __never heard anything "more like the noise of the
wolves which, as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of
Languedoc. ~
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as it was a
perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent before, but as we got
this victory without any bloodshed. except of that man the fellow killed with his
naked hands, and which I was very much concerned at; for I was sick of
killing such poor savage wretches, even though it was in my own defence,
knowing they came on errands which they thought just, and knew no better;
and that though it may be a just thing,,because necessary (for there is no neces-
sary wickedness in nature), yet I thought it was a sad life, ‘when we must be
always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to preserve ourselves; and,
indeed, I think so still; and I would ‘even now su'er a great deal, rather than I
would take away the life even of the worst person injuring me; and I believe all
considering people, who know the value of life, would be of my opinion, if they
entered seriously into the consideration of it. i -
But to return to my story :---All the while this was doing, my partner and I,
who managed the rest of the men on ‘board, had with great dexterity brought the
ship almost to rights, and having got the guns into their places again, the gunner
called tovme to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let y among
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not offer to re, for the
carpenter would do the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle,
which our cook, who was on board, took care of. The enemy was so terried
with what they_had met with in their rst attack, that they would not come on
again; and some of them who were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were,
upright, began, as we suppose, to see their mistake, and gave over the enterprise,
nding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry ght;
and having got some rice, and some roots and bread, with about sixteen hogs,
on board, two days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward,
whatever came of it ;' for we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the
next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose
of for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening, and the
next morning were ready to sail: in the meantime, lying at anchor at some
distance from the shore, we were not so much concerned, being now in a ghting
posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy had presented. The next
day, having nished our work within board, and nding our ship was perfectly
healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of
Tonquin,‘ for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not stand in there, because we
had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before; so .we kept on
N.E., towards the island of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch
or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediterranean
is of an Algerine man-of-war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E., as if we would go to the
Manillas or the Philippine islands; and this we did that we might not fall into the
way of any of the European ships; and then we steered north, till we came to
the latitude of 22 degrees 20 minutes, by which means we made the island of
Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh
provisions, which the people there, who are very courteous and civil in their
manners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us
in all their agreements and bargains; which is what we did not nd among other
people, and may be owing to the remains of Christianity which was once planted
here by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have
often observed, viz., that the Christian religion always civilises the people and
reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving effects upon _
them or no.
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an equal
distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of China where our European
OUR GARRULOUS. PILOT. 367
ships usually come; being resolved, if possible, not to fall into any of their hands,
especially in this country; where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of
being entirely ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to put into the
rst trading port we should come at; and standing in for the shore, a boat came
off two leagues to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to
be a European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were glad of,
and took him on board ; upon which, without asking whither we would go, he
dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back. .
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry us
whither we would, that I began to talk to him about carrying us to the Gulf of
Nanquin, which is the most northern part of the. coast of China. The old man
said he knew the Gulf of Nanquin very well; but smiling, asked us what we
would do there. I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c.; and so would return by the same
course we came. He told us our best port would have been to put in at Macao,
where we could not have failed of a market for our opium to our satisfaction,
and might for our money have purchased allsorts of China goods as cheap as we
could at Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very
opinionated or conceited, I told A him we were gentlemen as well as merchants,
and that we had a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the famous
court of the monarch of China. “Why, then,” says the old man, “you should go
to Ningpo, where, by the river which runs into the sea there, you may go within
ve leagues of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some
considerable’ hills by the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of
Pekin, being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues.”
“Well,” said I, “Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our business now; the
great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we
can travel to Pekin afterwards?” He said he could do so very well, and that
there was a great Dutch ship gone up that way just before. This gave me a
little shock, for a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we had much rather have
metthe devil, at least if he had not come in too frightful a gure; and we
depended upon it that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no
condition to ght them; all the ships they trade with into those parts being of
great burden," and of much greater force than we were. 1,
The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern when he
named a Dutch ship, and said to me, “Sir, you need be under no apprehensions
of the Dutch; I suppose they are not now at war with y,our.nation?” “No,”
said I, “that’s true; but I know not what liberties men may take when they are
out of the reach of the laws of their own country.” “Why,” says be, “you are no
pirates; what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants,
sure.”
If I had any blood in my body that did not y up into my face at that word,
it was hindered by some stop in. the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it,
for it put me into the greatest disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it
possible for me to conceal it so, but.the old man easily perceived it. _
“Sir,” says he, “I nd you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my
talk; pray. be pleased to go which way you think t, and depend upon it, I’ll do
you all ,the service I can.” “Why, Seignior,” said I, “it is true I am a little
unsettled in my resolution, at this time, whither to go in particular; and I am
something more so for what you said about pirates. I hope 'there are no pirates
in these seas. _ We are but in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see we
have but a small force, and are but very weakly manned.” “Oh, sir,” says he,
“don’t be concerned; I do not know that there have been any pirates in these
seas these fteen years, except one, which was Seen, as I hear, in the Bay of
Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured she is gone to the southward;
nor was she a ship of any greatforce, or t for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew that was on board, after
the captain and some of his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.” “What!” said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter,
“did they murder the captain?” “No,” said he, “I don’t understand they
murdered him; but, as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the Malayans, who_did murder
him, and perhaps they procured them to do it.” “Why, then,” said I, “they
deserve death as much as if they had done it themselves.” “Nay,” says the old
man, “they do.deserve it; and they will certainly have it, if they light upon any
English or Dutch ship; for they have all agreed together, that if they meet that
rogue, they'll give him no quarter.” “But,” said I to him, “ you say the pirate
is gone out of these seas; how can they meet with .him, then?” “Why, that’s
true,” says he, “they do say so; but he was, as I tell you, in the Bay of Siam,
in the river Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who
belonged to the ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her;
and some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within a little,
of taking him; nay,” said he, “if the foremost boats had been well seconded by
the rest, they had certainly taken him; but be, nding only two boats within reach
of him, tacked about, and red at those two, and disabled them before the others
came up, and then standing off to‘ sea, the others were not able to follow, and so
he got away; but they have all so exact a description of the ship, that they will-
be sure to know her; and wherever they nd her, they have vowed to give no
quarter either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard—
arm.” “What!” said _I, “will they execute them, right or wrong? hang them
rst, and judge them afterwards?” “Oh, sir,” says the old pilot, “there is no
need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those; let them tie
them back to back, and set them a divingw’tis no more than they rightly deserve.”
I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no harm, so
that I turned short upon him. “Well, now, seignior,” said I, “this is the very
reaarni treniti yen entry he tip in anti net ‘pat ta
htaeae, er in any ether part at the eenntry the er iiinteh ehipa
eerne; far he it knewn tn yen, three at” the iltnteh
ahina are a pareei hi raah, errand, inanient ieiinwa, that neither what helenga
tie jnatiee, net heat tn hehaee thentaeirea here at that anti natttre tiireet;
hat heing prenti at" their 'etfieea, anti net nnderatantiing their newer, they wattle
eat the ntnrtierera tn rinniah rehhera; trtntiti apart there in inenit iaiaeiy
aeeaaeti, and determine thetn gnilty trithnnt tine inttniry; anti perharta they lire
tn tiring eaten at there tn aeennnt far it, when they they tanght heir jeatiee in
 
 
t‘ a near eane {ya gee},
tn he eaeented, and that he then tittt’ghi tn he treated an erinitinal tilt aerne
eritienee he had at the arena, that he the man,”
With thin I telri hint thia the v‘nary iiititii they attaelretl, and gate hire
a felt aeeennt at the altirtniah we hart with their heart, and hen thnliahiy anti
eenartiiy they hehared, 1 thin hint aii. artery at ear haying the thin, anti
hen the ilintehnten ‘earned na 1 telti hint the reaeene had ta heliere the atery
at hitting the theater hy the hiatayane tree tree ea the tanning the
ahip‘; hat it nae aii a tietien at nan ta that then had turned,
pirate/ta, and nnght tn heen ante it nae heiere rentnred tn
attaeit tie hy aarpriee, anti eliiilige tn retain them; that they rennin here
the hinted at" there then where we hilleti there in tn anawer the
The eitl t’t'ttttt were at reiatian, anti teiti an we rery tnneh
in the right t'e gel array nerth and that, if ntight atiriee an, it
ehnniti tn eeii the ahip in we rare tie, and, hay er
enether in eenntry, ‘i and,” eaid “P thtitatrh yen net get an
tree-ti ehijjr, yen they get nee ahie ennagh tn entry yea and aii gneda
ea
back again to Bengal, or anywhere else.” I told him I would take his advice
when I came to any port where I could nd a ship for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied I should meet with customers enough for the
ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back
again; and that he would procure me people both to buy one and sell the other.
“Well, but, seignior,” said I, “as you say they know the ship so well, I may,
perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest, innocent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps to be murdered in cold blood; for wher-
ever they nd the ship they will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this
was the ship; and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and murdered.”
“ Why,” says the old man, “I’ll nd out a way to prevent that also; for as I
know all those commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as
they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them
know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though the people who
were on board at rst might run away ,with the ship, yet it was not true that
they had turned pirates; and that, in particular, these were not the men that
rst went ‘off with the ship, but innocently bought her for their trade; and I am
persuaded they will so far believe me as at least to act more cautiously for the
time to come.” ' ‘
While these things were passing between ‘us, by way of discourse, we went
forward directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days’ sail came to an
anchor at the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nanquin ; where, by the
way, I came by accident to understand that two Dutch ships were gone the
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted
my partner again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and
would very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere; however, I was
not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was no creek
or harbour which I might put into and pursue my business with the Chinese
privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me if I would sail to
the southward about forty-two leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang,
where the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships
ever put in; and if I thought to put in there, I might consider what farther
course to take when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a
place for merchants, except that at some certain times they had a kind of a
fair there, when the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy Chinese
merchandises. '
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the port, as he called _, ,
it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly remember it, having
lost this, together with the names of many other places set down in a little
pocket-book, which was spoiled by- the water by an accident, which I shall relate
in its order; but this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we
corresponded with called it by a different name from that which our Portuguese
pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above, Quinchang.‘
Bo UND FOR QUINCHANG. 371
As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the
next day, having only gone twice on shore where we were, to get fresh water; on
both which occasions the people of the country were very civil to us, and brought
abundance of things to sell to us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice,
and some fowls 5 but nothing without money.
We did not come to the othenport (the wind being contrary) for ve days;
but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful, and I may say
thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it
was possible to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way, ‘though not every
way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel
more; and indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life that
ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely miserable as
that of being in constant fear. Well does the Scripture say, “The fear of man
bringeth a snare :” it is a life of death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it,
that it is capable of no relief, andall the vigour‘ of Nature which usually supports
men under other a‘lictions, and is present with them in the greatest exigencies,
fails them here. ‘ s
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heightening every
danger; representing the English and Dutch captains to be men incapable of
hearing reason, or of distinguishing between honest men and rogues; or between a
story calculated for our own tprn, made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive,
and a true genuine account -of our whole voyage, progress, and design; for we
might many ways have convinced‘ any reasonable creature that we were not
pirates; the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our frankly showing
ourselves, and entering into such and such ports; and even our very manner, the
force we had, the number of men, the few arms, the little ammunition, short
provisions; all these would have served to convince any men that we were no
‘pirates. The opium and other goods we had .on board would make it appear the
ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the names of all
the men that were in the ship, might easily see that we were a 'mixture of English,
Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These, and many
other particular circumstances, might have'made'it evident to the understanding of
any commander, whose hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But
fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another way, and threw us into the
vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set the imagination at work to form
a thousand terrible things that perhaps might never happen. We rst supposed,
as indeed- everybody bad related to us,‘that the seamen on board the English and
Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pirate,
and especially at our beating off their boats and escaping, that they would not
give themselves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no, but would execute
us off hand, without giving us any room for a defence. We reected that there
really was so much apparent evidence before them, that they would scarce
inquire after any more; as, rst, that the ship was certainly the same, and that
some of the seamen among them knew her, and had been on board her; and,
eeeeettly, that whee we at the rijrer ef Ceetlitedie thet they were
heating (thee te eeehttttte eel, theght their heats ehtl ee that we trteele rte
rleeht bet they were felty eetieerl. er’ eer heieg piretee were eetietieri.
ef the eeetrerr; eeri, he i. et’tett eat it ht’ttttr her her it eheeltl here apt
te litere teh illittltti eireereeteheee fer erhteeee, if the tehlee were terhetil, eeti thy
tree theirs; eeti reetie he eerep
le hf eetthtg ell the tree te pieeee, trttheet
er perhaps eeheithrihg, what they might te effer ie their
 
 
eetreeer eeeeeeeee he re ” t,
 
he let that he hew it with, these were eer eppreheeeiehe the heth eertrter
ttttt'l eeeree hitttitt; e eight witheet ef heltere aetl yertlerete, thet it re
hey, ef tightiegi, exert heihg teltee; et’” eert hillett; eeet I was eeeh t‘ttry ht titty ereeet, , teheyieg the Detehrheh heel heerrieti he,
ehrfl write heeehteg eee hf their eeeteee three, that i etreeh thy tietthle he
egeieet title ef the leer he with eeeh a three as treeetted rey ‘heed
hrehe heeehlee, eett eet eetl hreieeti. the tieeh, ee thet ‘it etrehetl
me her er”
heether eppreheheiee I, had tree, the ereet eeege we might meet ‘with freer there
it ere fell ihte their hehee there the etery ef herheyee eatee htte my head, eerl here“
 
 
ANXIO US M 501114 TJONS. 3-7 3
the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and make
some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never were
guilty of, or own themselves and all of us to be pirates, and so they would put
us to death with a formal appearance of justice; and that they might be tempted
to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth four or ve thou—
sand pounds altogether. '
These things tormented me, and my partner too, night and day; nor did'we
consider that the captains of ships had no authority to act thus; and if we had
surrendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the destroying us, or tor-
turing us, but would’be accountable for it when they came to their country ; this,
I say, gave me no satisfaction; for if they were to act thus with us, what advan-
tage would it be to us that they should be called to an account for it? or if
we were rst to be murdered, what satisfaction would it‘ be to us to have them
punished when they came home? , '
I cannot‘ refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had upon the vast
variety of my particular circumstances; how hard I thought it was that I, who
had spent forty years in a life of continual difficulties, and was at last come, as
it were, to the port or haven which all men drive at, viz., to have rest and.
plenty, should be a. volunteer in new sorrows by my own'unhappy choice; and
that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my youth,'-should now come to be
hanged in my old' age, and in so remote a place, for a crime which I was not
in the least inclined to, much less guilty of,
After these thoughts, something of religion would come in; and I would'be
considering that this seemed to me 'to be a disposition of immediate Providence,
and I‘ ought to look upon it‘ and submit to it as such; 'that although I was
innocent as to men, I was far from being innocent as"to my 'Maker; and 'I
ought to look in and examine what other crimes in my life were most obvious
to me, and for which Providence might justly inflict this punishment as a retri-
bution; and that I ought to submit to this just as I would to a shipwreck,
if it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place, and then I would
be talking myself up to vigorbusjresolutions; that I would not be taken'to be
_barbaro_usly used by a parcel of -merciless wretches in cold blood; that it were
much better to have fallen into the ‘hands of the savages, though I was sure they
would feast upon me when they had taken me, than those who would perhaps
glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and barbarities; that in the case of the
savages, I always resolved to die ghting to the last gasp, and why should I not
do ‘so now, seeing it was much more dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling
into these men’s hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men? for the
savages, give them their due, ‘would not eat a man till he was killed and dead,
but these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever ‘these
thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself into'a kind‘of fever with the agita-
tion of ‘a supposed ght; my blood would‘ boil, and my'ey‘e's sparkle, as'- if I-was
engaged, and I always resolved to‘t‘ake no quarter at their hands; but even, at
last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship and all that was in
hen-and leave them but little booty to boast ,of.
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these things were to our
thoughts while we were at sea, the' greater was our satisfaction when we saw
ourselves on shore; and my partner told me he dreamed that he had a very
heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that he
was not able to stand longer under it; but that the Portuguese pilot came and
took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the ground before him appearing
all smooth and plain: and truly it was so; they were all like’ men who had a
load taken off_ their backs. For my part, I had a weight taken off my heart that
it was not able any longer to bear; and as I Said above, we resolved. to go no
more to sea in that ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now
our friend, got us a lodging and a warehouse for our goods, which, by the way,
was much the same; it was a little house, or but, with a larger house adjoining
to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large canes, ‘to keep out
pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, there were not a few in that country: however,
the magistrates allowed us a little guard, and We had a Soldier With-a kind of
halberd, or half-pike, who'stood sentinel at our door; to whom we' allowed a pint
of rice, and a little piece of money, about the value of threepeuce, per day, so
that our goods were kept very safe. _
The fair, or mart, usually kept at this place, had been over some time:
however, we found that there were three or four junks in the river, and two
Japanners, I mean ships from Japan, with goods which they had bought in China,
and were not gone away, having some Japanese merchants on shore.
The rst thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us acquainted
with three missionary Romish priests who were in the town, and who had been
there some time converting the people to Christianity; but we thought they made
but poor work of it, and made them but sorry Christians when they had done:
however, that was none of our business. One of these was a,Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese; and the third a Genoese ;
Father Simon wa's courteous, easy in his manner, and very agreeable company;
the other two were more reserved, seemed ‘rigid and austere, and applied seriously
to the work they came about, viz., to talk with and insinuate themselves among
the inhabitants, whenever they had opportunity. We often ate and drank with
those men; and though, I must confess, the conversion, as they call it, of the
Chinese to Christianity is so far from-the true conversion required to bring
heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more than
letting them know the name of Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary
and her Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to cross themselves
and the like; yet it must he confessed that the religionists, whom we call
missionaries, have a rm belief that these people will be saved, and that they are
the instruments of it; and on this account, they undergo not only the fatigue of
the voyage, and the hazards of 'living in such places, but oftentimes death itself,
and ‘the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work.
FA THEE Smrozv. "75
But to return to my story :—-This French priest, Father Simon, was appointed,
it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat
of the Chinese emperor, and waited only for another priest, who was ordered ‘to
come to him from Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met
together but he was inviting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of ,that mighty empire, and, among the rest. the
greatest city in the world; “a city,” said he, “that your London and our Paris
put together cannot be equal to.” This was the city of Pekin, which, I confess,
is very great, and innitely full of people; but, as I looked on those things with
different eyes from those of other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a
few words, when I come in the course of my travels to speak more particularly of
But rst, I come to my friar or missionary. Diningwith him one day, and
being .very merry together, I showed some little inclination to go with him; and
he pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to
consent. “Why, Father Simon,” says my , partner, “should you desire our
company so much? you. know we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor
cannot keep us company with any pleasure.” “Oh,” says be, “you may perhaps
be good Catholics in time; my business here is to convert heathens, and who
knows but I may convert you too?” “Very well, Father,” said I, “so you will
preach to us all the way?” “I will not be troublesome to you,” says he; “our
religion does not divest us of good manners; besides, we are here like country—
men; and so we are compared to the place we are in; and if you are Huguenots
and I a Catholic, we may all be Christians at last; at least we are all gentlemen
and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one another.” I liked this
part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the Brazils ; but this Father Simon did not come up to his
character by a great deal; for ‘though Father Simon had no appearance of a
criminal levity in him, yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and
sincere affection to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had.
But to leave him a little, although he never left us, nor soliciting us to go
with him; we had something else before us at rst, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful
what we should do, for we were now in a place of very little business; and once
_I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the city of Nanquin;
but Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself
in our affairs; and I was encouraged, from this very time, to think I should, one
way or other, get out of this entangled circumstance, and be brought home to
my own country again, though I had not the least view of the manner. Provi-
dence, I say, began here to clear up our way a little; and the rst thing that
o'eredwas, our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
inquired what goods we had; and, in the rst place, he bought all our opium,
and gave us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some small
pieces of their own coin,. and some in small wedges, of about ten or twelve
ounces each. While we were dealing with him for our opium, it came into my
head that he might perhaps deal for the ship, too, and I ordered the interpreter
to propose it to him; he shrunk up his shoulders at it, when it was rst’
proposed to him; but in a few days _after he came to me, with one of the
missionary priests for his interpreter, and ,told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us, when he
had no thoughts of proposals made to him of buying the ship; and that, .
therefore, he had not money to pay for the ship; but if I would let the same
men who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to japan;
and would send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went from japan; and that at their
return he would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal, and so eager
did my head still run uponrambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a
notion of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the Philippine Islands
away to the South'Seas ; accordingly, I asked the Japanese merchant if he would
not hire us to the Philippine Islands and discharge us there. He said-no, he
could not do that, for then he could not have the return of his cargo; but he
would discharge us in Japan,‘ at the ship’s return. Well, still I was for taking
him at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner, wiser than myself,
persuaded me from it, representing the dangers as well of the seas as of the
Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the
Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to 21 Conclusion ; the rst thing we
, had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his men, and-
know if they were willing ‘to go .to Japan; and while I was doing this, the young
man whom my nephew had left with me as my companion for my travels came to
,me, and told me that he thought that voyage promised very. fair, and that there was
a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook'it; but
that if I would not, and would give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or
as I pleased to order him; that if ever he came to England, and was there and
alive, he would render me a faithful account of his success, which should be as
much mine as I pleased. I was really 10th to part with him; but considering the
prospect of advantage, which really was considerable, and that he was a young
fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but I.
told‘ him I would consult my partner, and give him an answer the next day. My
partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner made a most generous offer:'
“You knowit has been an unlucky ship,” said he, “ and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again 5' if your steward (so he called my man) will venture the
voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make the best
_of it; and if we live to meet in England, and he meets with success abroad, he
shall account for one half of the prots of the ship’s freight to us; the other shall
be his own.” _ I
. ‘If ‘my partner, who ‘was no way concerned with my young man, made him
such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same; and all the ship’s
IN CHINA. ' 372
company being willingto go with him, we made over half the ship to him in
property, ‘and -took a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other,
and away he went to Japan. The Japan‘ merchant prpved a very punctual, honest
man to him; protected him at Japan, and got him a licence to come onshore,
which the ‘Europeans, in general have 'not lately obtained; paid him his freight
very punctually; sent him" to the Philippines, loaded with japan and China wares,
and a supercargo of their own who, trafcking with the Spaniards, brought -back
European goods again, and a’ great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there
he was not only paid his freight very well, and at a very good, price, but not
being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods on his own
account; and with some money, and some spices of his own which he brought
with him, he went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his
cargo very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his
ship made a free ship, and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco,
in America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land here, and
to travel to Mexico, and to pass in, any Spanish ship to Europe with all his men.
He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold his ship;
and having .there‘also obtained allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he
‘found means, somehow or other, to get to jamaica with 1all his treasure; and,
about eight years after came to England, exceeding rich; of which I shall take
notice in its place; in the meantime I return to our particular affairs. t
Being now to part with the ship and ship’s company, it came before us, of
course, to consider what'recompense we should give to the two men that gave ‘us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was,
they had done us a very considerable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too; for, as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away with- the ship, they
came down to us, not only to betray the design that was formed against us, but
to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them confessed afterwards that nothing
else but the hopes of going a-roguing brought him to do it; however, the service
they did us was not the less, and therefore, as I-had promised to be grateful to
them, I rst ordered the money to be paid them which they said was due to them
'on board their respective ships; over and ‘above that, I gave each .of them a small
sum of money in gold, which contented them very well; then I made the English-
man gunner in the ship,'the gunner being now made second mate and purser;
the Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both'very well pleased, and proved
very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China: if I thought myself banished, and‘ remote
from my own country at Bengal, where I had many ways to get home for my
money, what could I think of myself now, when I was got about a thousand
leaguesjfarther off from home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of
return? - All we ‘had for it was this, that in about four months’ time .there was to
be another fair at the place where we were, and then we .might be able to pur-
.chase all sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal might possibly find
some Chinese junks or vessels from Tonquin that would be to be sold, and'would
carry us and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved
to wait; besides, as our particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any English
or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our
goods, and get passage to some other place in India nearer home. Upon these
hopes, we resolved to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or
three journeys into the country. First, we went ten days’ journey to the city of
Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, indeed; they say it has a million of people
in it; it is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another
in direct lines, which gives the gure of it great advantage. But when I come
to compare the miserable people of these countries with ours, their fabrics, their
manner of living, their government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory,
as some call it, I must confess that I scarcely think it worth my while to men-_
tion them here. It is very observable that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches,
the pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufactures, the commerce, and
conduct of these people; not that it is to be wondered at,. or, indeed, in
the least to be regarded, but because, having. a true notion of the barbarity of
those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance that prevail’ there, we do not
expect to nd any such thing so far off. Otherwise-what are their buildings to
the palaces and royal buildings of Europe P‘ What their trade to the universal
. commerce of England, Holland, France, and Spain? What are their cities to
ours for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel,'rich furniture, and innite variety?
What are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks, to our navigation,
our merchant eets, our large and powerful naviesP Our city of London has
more trade than half their mighty empire‘; one English, Dutch, or French man-
of-war of eighty guns, would be able to ght almost all the shipping belonging
to China; but the greatness of their wealth, their trade, the power‘ of their
government, and the strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to us
because, as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of Pagans, little
better than savages, we did not expect such things‘among them; and this, indeed,
is the advantage with which all ‘their ‘greatness and power is represented to us; ‘
otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; for what I have said of their ships may
be said of their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire, though they
were to bring two millions of men into the eld together, would be able to do
nothing but ruin the country, and starve themselves, if they were to besiege a
strong town in Flanders, or to ght a disciplined army; one good line of German
cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all the horse of China; a
million of their foot would not standbefore one embattled body of our infantry,
posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were not to be one to twenty
in number; nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty thousand German or English
foot, and ten thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the forces of China.
And so‘ of our fortied towns, and of the art of our engineers in assaulting and
defending towns; there is not a fortied town in China could hold out one
month against the- batteries and attacks of an European army; and, at the same
WE SET OUT FOR PEKIN. 379
time, all the armies of China could never take such a town as Dunkirk,
provided it was not- starved; no, not in ten years’ siege. They had re-arms,
it is true, but they are awkward and uncertain in their going off ;. and their
powder has but little strength. Their .armies are badly disciplined, and. want‘skill
to attack, or temper to retreat; and therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange
to me, when I came home, and heard our people say such ne things of the
power, glory, magnicence, and trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw,
they appeared to be a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves,
subjected to a government qualied only to rule such a people; and were not
its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and the Muscovite ‘empire in a
manner as rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the Czar of Muscovy might
with ease drive them all out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign;
and had the Czar (who is now a growing prince) fallen this way, instead of
attacking the warlike Swedes, and equally improved himself in the art of war, as
they say {he has done, and »if none of the powers of Europe had envied or
interrupted him, he might by this time have been Emperor ofuChina', instead of.
being beaten by the King of Sweden at. Narva, when~the~ latter was not one to,
six in number. As their strength and their grandeur, so their- navigation,
commerce, and husbandry, are very imperfect, compared ‘to the same things in
Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning, ‘and in their skill in the sciences,
they are either very awkward or defective, ' though they have globes ‘or spheres,
and a. smattering of the mathematics, and think they 'know. ~_ more than all the
world besides; but they know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies;
‘and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common people, that when the
sun ,is eclipsed, they think a great dragon‘_has assaulted it, and is goingto run
away with it; and they fall a clattering with all_ the drums and kettles in the
country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.
As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have» made in all the
accounts I have given of my travels, so I shall make no. more‘ such; it- is none
of my business, nor any part of my design; but to give an account of my own
adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long variety of changes,-
which, perhaps, few that come after me will have heard the like of; I shall there-
fore say very little of allpthe mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people,
‘I have yet to pass through,'more than relates to my own story, and which my
concern among them make necessary.
I was now, as near as I can compute, .in the heart of China, about thirty
degrees north of the line, for we were returned to Nanquin. I had, indeed, a
mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so ‘much of, and Father Simon
importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being set, and
the other missionary who was _to go with him being- arrived from Macao, it was
necessary that we should resolve either to go, or not; so I referred it whollyto
my partner, and left it wholly -to his choice, who at length resolved it in the
affirmative, and we prepared for our journey. We set out with very good advan-i
tage,. as to nding the way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of
gem eersweir ewe
their msetieries, et’ rieerey er priheipsl magistrate is the hrerirtee where
t'li'tey reside, she whe tshe great state spew there, trsrellieg with great stteethteee,
ehtil greet her/wage freer the peehle, whe ere greatly httpeserishetl there, heirtg ehhgetl te tarnish prerisiehs fer there all their stteettehts is
jeereeys. ’ii’hst whieh jjtsrtieetsrly ehserred. ht ear trsvellihg with his
 
”
this, thet theegh we reeeired seffieieht prerisiees heth fer eerselres
seat her freer the heeetry, es heteegieg tie the etseeerie, yet we were
“ts fer we heel, after the weather tsetse ef the eeeetry, see
teshdsrih’s stewsrti eell'eetetl thtly here we; as that leer trsrellhtg hr the
retiree the etshttsrie, tlitee’gh it was at very greet te we, was set seeh
e htreer is hhe, her were re greet etirehtsge ts hire, eeesirterieg ‘there
were where ether steeple trsreltett hr same erseeer ‘ es, series
the preteetiert ef thtttttte; the eeeetry thrhisheti sit the presisiees fer
tee hire, shtt yet its “their/‘est messy tier ' '
 
 
 
 
ON .THE PVA Y T0 PEKZN. 38 r
We were twenty-ve days travelling to Pekin, through a country innitely
' populous, but I think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the economy, and the
way of living miserable, though they boast so much of the industry of the people;
,I say miserable, if compared with our own, but not so to these poor wretches,
who know no other. The pride of the people is innitely great, and exceeded
by nothing but their poverty, in. some parts, which adds to_ that which I call
their misery; and I must needs think the native savages of America live much
more happy than the poorer sort of these, because as they'have nothing, so they
desire nothing; whereas, these are proud and insolent, and in, the main are in
many parts mere beggars and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible ; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last
‘degree ridiculous, as well as the contempt of all the world but themselves.
_ I .must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts_and vast
wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here, and yet the roads here, are well paved
and well kept, and very convenient for travellers ; butnothing .was more awkward
to. me than ,to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent people,’ inmthe midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; ‘and my friend Father Simon apd I used
to ble'very merry upon these .occasions, vto see the beggarly pride. of these people.
For example, coming by the house of a country gentleman, as ,Father Simon
called-him, about ten leagues off the city of Nanquin, we had “rst of all the
honour to ride with the master. of the house about two miles; the state he rode
in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture. of pomp and poverty. His
habit was very ‘proper for a‘ scaramouch, or merry-andrew, being a. dirty calico,
with hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side: it
covered a iaffety vest, as greasy as a'butcher’s,. and which testied that his honour
must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling
creature, and he had two slaves followed him on foot to‘ drive the poor creature
along; he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured- the‘ beast as fast about
the head as his. slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us, with about
ten .or twelve servants, going from the city to his country seat about half a
“league before us. .We travelled on gently, but this gure of a gentleman rode
away before us; and as we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us,
when we came by the country seat; of this great man, we saw him in a little
place before his door, eating a repast. It [was a kind of garden, but he was
easy to be seen; and we were given :.to understand that the more we looked at
him the better he would be pleased. ‘ He sat under a tree, ‘something like the
' palmetto, which effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south. side;
but under the tree was placed. a large umbrella, which made that part look‘ well
enough; He -sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpulent
man, and had his meat brought him by two women slaves. He had two more,
one of whom fed ‘i the squire'with a spoon, and ‘the other held the dish with
one hand, and scraped off .what he‘ let fall upon his worship’s. beard ,and taffety
'vest. '
- Thus leaving the poor wretch to *please himself with our looking at him, as if
we admired his pomp, though we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued
our journey; only Father Simon had the curiosity to staytto inform himself
what dainties the country justice had to feed- on in all his state, which he had
the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a mess of boiled rice, with a
' great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag lled with green pepper, and another
plant which they have there, something like our ginger, but smelling like musk,
and tasting like mustard; all this was put together, and a small ‘piece of lean
mutton boiled in it, and 'this was his worship’s repast. Four or ve servants more
attended at a distance, who we supposed-were to eat of the same after their
master. -
As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected as a king,
surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with
such pomp, that I saw little of him but at a’ distance. But this I observed, that
there was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers’ paekhorses in England
seemed to me to look much better; though it was hard to judge rightly, for they
were so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings, 310-, that we could scarce see
anything but their feet and their heads as they Went along.
I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have given
an account of being over, I had no anxious'thoughts about me, which made this
journey the pleasanter to me; nor had I any ill accident attended me, only in
passing or fording a small river, my horse fell, and made me free of the country,
as they call it—that is to say, threw me in. The place was not deep, but it
wetted me all over. I mention it because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I
had set down the names of several people and places which I had occasion ‘to
remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and the words
were never after to be read, to my great loss, as to the names of some of the
places I touched at in this journey. ‘
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me but the youth whom
my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a servant, andlwho proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner. had nobody with him but one servant,
who was a kinsrnan. As for the ‘Portuguese pilot, he being desirous. to see the
court, we bore his charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, .for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke good French and a little
English; and indeed this old man was a most useful implement to us everywhere;
for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he came laughing. “Ah,
Seignior Inglese,” says he, “I have something to tell will make your heart glad.”
“ My heartglad,” says I, “what can that .be? I don’t know anything in this
country can either give me joy or grief to any great degree.” “Yes, yes,” says
the old man in broken English, “make you glad, me sorry.” “Why,” said I,
“will it make you sorry?” “Because,” said he, “you have brought me here
twenty-ve days’ journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and which way shall
I get to my port afterwards, without a ship, without ahorse, without ame?”—
so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make
us merry with. In short, he told us that there was a great caravan of Muscovite
PREPARA TJONS FOR DEPARTURE. 38 3
and Polish merchants in the city,.preparing to set out on their journey by land to
Muscovy, within four or ve-weeks; and he was sure we would take the oppor-
tunity to go with them, and leave him behind to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had scarce power
to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to him. “How do you
know this?" said I: “are you sure it is true?” “Yes,” says he; “I met
this morning in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is
among them. He came last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin,
where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to
go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to Astracan.”
“Well, Seignior,” says I, “do not be uneasy about being left to go back alone;
if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be your fault if you go
back to Macao at all.” We then went to consult together what was to be done;
and I asked my partner what he thought of the pilot’s news, and whether it would
suit with his affairs? He told me he would do just as I would; for he had settled
all his affairs at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands, that as we had
made a good voyage here, if he could invest it in China silks, wrought and raw,
such as might be worth the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and
then make his voyage back to Bengal by the Company’s ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese pilot would go
with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow,. or to England, if he pleased;
nor, indeed, were We to be esteemed over-generous in that either, if we had not
rewarded him farther, the service’ he had done us being really worth more than
that;_ for he had not only been a pilot to ‘us at sea, but he had been like a
broker for us. on shore; and his procuring for us the japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about it, and being
willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice, and very willing also to
have him with us besides, for. he was. a most necessary man on all occasions, we
agreed to give him a quantity of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to
about one hundred and seventy-ve pounds sterling, between us, and to bear all
his charges, both for himself and horse, except only. a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him know what we
had resolved. I told him he had complained of our being willing -to let him go
back alone, and I was now about to tell him we were resolved he should not go
back at all; that as we had resolved to go to, Europe with the caravan, we resolved
also he should go with us; and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his
head and said it was a long journey, and that he had no [became to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we believed it
was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something for him that should let
him see how sensible we were of the service he .had done us, and also how
agreeable he was to us; and then I told him what we had resolved to give him
here, which he might lay out as we would do our own; and that as for his
charges, if he would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in- Muscovy or England, which he would, at our own charge,
except only the carriage of his goods. He received the proposal like a man
transported, and told us he would go with .us over the whole world; and so we
all prepared for our journey. However, as it was with us so' it was with the other
merchants; they had many things to do, and instead of being ready in ve weeks,
it- was four months and some days before all things were got together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out from Pekin.
My partner and the old pilot had gone‘ express back to the. port where we had
rst put in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there; and I, with a
Chinese merchant whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to
Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces of ne '
damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very ne silks of several sorts,
some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against my partner’s
return; besides this, we bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other
goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, to about three thousand ve
hundred pounds sterling; which, together with tea and some ne ‘calicoes, and
three camels’ loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all‘ eighteen camels for our
share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare horses, and
two horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six horses and- camels
in our retinue.
The company was very great, and, as far as I can remember, madebetween
three and four hundred horse, and upwards of one hundred and twenty men, very
well armed, and provided for all eyents; for as the Eastern caravans are subject
to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but they are not
altogether-so dangerous as .the' Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations; but there were'about
sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were
Livonians; and to our- particular satisfaction, ve of them were Scots, who
appeared also to be men of great experience in business, and of very good
substance. - ‘ '
When we had travelled one day’s journey, the guides, who were ve in number,
‘called all the gentlemen-and merchantsw-that is to say, all the passengers except
the servants—to a great council, as they called it. At this council, every one
deposited a certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and
for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like; and here they constituted
the journey, as they call it, viz., they named captains and officers to draw us all
up, and give the word of command, in case' of an attack, and give every one their
turn of command; nor was this forming us into order any more than what- we
found needful on the way, as shall be observed. _
The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is full of
potters and earth-makers---that is to say, people that temper the earth for the China
ware; and as I was coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had always something
or other to say to make us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would show
me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should have this to say of
 
I M
W 10/” ‘if
“a?”
"WM/aw
mwi'l/wmm
 
‘14%
a
 
 
 
 
 
 
A HOUSE OF CHINA PVARE. 385
China, after all the ill-humoured things that I ‘had said of it, that I had seen one
thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was“ very importunate
to know what it was; at last he told me it ‘was a gentleman’s house built with
China ware. “Well,” says I, “are not the materials of their buildings the product
of their own country? and so it is all China. ware, is it not?”
he, “I mean it is a house all made of China ware, such as you call it in England, or
‘as it is called in our country, porcelain.” “Well,” says I, “such a thing may be.
How big is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can, we will
buy it." “Upon a camel!” 'says the 01d pilot, holding up both his hands;
“why, there is a family of thirty people lives in it.”
I was then curious, indeed, to see it; but‘ when I came to it, it was nothing
but this: it was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in England, with
lath and plaster; but all this plastering was really China‘ ware-“that is to say, it
was plastered \with the earth that makes China ware. The outside, which the
sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly white, and
painted with blue gures, as the large China ware in England -is painted, and
hard as if it had been burned. As to. the inside, all the walls, instead of
wainscot, were lined with hardened and painted tiles, like the little square tiles
we call galley-tiles in‘ England, all made of the nest China, and the gures
exceedingly ne indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold,
“No, no,” says ‘
many tiles making but one gure, but joined "so articially,’ the mortar. being'made ‘
of the same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. T heoors
of the rooms were of the same Composition, and as hard as the earthen floors.
we have ‘in use in several parts of England; as hard as stone, and smooth, but-
not burned and painted, except some smaller'rooms, like closets, which were all,
as it were, paved with the same tile; the ceiling and all the plastering work in
the whole house were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with
tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black. This was a China warehouse
indeed, truly and literally to be called so, and had I not been upon the journey,
I could have stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it. They
told me ‘there were fountains and sh-ponds in the garden, all paved on the
bottom and sides with the same; and ne statues set up in rows on the walks,
entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burned whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to excel
in it; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of it; for they told me
such incredible things of their performance in ,crockeryavare, for such it is, that
I care not to relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in particular,
of one workman that made a ship, with all its tackle, and masts, and sails in
earthenware, big enough to carry fty men. If they had told me ‘he launched it, and
made a voyage to japan in it, I might have said something to it indeed; but as
a
it was, I knew the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the
word, that the fellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the’ leader of -
it for the day ned me about the value of three shillings, and told me if it had
25 .
been three days’ journey without the wall, as it was three days within, he must have
ned me four times as much, and made me ask pardon the next council day. I
promised to be more orderly; and, indeed, I found afterwards the orders made
for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for our common safety.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a fortication
against the Tartars ; and a very great work it is, going over hills and mountains
in a needless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as
no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or' where, if they did, no
wall could hinder them. They tell us. its length is near a ‘thousand English
miles, but that the country is ve hundred in a straight measured line, which tlie
wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it takes; it is about four
fathoms high, and as many thick in some places.
I stood still an hour or thereabouts without trespassing our orders (for so long
the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at it on every side, near and far off,
I mean what was within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who had been
extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of
it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep out the Tartars ; which he
happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment; but
the old pilot laughed, “Oh, Seignior Inglese,” says he, “you speak in colours.”
“ In colours!” said I; “what do you mean by that?” “Why, you speak what
looks white this way, and black that way—gay one Way, and dull another. You
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for
nothing but to keep out Tartars. ' I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand
you; but Seignior Chinese understood you his own way.” '“Well,” says I,
‘,‘seignior, do you think it would stand out an army of our country people, with a
good train of artillery? or our engineers, with two companies of miners? Would
not they batter it down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia? or blow
it up in the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?”
“Ay, ay,” says he, “I know that.” The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I
said, and I‘ gave him leave to, tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their country, and he was to leave us a little time after this; but when he‘
knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more
of his ne story of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like the Picts’
wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we began to nd the
country thinly inhabited, and the people rather conned to live in fortied towns
or cities, as being subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who
rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants
of an open country. And here I began to nd the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars roving
- about; but when I came to ‘see them distinctly, I wondered more that the
Chinese Empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for they are
a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline
or manner of ght. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and t
\
AN ENCOUNTER WITH TARTARS. 387
for nothing; and this we found the rst day we saw them, which was after we
entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for the day gave leave for about
sixteen of us to go a~hunting as they call it; and what was this but hunting of
sheep! However, it may be called hunting, too, for the creatures are the wildest
and swiftest of ‘foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they appear
generally thirty or forty in a ock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when
they y. v
In pursuit of this odd .sort of game, it was our hap to meet with about forty
Tartars ; whether they were hunting mutton, as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, we know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them
blew a kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never
heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all supposed this
was to call their friends about them, and so it was; for, in less‘ than ten minutes,
‘a troop of forty or fty more appeared, at about a mile distance; but our work
was over rst, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us, and as
soon as he heard the horn, he told us that we had nothing to do but to charge
them immediately, without loss of time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if
we were resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him; so he rode
directly tOWaTdS them- They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in
no order, nor showing the face of any order at all; but as soon ‘as they saw us
advance, they let y their arrows, which, however, missed us, very happily :/ {it
seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance; for their arrows all/{ell a
little, short of uS, but with so true an aim, that had we been about twenty yards
nearer, we must have had several men wounded, if not killed-
Immediately We halted, and though it was at a great distance, we red, and
. sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot full-gallop, to fall
in among them sword in hand—for so our bold Scot that led us directed.,.-r"He
was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved with such vigour and bravery on
this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that I never saw any man in
action tter for command. As soon as we came up to them, we red our pistols
in their faces, and then drew; but they ed in the greatest confusion imaginable.
The only stand any of them made was on our right, where three of them stood,
and, by signs, called the rest to come back to them, having a kind‘of scimitar in
their hands, and their bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, with-
out asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and with his fusee
knocks one of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the third
ran away; and thus ended our ght; but we had this misfortune attending it,
that all our mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a man killed or
hurt; but as for the Tartars, there were about ve of them killed; how many
were wounded we knew not; but this we knew, that the other party were so
frightened with the noise of our guns, that they made off, and never made any
attempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the Tartars
were not so bold as afterwards ; but in about ve days we entered a vast, great, '
wild desert, which held as three days and nights’ march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us, in great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as
I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.
I asked our guides whose dominion this was in, and they told me this was a
kind of border, that might be called no man’s land, being a part of Great
Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; that, however, it was all reckoned as belonging to
China, but that there was no care taken here to preserve it from the inroads of
‘thieves, and ‘therefore it was reckoned the worse desert in the whole march,
though we were to go over some much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which was at rst very frightful to me, we saw, two
or three times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own
affairs, and to have no design upon us; and SO, like the man who met the
devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them: we let '’
them-go. Once, however, a party of them came so near as .to stand and gaze
at us: whether it was to consider if they should attack ‘~18 01' not, We knew not;
but when we had passed at some distance by them, we made a rear guard of
forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan pass half a mile or
@thereabouts before us, but after a while they marched off; only we found they
saluted us with ve arrows at their parting, which wounded a horse so that it,
disabled him, and we left him the next day, poor Creature, in great need of a good
farrier: tliey might shoot‘more arrows, which might fall short of us; but we saw
no more arrows or Tartars that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so good as at rst,
though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the most part
’ in thei villages, some of which were fortied, because of the incursions of the ‘
Tartars When we were come to one of these towns (it was about two days and .
a l1alf’S\
qprney before we came ‘to the city of Naum), I wanted to buy a camel,
Of which there ‘are plenty to be ‘sold all the way upon that road, and horses also,
such as they age, because, so many caravans coming that way, they are often
Wanted. The person that I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone and
fetched one for me, but I, like a fool, must be ofiicious, and go. myself along with
him; the place was about two miles out of the village, where, it seems, they kept
the camels and horses feeding, under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being very desirous of a
little variety. When we came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, walled
round with a stone wall, piled ‘up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like‘a
Park, With a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought'a camel,
and agreed for the price, I came away, and the Chinese man thatwent ‘with me
led this’ Camel, when on a sudden came up veiTartars on hor'séback. Two of
them seized the fellow and took the camel from him, ‘while the other three
Stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us,.a's it were,'unarmed, for I had no
weapon about me but -my sword, which could but ill defend me against three
 
 
 
heteeeten. The feet that eeete rte stepped ehett ripen my titewie re ewettl, fer
they errant eewertie fret e eeeeee, teeming epee my left, gate tilete my},
heed, whieh I never felt till end. wetttieteeli, gmm m
myself, what the matter, and. where was, fer; trig, mm, W, mg a gmw
liter my eitl pilet, the liettegeeet ee lirevitieeee, Wigwam {my frrae eiaegere 'ttii’liitZ/ifit te. ee enter a, 1mm} in, My, Wmkw
with?“ WW” miiiiiiiiti iii; tier either; if they heat, I etteteiree
 
 
eretee tee eeeeee were etetet.” t
weeiti net etteeiteti as; time eewertle else, ‘ ' ~ ’ ere re rte
eta te the
n
eiti mart me tiewrr, with e litttlti . p ,
feilew that had etteeit me, and laying helti ef with enter hetrtfl, anti tlewe by meie feree iittle tevetrtie him, the ether sleet him in heed,
iei tieeti ripen ie'etr ' I, tittfit lift iiifft “Whit
heel. etejfttireri es, trefete teelti tifijrrwerti made a hirer
at him e eeietitet, wirieh he were, first tt'ttttt, etreelt heme it’t eitle e'f eet ene ef eff reet, anti a great
eliee tiewtt by the ef hie peer bearer, entered witiit the weeeri, wee
 
 
 
 
rte mete he gave/teed ey hie rider, the tee, bet
away he tiee, eeti eetriee hire. eeite eet ef the piletie at tiietetree,
rising 'tttitttft hieti threw tiewe “Fetter, earl l. epee '
 
 
In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, but he had
no weapon; however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse, fallen upon him,
away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his.
side, something like a poleaxe, but not a poleaxe neither, he wrenched it from
him, arid made shift to knock. his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man
had the third Tartar to deal with still; and seeing he did not y, as he‘ expected,
nor come on to ght him, as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old man
. Stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle to charge his pistol again; but, as
soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left my pilot, my
champion I called him afterwards, a complete victory.
By this time ‘I was a little recovered; for I thought, when I rst began to
wake, that I had been in a’ sweet sleep; but, as I said above, I wondered where
I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was the matter; but a few
moments after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know where; so I
clapped my‘ hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I felt my head
ache; and th n in a moment memory returned, and everything was present to me
again, I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but no
enemies were in view; I found a Tartar lying dead, and his horse standing very
quietly by him; and, looking farther, I saw my champion and deliverer, who had
been to set what the Chinese had done, coming back with his 'hanger in his
Thand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced
m‘ewvith a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and
" seeingumelbloody, would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
.. “mean a broken head; neither did I afterwards nd any great inconvenience from
the blow, for it was well again'in two or three days.
) ,lVe matxle no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a camel and
ga‘Qeti a horse. But that which was remarkable, when we came back to the
‘Villas?’ the man demanded to he paid for the camel; I disputed it, and it was
brought a hearing before the Chinese judge of the place. To give him his
d with a great. deal of prudence and impartiality; and, having ‘heard
both sides, 11 gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy the
Camel, Whose Servant he was? “ I am no servant," says he, “ but went with the
 
 
,5 .
Strangen” “ At whose request?” says the justice. “At the stranger’s request,“
says he. “.Why, then,” says the justice, “you were’ the stranger’s servant for the
time ; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and
he must pay for it.” _
I confess the thing, was so clear, that I had not a word to say; but, admiring
to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and an accurate stating of
the case, I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another; but, you may
observe, I did not go to fetch it myself any more, for I had had enough of
that. , i
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese Empire; they call it forti-
ed, and SO it is, as fortications go there; for this I will venture to airm,
that all the Tartars in,Karakathay, ‘which, I believe, are some millions, could not
_miles beyond the city. .
ANOTHER ALARM. 391. '
batter down the walls with their bows and arrows; but _ to call it strong, if it
were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who understand it laugh at
you. ' '
We wanted, as I have said, above two days’ journey of this city, when
messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell all travellers and
caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for them; for that an unusual‘ body
of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty.
This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully done of the
governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly,
two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a. garrison of the
‘Chinese, on our left, and three hundred more from the city of Naum, and with
these We advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from. Naum marched in our
front’ the two hundred in our ‘rear, and our men on each side of our camels,
with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the Centre; in .this order, and we“
prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the Whole ten thousand
Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it
was quite another thing, ..
It was early‘ in the morning, when marching from a well-situated little town,
called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were obliged to ferry; and, had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us,
when the caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but they did not appear
",‘\there. About three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at hand: and they were at hand, indeed, for they came on upon the
spur. . ,
The Chinese, our guard in the front, who had talked so big the day before,
began to‘ stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked behind them, which is a
certain sign in a soldier that he ‘is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of
my mind‘: and being near me, called out: “Seignior Inglese,” says he, '“ those
fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on,
they will never stand it.” “I am of your mind,’’, says I; “but what must be
done?” “ Done!” says he, “let fty of our men advance, and ank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will ght like brave fellows in brave
company; but without this they will every man turn his back.” Immediately, I ,
rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and ‘accord-
ingly fty of us marched to -the right wing, and fty to the left, and the rest
made a line of rescue ; and so we ‘marched, leaving the last two hundred men to
make a body by themselves, and to guard the camels; only that, if need were,
they should send a hundred men to assist the last fty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they were;
how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least; a
party of them came on rst, and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the
,front of our line; and, as we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the
‘two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with their
shot, which was done; and they went off, I suppose back, to give an account of
the reception they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute cloyed their
stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider it, and wheeling
off to the left, they gave over their design, and said no more to us for that
time; which was very agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very
indifferent for a battle with such a number.
Two days after, we came to the city of Naun, or Naum: we thanked the
governor for his care of us, and collected to the value of a hundred crowns, or
thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us‘; and here we rested
one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept
here; but the reason of .it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer
to them than they do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part of the
country, which lies from this .city west for about‘ two hundred miles, as desolate
and unt for use; and more especially being} so very remote, and so difcult to
send troops thither for its defence; for we were yet above two thousand miles
from Muscovy, properly so called. ‘ i '
After this, we passed Several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts; one of
which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as I said, was to be called
no‘ man’s land; and, on the r3th of April, we Came to the frontiers of the
Muscovite dominions. I think the rst town or fortress, whichever it may be.
called, that belonged to the Czar of l\Iuscovy, was called Arguna, being on, the
west side of the river Arguna. \
I could not but discover an innite satisfaction that I was so soon arrived in,
as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a country governed by
Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the
name of Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very devout in their way.
It would certainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and
who had any power of reection, what a blessing it is to be brought into the
world where the name of God. and a Redeemer \is known, adored, and worshipped;
and not where the people, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, worship the
devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements,
horrid-shaped animals, and'statues or. images of monsters; Not a town or city we
passed through but had their pagodas, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant
people worshipping even the works of their own hands. ' Now we came where,at
least, a face of the Christian worship appeared; where the knee was bowed to
Jesus ; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and
the name of the true God was called upon and adored; and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned above with my
rst acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the hand, I said to him,
“Blessed be God, we are once again among Christians.” ‘He smiled and
answered, “Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd
sort of ;Christians;_and but for the name of it, ,you may see very little of "the.
substance for some months farther of our journey.” “Well,” says I, “but still it is
I
better than paganism and worshipping of devils.”
ENTRANCE INTO THE 1!! USCO VITE DOMINJONS. 39 3
‘f Why, I will tell you,” says he,
“except ‘the Russian soldiers in the garrison, and a few of the inhabitants of the
cities upon the‘ road, all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles
farther, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of. pagans.” And so, indeed,
we found it. , _ _ ' i I '
We were now. launched into the greatest piece of solid ‘earth, if I understand
anything of the surface of the globe, 'that is to be found in any part of -the world;
we had, at least, twelve thousand‘ miles to the sea, eastward; two thousand to the.
bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea,
and went on west, to the British and French channels: we had full ve thousand
miles to the Indian or Persian Sea, south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen
Sea,-north. Nay, if some people may be believed, there ‘might be no sea north‘
east till we came round the Pole,‘ and consequently into the north-west, and so had
a continentof land into America,‘ the Lord knows where j,’ though I could give
. some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake.‘
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before we came to
any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe there but this: rst, that all
the rivers rim to the east; as I understood by the "charts, which some in ‘our
caravan had with them, it was plain. all 'those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or. Gamour; which river, by the natural course .of it, must run, into the
East Sea,‘ or Chinese Ocean. The-story they tell us, that the mouth of this river
is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous g'rowtlr---viz., three feet about, and
twenty or thirty feet high—I must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of it; but,
as its navigation is of no use, because there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to
whom it alone belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody that ever I heard
of has‘ been curious enough either to go down to the mouth of it‘ in boats, or
‘come up from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can nd; but this is certain,
that this river running east, in the latitude of about 50 degrees, carries a vast con-
course of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude;
so we are sure of sea there. I
Some leagues to the north of this river, there are several considerable rivers,
whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs east, and these are all found
to join their waters with the great river Tarta‘rus, named so from the northern;
most nations of the Mogul Tartars; who, as the Chinese say, were the ' rst
'I‘ar'tars‘ in the world; and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and
Magog ‘mentioned in sacred history. These rivers running all northward, as well
-as all the other rivers“ I am‘ yet to speak. of, "make it ‘evident that the- Northern
- Ocean bounds the lands also on that side; so that it does not seem rational in
the least to think. that the land can extend itself to join with America on that
side, or that there-is not a communication between the Northern and Eastern
'Ocean; but of this I shall. say no more; 'it' was my observation at‘ that time,
and therefore I take notice of it in this place. ‘ - ‘ i . ' "
We now advanced froin the river Arguna by easy and moderate ‘journeys, and
‘were very visibly obliged to the care the- Czar of ' Muscovy has taken to have
eitiee attd tewee htttlt ht at etaey piaeee at it it ,tjteaeihie ta piaee theta, where
hie aehiieta gattiaett, eeteethieg the atatieaary aeitiiete platted he the
iteetaae ta the teateteet eeaatriee at their empire; eatee at whieh I had teed
at were ht htitaitt, fer the eeeatity ef eemetetee, and fat the ledgieg at
ttateileta: aeti. that it was fer whatever we eatee, theagh at theae tewtta
aett etatieae the gartiaeha atttl gettetaete wete Rttaeiaae aett preteaeed tihtiettatta,
yet the hthalititattta wete there ttagatta 5, eaetiheieg te idela, aitttl werehiepiag the
the, teeea, aett etata, et all the heat at heaeee; arid her they ae, hat teeth, at
 
t
ah the heatheae aati ttagatta that heat it, that with, the meet hathatetta, eaeetfitt
eely that they that eat eat ateeh hath, ae eat aavagea ef etteetiea that.
iaetaaeea eqf thie we that with ht eeaetty l'tetweee htgttaa, whete
we eater the detetaieae, the a eity at 'iliiattata 'ihaeeiatte tegethet,
eatietl Netttieeahy, ht whieh ia eeettaaed deaett at threat, whyieh eeet .tweety
te ttaeet eeet. itt a tillage heat the teat at theee I had the
etttieaity te ttttti theit way at whieh tweet tittetieh aetl ieeetfetahle
‘They had, I aeetiteee, a gteat eaetthee that far there eteeti eat, epett are we
etattte et’” tree, art idel made at wheel, ftightfttl at the detail 5, at ieaet, aeym
thieg we trait thihh at th tettteeeet the devil eatt he made I; it had a head eat
teeetehlieg aay teeatete that wetid eeet aaw; eara ae htg heme,
attti at, eyee at etewa eteee; at aeee iilte a eteelteti teeth hath,
AN IDOL.- ‘ 395
and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,-with horrible teeth,
hooked like a parrot’sunder bill: it was dressed up in the lthiest manner that
You Could Supposeir its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the W001
outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it;
it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor-any other proportion of
parts. _
This scarecrow was set up at the outer Side of the vintage; and when I came
near to 'it, there were sixteen or seventeen Creatures—~whether men or women I
could not tell, for they made no distinction by their habits—--all lying at upon the
ground round this formidable block of shapeless wood; I saw no motion among
them, any more than if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and at rst
I really thought they had been so; but when I came a little nearer, they started
up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry, as if it had been so many deep
mouthed bounds, and walked away, as if they were displeased, at our disturbing
them. A little way off from the idol, and at the door 'of a tent- or hut, made
all of sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three but¢hets'.....1 thought.they were
such when I came nearer to them, for I found they- had long knives in their
hands; and in the middle of the tent'appeated three sheep killed, and one- young
bullock, 0r Steer. The'se, it seems, were sacrices to that senseless log.of an idol;
the three men were priests‘ belonging to it, and the Seventeen pmstmted wretches
were the people who brought the offering,‘ and Wet‘? making their prayers to that
stock. - ' - '
,1 Confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a
hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my 1ife,..___._to see God’g most g1 orious and
best creature, to whom He had granted so many advantages, even by creation,
above the rest of the works of His hands, vested with a reasonablesoul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to .honour his Maker
and to be honoured by Him, sunk and degenerated to a degree so very stupid
as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary object dressed up
by themselves and made terrible to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned.
‘only with clouts and rags,--and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself, ‘who, envying his Maker the
' homage and adoration -of His creatures, had deluded them into such sordid and
brutish things as‘ one would think would shock ‘Nature itself!
But what signied all the astonishment and reection of thoughts? And thus
it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to wonder at it, or
think-it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage, and I rode up to the
image or monster—call it what you will----and with my sword made a stroke at the
bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two‘; and one of our men that was
with me took hold of the sheepskin that covered it, and pulled at it, when,
behold, a most hideous outcry and howling ran through the village, and two
or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it,
for we saw some had some bows and arrows; but I resolved from that moment
to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles off,
in order to provide some horses which they wanted, several of the horses having
been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way and long march over the last
desert; so we had some leisure .here to put my design in execution. I
communicated it to the Scots merchant of 'Moscow, of whose courage I had
sufficient testimony; I told him what I had seen, and with what indignation I had
since thought that human nature could be so degenerate; I told him if I could
get but four or ve men well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and
destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no power to help
itself, and consequently'could not be an object of worship, or to he prayed to,
much less help them that offered sacrices to it.
He laughed at me; says he, “Your zeal may be good, but what do you
propose to yourself by it?” “Propose!” said I, “to vindicate the honour of God,
which is insulted by this devil-worship.” “But how will it vindicate the honour of
God,” said he, “while the people will not be able to know what you mean by it,
unless you could speak to them, and tell them so? and then“ they will ght, you, ..
and beat you, too, I assure you ;' for they are desperate fellows, and that
especially in defence of their idolatry.” “Can We not," Said I, “do it in the
night, and then leave them the reasons and the causes in Writing in their own
language?” “Writing i” said he; “why, there is not a man, in ve nations of
them that knows anything of a letter, or how to read a word any way.”
“Wretched ignorance !” said I to him; “however, I have a great mind to do it;
perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them see'how brutish
they are .to worship such horrid things.” “Look you, sir,” said he; “if your zeal
prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I would
have you consider these wild nations of people are subjected by force to the Czar
of Muscovy’s dominion; and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come
by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskay and demand satisfaction; and if he
cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one but they revolt, and it will occasion
a new war with all the Tartars in the country. \
This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile; but I harped
upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to put my project into
execution. Towards the evening, the Scots merchant met me by accident in our
walk about the town, and desired to speak with me. “I believe,” said he, “I
have put you off your good design. I have been a little' concerned about it.
since, for Iabhor idolatry as much as you can do.” “Truly,” said I, “ you have
put off a .little the execution of it; but you have not put it out of my thoughts,
and I'believe shall do it before I quit this place, though I were to be delivered
up to them for satisfaction.” “No, no,” said he; “God foibid they should
deliver you,up to such a crew of "monsters! _They shall not do that either; that
would be murdering you, indeed.” “Why,” said I, “how would they use me?”
“.Use you!” said he; “I’ll tell you how they served a poor Russian who
lafi'ronted them in their worship just as you did, and whom they took prisoner,
after they had lamed. him with an arrow that he could not run away. They took .
A ‘PLOT AGAINST THE 1001;. _ 397
him and stripped him stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol-monster,
and stood all round him, and shot as many arrows into him as would stick over
his whole body; and then they burned him, and all the arrows sticking in him,
as a sacrice to the idol.” “And was this the same idol?” said I. “Yes, said
he, “the very same.” “Well,” said I, “I will tell you a story.” So I related
the story of our men at“ Madagascar, and how they burned ‘and sacked the village
there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of our men, just
as it is related before; and I added that I thought we ought to do so to this
village. . '
He listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked of doing so to
that village, said he, “ You mistake very much; it was not this village---it was
almost ahundred miles from this place; but it was the same idol, for they carry
him about in procession all over the country.” “Well,” said I, “then that idol
ought to be punished for it; and it shall,” said I, “if'I live this night out.”
In a'word, nding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me I should
not go alone, but ‘he would go with me, but he would go rst and bring a stout
fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; “and one,” said he, “as famous
for his zeal as you can desire any One to be against‘ such devilish things as
these.” In a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called
Captain Richardson; and I gave him a full account of what Ivhad seen, and also
what I intended; and he told me readily he would go with me if itcost him his‘
life. So we agreed to g0--on1y we three. I had, indeed, proposed it to my >
partner, but he declined it. He said he was ready to assist me to the utmost,
and upon all occasions, for my defence; but this was an adventure quite out of
his way; so I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and, my man-ser-
vant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with all the secrecy
imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till the next'night,
because the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor
could not pretend to' give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his
power. The Scots merchant’, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise as bold '
in executing, brought me‘ a Tartar’s robe or gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet,
with a bow and arrows, and had provided the same for himself and his country“
men, that the people, if they saw us, should not determine who we were.
All the rst night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter, with aqua
vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get; and having a good
quantity of tar in'a little pot, about an hour after night we set out upon our
expedition. - .
We came to the place about eleven o’clock at night, and found that the
people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night was .
cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the
same posture and place that it did before. The people seemed to be all at their
rest; only that in the great but or tent, as we called it, where we saw ‘the three
priests, whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to the
door, we heard people talking as if there were ve or six of them; we concluded,
therefore, that if we set wildre to the idol, these men would come out
immediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from the destruction that we
intended for it; and what we intended to do with them we knew not. Once we
thought of carrying it away, and setting re to it at a,distance; but when we
came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss
again. The second Scotsman was for setting re to the tent or hut, and knock‘-
ing the creatures that were there on the head when they came out; but I could
not join with that; I was against killing them, if it were possible to avoid it.
“Well, then,” says the Scots merchant, “I will tell you what we will do: we
will try to make them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see
their idol destroyed.” '
As it. happened, we had twine or pack-thread enough about us, which we
used to tie our relocks together with; so we resolved to attack these people.
rst, and with as little noise as we could. The rst thing we. did we knocked
at the door, when one of the priests coming to it, We immediately Seized upon
him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol,
where we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also together,
and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would come out to
see what the matter was; but we waited so long till the third man came back to
us; and then nobody coming out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out
came two more, and we served‘ them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with .them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come out to the door, and
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized the two, and immediately
tied them, when the third, stepping back and crying out, my Scots merchant went
in after them, and taking out a composition we had made that would only smoke
and stink, he set re to it, and threw it in among them. By that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the two men already bound, and
tied together also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there, to
see if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.
[When the furze we had thrown in had‘lled the hut with so much smoke
that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small leather bag of
another kind, which amed like a candle, and following it in, we found there
were but four people, and, as we supposed, had been about some of their
diabolical sacrices; They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least so as
to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak either for the smoke. '
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other, and all
without any noise. I should have said we brought them out of the house or hut
rst; for indeed we were not able to bear the smoke anymore than they were.
I When we had done this, we carried them all together to the idol; when we came
there, we fell ‘to work with him; and rst we daubed him all over, and his robes
also, with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brim-
‘THE IDOL IS BLOWN UP. ‘ I 399
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder; then
we wrapped up a great piece of wildre in his bonnet; and then sticking all the
combustibles we had brought with us upon himhwe looked about us to see if we
could nd anything else to help to burn him; ‘when my Scotsman remembered
that by the tent‘ or but, where the men. were, there lay a heap of dry forage,.
whether straw or rushes I do not remember; away he and the other Scotsman
ran and fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this, we took all our‘
prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, .
and made them stand up, and set‘ them before their‘ monstrous idol, and then set
re to the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the powder in the
eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had
split and deformed the Shape of it; and, in a word, till we saw it burned into a
mere block or log of wood; and setting dry forage‘to it, we found it would .be
soon quite consumed; so we began to think of going away; but the Scotsman
said, “ No, we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches will all throw them-
selves into the re, and burn themselves with the idol.” So we resolved to stay
till the forage was burned down too, and then came away and left ‘them.
After the feat was ‘performed, we appeared in the morning among our fellow—
travellers, exceedingly busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could any man
suggest that We had been anywhere but in our beds, as travellers might be sup‘
posed to be, to t themselves for the fatigues of the day’s journey.
Bu't the affair did not end so; the next day came a great number of the
country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous manner demanded
satisfaction of ,the Russian governor for the insulting their priests, and burning
their great Cham Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nertzinskay were at rst in 'a great
consternation, for they said the Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand
‘strong. The Russian governor sent out. messengers to appease them, and gave
- them all the good words possible; assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and
that there had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it could not be-
from anybody there; but if they could let him know who did it, they should be
exemplarily punished. They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced
the great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have
.dared to offer violence to his image but some Christian miscreant; and they there-
fore resolved to denounce war against him and all the Russians, who, they said,
were miscreants and Christians. \
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to have any
cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having strictly charged him‘ to
treat the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave them‘ still all the
good words he could. At last he told them there was a caravan gone towards
‘Russia that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who had done them this
injury; and that 'if they would be satised with that, he would send after them to
inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the
governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account how the thing was;
r
intimating withal, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make their
escape; but that whether we had done it or no, we should make all the haste
forward that was possible; and that, in the meantime, he would keep them in
play as long as he could. '
This was very friendly in the governor; however, when it came to the caravan,
there was nobody knew anything of the matter; and as for us that were guilty,
we were least of all suspected. However, the captain‘ of the caravan for the time,
took the hint that the governor gave us, and we travelled two days and two nights
without any considerable stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus; nor did
we make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another of the
Czar of Muscovy’s colonies, and where we expected we should be safe. But upon
the second day’s march from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great
.distance, some of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. We had
entered a great desert, and had Passed by a, great lake called Schaks 0861‘, when
we perceived a very great body of horse appear On the other side of the lake, to
the north, we travelling west. We observed they Went away west, ‘as we did, but
_ had supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas wevery happily
took the south side; and in two days more they disappeared again: for‘ they,
believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came to the river Udda,
.a very great river when it passes farther .north, but when we came to it we found
it narrow and fordable. _ - _ '
The third day they had either found their mistake or had intelligence of us,
and came; pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the evening.' We had,'to our
great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for ‘our ‘camp, which ' was very
convenient for the night; for as we were upon a desert, though but at the
beginning of it, that was above ve hundred miles over, we had no towns to‘
lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Jarawenaj which we had yet
two days’ march to; the desert, however,” had some few woodsin it on this -.side ;
and little rivers, which ran all into ‘the great river Udda ; it was in a narrow
strait, between little but very thick woods, that .we pitched our little camp for
that night, expecting to be attacked before morning. '
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it was usual ,
for ‘the Mogul Tartars'to go about in troops in that desert, so the caravans
always fortify themselves every night agaiust'them, as against armies of ‘robbers;
and it, was, therefore, no new thing ‘to be pursued. ' -
But‘ we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most advantageous
.camp ; for awe lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running just before
our front, so that we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way but‘ in our
front'or rear. We ‘took care also to make our front as strong as we could, by
placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line, on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear. ' ' - l -
~ In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was upon us before‘
we'had nished. They did not come on us like-thieves, as we expected, but sent
three messengers to ‘us, to demand the men to be delivered to them that had.
MARCH THROUGH A DESERT. _ ' 401'
abused their priests, and burned their god Charn Chi-Thaungu with re, that they
might burn them with re; and upon this, they said, they would go away, and
do us no further harm; otherwise they would destroy us. all. Our men looked
very‘ blank at this message, and began to stare at one another to see who looked
with the most, guilt in their faces; but nobody was the word--nobody did it.
The leader of the caravan sent word he was well assured that it was not done by
any of our camp; that we were peaceful merchants, travelling on our business;
that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and that, therefore, they
must look farther for their enemies who had injured them, for we were not the
people; so he desired them not to disturb us, for if they did we should defen
ourselves. '
They were far from being satised with this for an answer; and a great crowd
of them came running down in the morning, by break of day, to' our camp; but
seeing us in such an unaccountable situation, they durst come no farther than
the brook in our front, where they stood, and showed us such a number that
indeed terried us very much; for those that spoke least of them spoke of ten‘
thousand. Here they stood and looked at us awhile, and then setting up a great
howl, they let y a crowd of arrows among us; but we were well enough fortied
for that, for we sheltered under our baggage, and I do not remember that one of '
us was hurt.
Some time after this we saw them move a little to our right, and expected
‘them on the rear: when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of Jarawena, in the pay of
the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the caravan, said to him, “I’ll go send
all ‘these people away to Sibeilka.” This was a city four or ve days’ journey at
least to the right, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and
getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as-it were back to
Nertzinskay; after this he takes a great circuit about, and comes directly on the
army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them a long
story that the people who had burned the Chain Chi-Thaungu were gone
to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he called them—that is to say,
Christians: and that they had resolved to burn the god Schal-Isar, belonging to
_ the Tongueses.
As ‘this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly‘ spoke their language,
he counterfeited so well that they all believed him, and away they drove in a
most violent hurry to Sibeilka, which, it seems, was ve days’ journey to the north;
and in less than three hours’ they were entirely out of our sight, and we never
heard any more of them, nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no. So we passed
away safely on to jarawena, where there was a garrison of Muscovites, and there
we rested ve days; the caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's
hard march,-and with want of rest in the night.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twenty-three days’
march. We‘ furnished ourselves with some tents here, for the better accommodating
ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages ~
or wagons of the country, ‘for carrying our water or provisions; and these carriages
26
were our defence every night round our little camp: so that had the Tartars
appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would not have been
able to hurt us. ' _ .
We may well be supposed to have wanted rest again after this long journey;
for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a bush; though we
saw abundance of the sable hunters, who'are all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of
which this country is a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we
saw no numbers of them together.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well inhabited;
that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with
garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans and defend the country
against the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and
his czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well guarding the caravans
and merchants, that, if there are any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments
of the garrison are always sent to see the travellers safe from station to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit
to by means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with ‘him, offered us a
guard of fty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the next station.
I thought, long before this, that. as we came nearer to Europe we should nd
the country better inhabited, and the people more civilised; but I found myself
mistaken .in-both; for wehad yet the nation of the Tongueses to pass through,
where we saw_the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as before; only, as
they were conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; but for
rudeness of manners and-idolatry, no people in the world ever went beyond them;
they are clothed all in skins of‘ beasts, and their houses are built of the same;
you know not a man from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their counten-
ances nor their clothes; and in the winter, when the ground is covered with
snow, they live underground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to
another. .
If the Tartars had their Chain Chi-‘Thaungu for a whole village or country,
I these had idols in every but and every cave: besides, they ‘worship the stars, the
sun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, everything they do not understand, and
they understand but very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing,
sets them sacricing. I met with nothing peculiar myself in all this country, which
I reckon was, from the desert I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of
it being another desert, which took us up twelve days’ severe travelling, without
house or tree; and we were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well
water as bread. After we were out of this desert, and had travelled two days, we
‘came to janezay, a Muscovite city, or station, on the great river Janezay, which,
they told us there, parted Europe from Asia.
Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the Muscovite
garrisons. All the country between the river Oby and the river Janezay is as
entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars ; nay,
as any nation, for aught I.know, in Asia or America. I also found, which I
N .8 Tswana ,We
observed to the Muscnvite governors where I had an oppnrtimity m mweme with’
that the poor pagans are not nvunh wiser, or nearer Christianity, for being under
mm Mimwliim timwiimiiiiit Wmiih they eehetiwletlaad was true enough; but than
as they said, was none of their business ; that it” the separated it; WWW, hi3
Siberian, Thngueae, or tpertar anbjerzts, it shmtg be, (mm, Wading mgymw
among them, not soldiers ,5. and they related, with were mmmw mm 1 mmmw
that they found it was not so much the aancern at?" their monarnh to make the
heohia Christiana it was it, make them snhjegte,
Fmm mm WWW w the? Wiim Tm” (DiWi ‘We aroused a wild, nnnnltivaterl eonnttyi
biii’itttt inf people and tinted management; otherwise it; in in, itself a moat hleaaanti
 
 
fruitful, and agreeaiiiie nnnntry. ‘What inhabitants we failed in it me Mt mgmm
tment snub as are sent among them from ituaaia; for this in the nnnntrywwlf
mean on both sides the river 0hywewhither the Maaoovite Mai/initials that are not
but to death are haniahedi and train whenea it is neat tn impossible they ahmttm
eater aweyn
mwiz nmhimg mmmiii m My m mi’ lilattinular afllrirs till I name to Wilinhnlakh
iiiii‘ mliimi ‘iii? of .hiheria, where i nominated auntie time on, fulinwing amount.
had now been ailment seven innntha on our journey, time»; Wmm, bgm m
WWW 0% WWW; Whereutltnn my partner and; eaflieri a nnttnail about our Wrtienlar
affairs, in whinh fn'nnri it proper, an we were bound for end mm {m
Moscow, to annaitier ‘haw to diapnae of ourselves. They mm m m. and
reindeer tin. earry as over the snow in " the winter anti, indeed, they have
such things that it wnuld inareriihle to relate the partieuiata wt", by gamete
means Russians travel more winter ‘than “they nan in summer, as in these
sledges they are able to run night and day; the snow, being frozen, is one universal
covering to Nature, by which the hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and
hard as a stone, and they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is
underneath. \
But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this kind: I was bound
to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways: either I must go on
as the caravan went, till I came to jaroslaw, and then go off west for Narva,
and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell
my China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the caravan at a little
town on _the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to Archangel,
and from thence might be sure of shipping either to England, Holland, or
Hamburgh.
Now, 'to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been preposterous;
for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could not get
passage; and to go by land in those countries was far less safe than among the
Mogul Tartars ; likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be
gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south
to Moscow in. the winter, ‘when the ships are gone; 80 that I Could have nothing
but~extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie in
an empty town all the winter; so that, upon the Whole, I thought it much my
better way to let’ the Caravan go, and make provision to winter where I was,
at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the latitude of about Sixty degrees, where I was
sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with---viz., plenty of provisions,
such as the country afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent
company. " '
I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved island, where I never
felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to
bear any clothes on my back, and never made any re but without doors,
‘ which was necessary for dressing my food, &c. Now I had three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button
close to the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sufciently
warm.
As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in England
of making res in every room in the house in open chimneys, which, when the
re was out, always kept the air in the room cold as the climate; but taking an
apartment in a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a
furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to‘ carry the
smoke went up one way, the door to come at the re went in another, and all
the rooms were kept equally warm, but no re seen, just as they heat the bagnios
in England. By this means we had always the same climate in all-the rooms,
and an equal heat was preserved; and how cold soever it was without, it was
always warm within; and yet we saw no re nor were ever incommoded with
smoke. ;
The most wonderful thing of all was, ‘that it should be possible to meet with
f N SIBERIA. 405
good company here, in a country so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts
of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, within but a very few degrees of Nova Zem-
bla. But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as I
observed before, are all banished, this city was full of noblemen, gentlemen,
soldiers, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was the famous Prince Galitzin, the old.
General Robostiski, and several other persons of note, and some ladies. By
means of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I
made an acquaintance with several of these gentlemen; and from these, in
the long winter nights in which I stayed here, I received several very agreeable
visits.
It was talking one night with Prince
 
, one of the banished ministers of
state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that the discourse of my particular case-
began. He had been telling me abundance of ne things of the greatness, the
magnicence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the Emperor of the Rus-
sians: I interrupted him, and told him I was a greater and more‘ powerful prince
than even the Czar of Muscovy was, though my dominions were not so large, or
my people so many. The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and, xing
his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant. I told him his
wonder would cease when I had explained myself. First, I told him I had
absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects; that notwithstanding
my absolute power, I had not one person disaffected to my government, or to ‘my
person, in all my dominion's. He shook his head at that, and said, there, indeed,
I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him that all the lands in my kingdom
were my own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants, but tenants at-
will; that they would all ght ‘for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant, for
such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, and yet so
horribly feared, by his subjects.
After amusing him with these riddles in government for a while, I opened the
case, and told him the story at large of my living in the island; and how I'
managed both myself and the people that were under me, just as I-have since‘
minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the
prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the true greatness of life was to be
masters of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a state of life as
mine to be Czar of Muscovy; and that he found more felicity in the retirement
he seemed to be banished to there than ever he found in the highest authority he
enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar; that the height of human wisdom
was' to bring our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storms without. When he came rst
hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from his
back, as others had done before him; but a little time and consideration had
made him look into himself, as well as round him, to things without: that he
found the mind of man, if it was but once brought to reect upon the state of
universal life, and how little this world was concerned in its true felicity. was
perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and
suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very little assistance from the
world. The air to breathe in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty
for exercise, in order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world
could do for us; and though the greatness, the authority, the riches, and the
pleasures which some enjoyed in the world, had much in them that was agree-
able to us, yet .all those things chiefly gratied the coarsest of our affections,
such as our ambition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, and sensuality; all
which, being the mere product of the worst part of man, were in themselves
crimes, and had in them the seeds of all manner ‘of crimes; but neither were
related to, nor concerned with, any of those virtues that constituted us wise men,
nor.of those graces that distinguished us as Christians‘: that being now deprived
of all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices,
he said he was at leisure to .1001; upon the‘ dark side of them, where he found
all manner of _ deformity ; and was now convinced that virtue only makes a man
truly wise, rich, and great, .and preserves him in the way to a superior happiness
in a future state; and in this, he said, they were more happy in their banish~
ment than all their enemies were, who had the full possession of all the wealth
and power they ‘had left behind them. “ Nor, sir,” says he, “do I bring my
mind to this politically, from the necessity of my Circumstances, which some
call miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I would not now go back,
though the Czar my master should call me, and reinstate me in all my former
grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it than I believe my soul, when it
shall be delivered from this prison of the body, and has had a taste of the
glorious state beyond life, Would come back to the gaol of esh and blood it is
now enclosed in, and leave heaven, to trail in the dirt and crime of human
affairs.” ' '
He spoke this with so‘much warmth in his temper, so much earnestness and
motion of his spirits, that it was evident it was the true sense of his soul; there
was no room to doubt his sincerity. I told him I once thought myself a kind of
monarch in my old station, of which I had given him an account; but that I
thought he was not only a monarch, but a great conquer-er; for he that had
got a victory over his own exorbitant desires, and the absolute dominion over
himself, he whose reason entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he that
conquers a city. “But, my lord,” said I, “shall I take the liberty to ask you a
question?” “With all my heart,” says he. “If the door of your liberty was
opened,” said I, “would you not take hold of it, to deliver yourself from this
exile?” “Hold,” said he; “your question is subtle and requires some serious,
just distinctions to give it a sincere answer; and I will give it you from the bot-
tom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in the world would move me to
deliver myself from this state of banishment, except these two: rst, the enjoyment
of my relations; and, secondly, a little warmer climate; but I protest to you,
that to go back to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a
minister of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures of a courtier; if my
master should send me word this moment that he restores me to all he banished
Maw Wmmhimg mam
[W mva» 407
ma {mm 1 pmmi‘gt if I kmw myg $3“; 11% I WWM. mm Maw this wimmmy
thaw: dmmm, zmtzl thzw fmmm MW? {W {has pzam: at lwimmtzwwm M my MM?”
mid If‘, ‘‘ liiffhwfi yam mt WWW am mmiglmd {mm m Wirarmmma wt“ m mum and
{yawn m 13mm}; mmmimyg zgmd Wmlm Wu mjwwd mfmm 7km Wu may Em wsaamt,
mm, {mm mm M Kim mmwzmmmw M Eff/w; Wm mmj 19mm” {3mm w
ymm” mmm Wmmmd; amcji Mm wpmiggg Mm ym} mm {my mm m Wmmw m
m mdimry mmmm M ‘MW’ W A???’ @W m} w mm m m Wu mww? mm m m
43%. mm m a gamma‘? 55m; $0,
iii,mci¢i~zzwifd am ; hm mm mm:
mww m mmidm mm mm
iifil % mam Elmmzzm rw
mrag mm m 2131?? diatiwgmglmmi
11mm mmhmf; mi}, w 1
mm WWW" my “mm? mwx'lwg
ammld m “Viéiiiéji "with
mm dimizmmm
jEWZmwW/m m pm gm
Q‘fii wt 0? diieapuw,
Wu éi‘f my way (3f “W? mm in Mm ‘Eim, 13W
ijmrfwm m1‘ rank; Wm ‘12%
Wzprfmly wtimwh m Mimi
m a wm M Emmmmm;
mm} fm'wm th h‘TigA'a'zwrmk
M mm? mmmw whim
HWWW as; {mm m xxmria»
mwwimy mf muting {m ‘4 I 7
mm mm; but m WW I
mmimé Whw ma? h'm 5‘ mmfmm" We Wm“
witifmm that hwy, liw m ‘ ' '
m mmzh pimty m mew? mm W in Him Wd and; (mm mm and fmmm 1%
1mm“? mi” mmtli‘x will maimmim thfzrm 4%; mm; and m m “my m iiwmg mm
mpmg'Tiw, w it i3 mt mm m gm m mmzmlwzw Sm mm mbjmim 5%
mm M dmwm.”
1; mm mm mmm w giw: a full Mcmmt M mgmw’im mmmmimm I
Wtim mag Hwy gram man; in M2 whim m ahmwd {mt hi2; mind :30
impirm wiiah ympmim kxmwlmg M thimga am fmmimwmd in?’ mligmm W633“ m
%1;1@}/ a mat 511mm m1” madam? mm 11% wmmmpt mi" ‘th wmhfk was; many‘ Imam mi;
1W2; 11m hi”: WW; zwayga m mrm 210 £12.65: WM mmm in
the mmy mm mm.‘
13, had Mam alight mmmm and a (1mm (i'rmciml Wimw I mmzgm in ‘; Mm
maid, w immmm Him I mum, xwt: my mimh m Emitiak mhmmfl wi‘izmfgt Ming Wrazxmimd
in mm, % mmk M m Wfmm my {mm W” mtiimr Eifzqmd? with. manly mm mm"
 
breath, and 'two for sight: the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for
three months not above ve hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow
lying on the ground continually, and the weather being clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved, underground; and as for our
servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, every
now and then, their ngers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they should
mortify, and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the walls thick,
the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was chiey the flesh of deer,
dried and cured in the season; bread good enough, but baked as biscuits; dried
sh of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton and of buffaloes, which is pretty
good meat. All the stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer,
and well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua~vitae instead of brandy;
and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have very good. The
hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in ne venison,
and sometimes bear’s flesh, but we did not much care for the last. We had a
good stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully
and well, all things considered.
It was now March, the days grown considerably lbnger, and the weather at
least tolerable; so the other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them over
the snow, and to get things ready to be going; but my measures being xed, as
I have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no motion;
knowing very well that the ships from the south do not set out for that part of
the world till May or june 3 and that if I was there by the beginning of August,‘
it would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away; and therefore I
made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word, I saw ‘a: great many people,
nay, all the travellers, go away before me. It seems every: year they go from
thence to Muscovy for trade, to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which they bring
back with. them to furnish their shops: also others went on the same errand to
Archangel; but _then they all being to come back again above eight hundred miles,
went out before me. i
In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up; and, as I was
doing this, it occurred to me that, seeing all these people were banished by the
Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when they came there, were left at liberty
to go whither they would, why they did not then go away to any .part of the
world, wherever they thought t: and I began to examine what should hinder
them from’ making such an attempt. ‘But my wonder was over when I entered
upon that subject with the person I have mentioned, who answered me thus:
“Consider, rst, sir,” said he, “the place where we are; and, secondly, the con-
dition we are in; especially the generality of the people who are banished hither.
We are surrounded with stronger things than bars or bolts; on the north side, an;
unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every other
way we have above a thousand miles to pass through the Czar’s own dominions,
and by ways utterly impassable, except by the roads ‘made by, the Government,
and‘ through the towns garrisoned by his troops; so that we could neither pass
undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any other way; so that it is in vain to
attempt it.”
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in a prison every
jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the castle at Moscow: however, it
came into my thoughts that, I might certainly be made an instrument to procure
the escape of - this excellent person; and that, whatever hazard I ran, I would
certainly try if I could carry him off. Upon this, I took an occasion, one
evening, to tell him my thoughts. I represented to him that it was very easy for
me to carry him away, there being no guard over him in the country; and as I
was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went in the retinue
of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the.
desert, but could encamp every night where I would, we might easily ‘pass
uninterrupted t0 Archangel, where ‘I would immediately secure him on, board
an English Ship, and carry him safe along with me; and as to his sub-
sistence and other particulars, it should be my care till he could better supply
himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the while I
spoke: my, I could see in his very face that what I said put his spirits into an
exceeding ferment ;' his colour frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his
heart uttered, till it might be even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
immediately answer me when I had done, and, as it were, hesitated what he
would say to it: but, after he had paused a little, he embraced me and said,
“How unhappy are We, unguarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest
acts of friendship are made snares unto us, and we are madegtempters of i one
another! My dear friend,” said be, “your offer is so sincere, has such kindness
in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so calculated for my advantage, that I
must have very little knowledge of the world if I did not both wonder at it, and
acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you.for it. But did you believe I
was sincere in what I have often said to you of my contempt of the world? Did
you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I had really obtained that
degree of felicity here that had placed me above all that the world could give
me? Did you believe I was sincere when I told you I would not go back, if I
was recalled even to be all that I once was in_ the court, with the favour of the
Czar ‘my master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest man? or did
you believe me to be a boasting hypocrite?” Here he stopped, as if he would
hear what I would say; but, ‘indeed, I soon after perceived that he stopped
because his spirits ‘were in motion, his great heart was full of struggles, and he
could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the thing as well as at the
man, and I used some arguments with him to urge him to set himself free;
that he ought to look upon this as a door opened by Heaven for his
deliverance, and a summons by Providence, who has the care and dis-
position of all events, to do himself good, and to render himself useful in the
world.
He had by this time recovered himself. “How do you know, sir,” says he,
warmly, “but that, instead of a summons from Heaven, it may be a feint of
another instrument; representing in alluring colours to me the show of felicity as
a deliverance, which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin ?‘
Here, I am free from the temptation of returning to my former miserable great-
ness ; there, I am not sure but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice,
and luxury, which I know remain in nature, may revive and take root, and, in a
word, again overwhelm me; and then the happy prisoner, whom you see now
master of his soul’s liberty, shall be the miserable slave of his own senses, in
the full enjoyment of all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed
connement, banished from the crimes of life, rather than purchase a show of
freedom at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the future happiness
which I now have in my view, but shall then, I fem‘, .quickly lose sight of 3 for
I am but flesh ; a man, a mere man: have passions and affections as likely to
possess‘and overthrow me as any man. Oh, be not my friend and tempter both
together!”
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood silent, looking at
him, ‘and, indeed, admiring What I’ saw. The struggle in ‘his soul was so great
that, though the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat,
and I found he wanted to give vent to his mind; 50 I Said a word or two, that
I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again, and then I withdrew
to my own apartment.
About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of my room,
and I was going to open the door, but ‘he had opened it, and come in. “My
dear friend,” says he, “' you had almost overset me, but I am recovered. Do
not take it ill that I do not close with your offer. I assure you it is not for
want of sense of the kindness of it in you; and I came to make the most
sincere acknowledgment of it to you; but I hope I have got the victory over
myself.” “My lord,” said I, “I hope you are fully satised that you do not
resist the call of Heaven." “\Sir,” said he, “if it had been from Heaven, the
same power would have influenced me to have accepted it; but I hope, and am
fully satised, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and I have innite
satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still, though
not a free man.”
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him of my
having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me very
passionately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and should always
acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very ne present of ~sables,—-~-too
much, indeed, for me to accept from a man in his circumstances, and I would
have avoided them, but he would not be refused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a small present of
tea, and two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan _gold,
which did not all weigh above six ounces or thereabouts, but were far short
of the value of his sables, which, when I came to England, I found worth near
De PAR TUBE. 4 r I
'two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece ‘of the damask,
and one of the pieces of gold, which had a ne stamp upon it, of the
Japan coinage, which I found he ‘took for the rarity of it, but would rnot take
any more: and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak
with me.
When I came to him,’ he told me I knew what had passed between us, and
hoped I would not move him any more in that a‘air; but that, since I made
such a generous offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer the
same to another person that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
share of concern. I told him that I could not say I inclined to do so
much for any but himself, for whom I' had a particular value, and should have
been glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance; however, if he
would please to name the person to. me, I would give him my answer. He
told me it W115 this Only son; who, though I had not seen him, yet was
in the same condition with himself, and above two hundred miles from him,
on the. other side of the Oby; but that, if I consented, he would send for
him. i .
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I ‘made some ceremony
in letting him understand that it was wholly on his account; and that, seeing
I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect to him by my concern for
his son; but these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent the next day
for his son; and in about twenty days he came back with the messenger, bring-
ing six or seven horses, loaded with very rich furs, which, in the whole,
amounted to a very great value. His servants brought the horses into the
town, but left the young lord at a distance till night, when he came incognito
into our apartment, and his father presented him to me ; and, in short,
we concerted the manner of our travelling, and everything proper for the
journey. ‘
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox skins, ne ermines,
and such other furs as are very rich in that city, in exchange for some of the
goods I had brought from China; in particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of.
which I sold the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a
much better price than I could have got at London; and my partner, who was
sensible of the prot, and whose business, more particularly than mine, was mer-
chandise, was mightily pleased with our stay, on ‘account of the traic we made
here.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place; a city, I believe,
little heard ‘of in the world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of commerce,
that I know not how it should be much talked of. We were now reduced to a
very small caravan, having only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of
them passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of eleven of them; it
was most natural, also, that I should take more servants with me than I had
‘before; and the young lord passed for my steward; what great man I passed for
myself, I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst
and the largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey; I call
it the worst because the way was very deep in some places, and very uneven in‘
others; the best we had to say for it was, that we thought we had no troops of
Tartars or robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side the river Oby,
or at least very seldom; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted
with the country, and led us by private roads, so that we avoided coming into
the principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumen, Soloy
Kamskoi,- and several others; because the Muscovitegarrisons which are kept
there are very curious and strict in their observation upon travellers, and search—
ing lest any of the banished persons of note should make their escape that way
into Muscovy; but, by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our
whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp and lie in our
tents, when we might have had very good accommodation in the cities on the
way; this the young lord was so sensible of that he would not allow us
to lie abroad when we came to several cities on the way, blgt lay abroad
himself, with his servant, in the woods, and met US always at the appointed
places. i _
We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which in these
parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the rst City on the
European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the great
city on the river Kama‘; and here we thought to see some evident alteration in
the people; but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to pass, which
is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two, hundred
miles over where we passed it, so till we came past that horrible place, we found
very little di'erence between that country and the MogulTartary; the people are
mostly pagans, and little better than the savages of America; their houses
and towns full of idols, and their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the
cities, and the villages near them, where they are Christians, as they call them--‘
selves, of the vGreek Church, but have their religion mingled with so many relics
of superstition that it is scarpe to be ‘known in some places from mere sorcery
and witchcraft. -
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our dangers were,
to our imagination, escaped) have been plundered and robbed, and perhaps mur-
dered, by a troop of thieves; of what country they were, I am yet at a loss to
know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at rst
about forty-ve in number; they came so near to us as to be within two musket-
shots, and, asking no questions, surrounded us with their horses, and looked very
earnestly upon us twice; at length, they placed themselves just in our way; upon
which we drew up in a little line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men
in all; and, being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant,
‘who ‘attended his lord, to see who they were; his master was the more willing to
let him go because he.was not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian
troop sent out after him. The man came ,up nearer them with a flag of truce,
\
ONE MORE ‘A D VENTURE. 4 I 3
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of
languages rather, he could not understand a word they said; however, after some
signs to him not to come near them at his peril, the fellow came back no wiser
than he went; only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some
Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of _
them upon the great desert, though he never heard that any of them were seen so
far north before. ' .
About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and rode round
our little wood to see where they might break in; but nding us always ready
to face them, they went off again; and we resolved not to stir for that
night. a
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy; there was, on
our left: hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little ‘grove, and very
near the road; I immediately resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, rst, I‘ considered that the trees
would‘ in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place,
they could not come to charge us in a body; it was, indeed, my old Portuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him, that he was
always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most
danger. We advanced immediately, with what speed we could, and gained that
little wood; the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping
their stand, and not‘attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found,
to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the one
side a very great spring of water, which, running out in a little brook, was a little
farther joined by another of the like size; and was, in short, the source of a
considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska; the trees which grew about ‘this
spring were not above two ‘hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick,’ so
that ‘as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy unless
they attacked us on foot. .
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, without .
perceiving that they made any movement, our Portuguese, with some help, out
several arms of trees half off, and laid them hanging across from one tree to
another, and in a manner fenced us in. About two hours before night, thev‘
came down directly upon us; and though we had not perceived it, we found they
had been joined by some more, so that they were near fourscore horse; whereof,-
however, we fancied some were women. They came on till they were within
half-shot of our little wood, when we red‘ one musket without‘ball, and called to
them in the Russian tongue, to know what they wanted, and bade them keep off‘,
but they came on with a double fury up to the wood side,‘ not imagining we
were so barricaded that they could not easily break in.
captain, as well as our engineer, and desired us not to ‘re upon them till they
came within pistol shot, that we‘ might be. sure to kill, and that when we
Our old pilot was our I
did re we should be sure to take good aim; we bade hm give the word -
of command,‘ which be delayed so long, that- they were some of them within
two pikes’ length of us when we let y. We aimed so true that, we:.k,illed
fourteen of them, ‘and wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at
least. |_ , - .
They were terribly surprised with our re, andlretreated immediately about
one hundred rods from us; in which time we loaded our pieces again, and
seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught four or ve of their
horses,lwhose riders we supposed were killed; and coming up to the dead we
judged they were Tartars, but knew not how they came to make an excursion -
such an unusual. length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our situation, 'and barricading the entrances into the Wood, and
kegping a, strict watch, We waited for daylight, and when it came, it gave us a
very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were dis-
couraged with the reception they met with, were now greatly increased, and had
set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us.; and
this little camp they had pitched upon the open Plain; about three-quarters of a
mile from us. We were indeed surprised‘ at this discovery; and now, I confess,
I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had; the 1055 Of my effects did not lie
so near me, though very considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of
such barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, uftl’ SO many difculties and
hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our port, where we expected
safety and deliverance. As to my partner, he was raging, and declared that to
lose his goods would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than be starved,
and he was for ghting to the last drop. , .
The young lord, a gallant youth, was for ghting to the last also; and my old
pilot was of opinion that we were able to resist them all in the situation we were
then in; and thus we spent the day in debates of what we should do; but
towards the evening we found that the number of our enemies still increased, and
we did not know but by the morning they might still be a greater number; so I
began to inquire of those people‘ we had brought from Tobolski, if there were no
private ways by which we might avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to
some town, or get help to guard us over the desert. The Siberian who was
servant to the young lord told us, if we designed to avoid ‘them, and not ght,
he would engage to carry us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards
the river Petrou, by which he made no question but we might get away, and the
Tartars never discover it; but he said his lord had told him he would not
retreat, but would rather choose to ght. I told him he mistook his lord; for.
that he was too wise a man to love ghting for the sake of it; that I knew
his lord was .brave enough, by what he had showed already; but that his lord
knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to, ght ve hundred, ‘
unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to do it; and that if he thought
it possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else, to do but to.
attempt it. He answered, if his lordship gave him . such orders, 1he,_v,'ouldr
NEARJNG 127011122. 4 r 5
lose his life if he did not perform it; we soon brought his lord to give
that order, though privately,‘ and we immediately prepared for‘ putting it in
practice. .
And rst, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a re in ourlittle
camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night, that
the Tartars might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was dark, and
we could see the stars (for our guide would not stir before), having all our horses
and ‘camels ready loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon found steered_
, himself by the north star.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still; not
that it was dark all night, but the-moon began to rise, so that, in short, it
was rather lighter than we wished it to be; but by six o’clock the next morning,
we had got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled .‘our horses. - Here we found
a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of
the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set out again,
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not quite sohard as before; and
about seven o’clock we passed a little river called Kirtza, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Russians, called Ozomoys ; there we heard that several
troops of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now
completely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.‘ Here
we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we
stayed ve days; and my partner and I agreed to give the, honest Siberian who
brought uS thither the value of ten pistoles.
In ve days more we came to Veuslima upon the river Wirtzogda, and running
into the Dwina: we were there, very happily, near the end of our travels by land,
that river being navigable, in seven days’ passage, to Archangel. From hence, we
came to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd of July; and, providing ourselves with two luggage
boats, and a barge for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, ve months, and three days on
the journey, including our stay of eight months at Tobolski. , We were obliged to
stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and must‘ have tarried
longer had not an Hamburgher, come in above‘a month sooner than any of the
English ships; when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburgh might
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London,‘ we all took freight
with him; and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural for me to
\
put my steward on board to take care of them; by which means my young .
lord had a sufiicient opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore
again all\the time we stayed there; and this he did that he might not be seen in
the city, where some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and
discovered him. '
We then set sail from Archangel the zoth of August, the same year; and,
after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 18th of Septem-
ber. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our goods, as well
those of China as the sables, &c., of Siberia; and, dividing the produce, my
a r ' nBINrnN wires",
share emanated, re mister 17s. 3d,, iniinding ahnnr gig WWW; Wanda, Wmm
"hi dismantle, whialr pnrahaaetl at Bengal.
Here the paring: lnrrii. wink his lease at as, and went up the Elbe, in were m
“w it”) ill“ “Wm M Vienna, where he resalverl tn jiaratentina, and annlri
anrrespnnd with these at" father’s friends with were left alive. did. nut
Wm Wimmii iiiiiiiiilltttlina tiiif gratitude far the serving I had. dune him, and far tiny’
Mmdmiih m iitté‘f jifiiltiiitt, his father,
mmmdii iiiiifiiiti near fnur intuitive in Harnhargh, earns: tram
theatre by land tn tyre Hague, where I ernlinirrlrnri in the jgivaaltnt, and arrived Lwmdwm mm mm M Mmimli’it ilwiir iiii‘tiil frnrn liniiiiand ten, years
and nine ninnths. And here I resnlved tn Waivers far a lnngfer inurnay than
all, these, turning iiverl a m img,;,;,,, ,Wrggw wwmymw mam’ Md pmmm
Whirligig/kiwi”? m mm”? in” mm“ M flttlternanh and messing nf reading her
days in pantie.
 
 
 
 
iimwm ii” mmiimiifr will he harm's itineraries, has new, t1?
 
 
 
 
. , _ I ‘
.I’ I
'44 "1 .
H .
,_ . . .
\
4, r 'e " ¢
2
. i, _
i." ‘- ‘ r
‘ i
.4
‘_ u
. > ,
. f "
‘ I
I‘ l
. ,t _
. t . p .- _
l
, .
. I; ,
a! r
' l' v v
M u
.- . .
..,
l
l b
‘ I
I‘ ' \
\ P
, .
I‘ '- I
i -
.
‘ ‘ l a
\ ‘ | . f
I
I‘ -
r .
’ ‘A I
- A- - " a a
Y I .s » 1
i i q ' ". (‘v \
._r l h ‘-
1 I‘ . . t.
d I ' l " ‘h
b ' a‘ ‘W .
. 4 M
< V’ I \ I
I L’ ' .
‘~- I I \ I ‘
A . _ . \ ,, ~.
7-- a ‘at ‘
i \ \ ‘
. , K a
.t v ‘-
u- y
:. ' I , A I M J I
’l
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSELL & COMPANY’S .1
_ . PUBLICATIONS. . 1.
 
 
. _ ‘ ‘I. -'
. i» ',
. "1 .
‘\ o
. - ' c a
V _ . l
i ‘V " .‘ ~_
1 t‘
.g.
r ' I
‘“X‘ "l / . Q I
o ‘ -.
. . -.
‘ ' ~rl-
. h‘
-. , V - \
o ' Q. \ ‘.-
F ‘ ' l . q
~ 4 .
' \ o , v v’ 1 “.
-..
I ’ ‘as;
. r I . 1‘ ‘ v _ Mu .
. ' i
. W. , l,
. _ v . u
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
' - , 3. ‘ \2‘“
. ,r w
_ . I y.., y 1
. \ . .
5 I t s , A , \
# t.
q A . I I‘. .
‘ .._' Y
,, J
c I i
I I
A:
. I ’
-.. H ’
v‘ - ‘-
l‘, ' j
i -. v
. . / -H__,_\ h
I ‘ t’ /
. “6%,? .
l' i‘ a J'- ‘ \
l . J .. > ,,
’.. ' ‘ ‘- . a‘ v H:
w d J ‘. _ ,...
r \ J A - q “
‘a J D _ - I s
r . ,
a", _ ‘ ’
' I
‘ “ue. ‘ |
a ' - \ - L‘
V5’ Y ‘ ‘ ' ' t}-
r ' . ',r"\' w_r,v‘ v.
I w,‘ -‘ ,
v w a , . l x I l
a \ ‘I ‘\- \ ' ‘ n
I) . N‘. __ _ - v
i F n — I I ~ 1' .k ._
, It ‘ ‘ Y ‘Q “ E‘
w» ,1», _- I _ I ‘a
l I‘ a“ \r
A l s ‘ .5
h, _ ..
_| , h I ‘I 1
I ‘A / ‘r "V
r . - ‘M
f 1 t
p
r
' ' /
‘ii ‘I’ I - ‘ ‘ _ , _ I
m ‘ ,e- v ~.
2.. . \ ‘ ‘ ‘M ‘v
‘ Ir “ . _. A .. _, 1 I z
- “"|( . ‘ a" I“ g g
4 s.
.._ i»-
(l :“v‘ i I r - . . l
. ‘ I ‘
. z
.r' _, h
. . A l d “ ‘I
. ‘ l _ t
. I a -
4"‘
' ' : fl
‘ . . ‘.1
I —_ v
' o-
a
. , . . - 10 10.99. V: “
._ .1 v I J. ‘a
M n _. ; .7,
._' r ' i | f‘
1 J , r m x ‘
‘ - . - ‘ 7‘ ‘
"l A I j ‘ ‘\l w‘
h’ I — -I . a .7
. . i I a.‘
U‘. . ‘ y I a
i r ‘a ' r r-r. ,,
i 7 1. I . .
v . J , \- , _ ’\ ,,-_
I i' I A , - a n w 1 "I
. . u . - , l ‘
, ,M y _ " | , ‘ '. \ _,' r‘,
\ . . a . ;
.~ # ._ ,_ ‘l ‘ . y g l
I. . .f} _ . , w‘ s r m I’ J I i
‘ '1‘ ‘ .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Selections from Caste/l d: Company’: Puolicatzbm.
 
illlusiraitn, jiime liri. out other iiinlumes.
Adventure, The World of. Cheap Edition. Profusely Illustrated with Stirring
Pictures and Eighteen Coloured Plates. In Three Vols. 55. each.
Adventures in Criticism. By Q (A. T. QUlLLER-COUCH). 65.
Esop's Fables. Illustrated by Banner GRISET. Cheap Edition. Cloth, 35. 6d.;
bevelled boards, gilt edges, 5s.
Africa and its Explorers, The Story of. By Dr. ROBERT BROWN, F. R.G.S.. &c.
With about 800 Original illustrations. Cheap Edition. In 4 Vols. 45. each.
Animals, Popular History of. By HENRY SCHERREN, F.Z.S. With :3
Coloured Plates and other Illustrations. 78. 6d.
Architectural Drawing. By R. Penna SPIERS. Illustrated. :05. 6d.
Art, Sacred. With nearly 200 Full-page Illustrations and Descriptive Text. 9s.
Art, The Magazine Oil With Egtquisite Photogravures, a Series of F ulLpage
Plates, and hundreds of lllustra tions. Yearly Volume, 215.
Artistic Anatomy. , By Prof. M. DUVAL. Cheap Editlvn, 3s. 6d,
Ballads and Songs. By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE Tnacmznar. With Original
Illustrations by H. M. BROCK. 6s.
Barber, Charles Burton, The Works of. With Forty-one Plates and Portraits,
and Introduction by HARRY Funmss. Camp Edition, 75. 6d.
"39119 Sauvag'e" Library, The. Cloth, 25. (A complete list 0/ the wtume: post
free on appticatz'an.)
Beetles, Butteries, Moths, and other Insects. By A. W. KAPPEL, F.L.S,,
F.E.S., and W. Ecmon'r KIRBY. With 1: Coloured Plates. 3s. 6d.
Berry, Rev. C. A., Life 01'. By the Rev. 1. S. DRUMMOND and Mrs. BERRY.
Wit" Portrait. 6s. '
Biographical Dictionary, Cassell's. Containing Memoirs of the Most
Erninent Men and Women of all Ages and Countries. C heap Edition, 35. 6d.
Birds, Our Rarer British: Their Nests, Eggs, and Summer Haunts. By
R. KEARTON, F.Z.S. With about 70 Illustrations from Photos. 75. 6d.
Birds’ Nests, British: How, Where, and When to Find and Identify Them.
By R, KEARTON, F.Z.S. With nearly :30 Illustrations of Nests, Eggs, Young 3w.-
from Photographs by C. KEARTON. :15.
Bitter Heritage, A. By]. BLUUNUELLE-BURTON. 65.
Black Watch, The. The Record of an Historic Regiment. By ARCHIBALD
FORBES, LL.D. 65.
Britain’s Roll of Glory; or, the Victoria Cross, its Heroes, and their
Valour. By D. H. PARRY.’ Illustrated. ‘Cheap and Enlarged Edition. 35. 6d,
British Ballads. With dgoo Original Illustrations. Cheap Edition. Two Volumes
in One. Cloth, 75. 6 .
British Battles on Land and Sea. By JAMES GRANT. With about 800
Illustrations. Cheap Edition. Four Vols, 35. 6d. each.
Building World. In HalYearly Volumes, 45. each.
Butteries and Moths, European. By W. F, Kmsr. With 6: Coloured Plates, 355,
By a Hair’s Breadth. By HEADON HILL. Illustrated Edition. 65.
Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book 01'. By W. A. BLAKSTON,
W. SwAYsLANo, and A. F. WIENER. With 56 Facsimile Coloured Plates. 355.
Cassell’s Magazine. Yearly Volume, 85.; Half-Yearly Volume, 55.
Cathedrals, Abbeys, and Churches of England and Wales. Descriptive,
Historical, Pictorial. Papa/air Edition. Two Vols., 125. the set,
Cats and Kittens. By HENRIETTE RUNNER. With Portraitand r3 magnicent
Full-page Photogravure Plates and numerous Illustrations. 4t0, £2 105.
China Painting. By FLORENCE LEWIS. With Sixteen Coloured Plates. &c. 55.
Choice Dishes at small Cost. By A. G. PAYNE. Cheap Edition, 15.
Chums, The Illustrated Paper for Boys. Yearly Volume, 85.
Cities of the World. Four Vols. Illustrated. 75. 6d. each.
Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. Entirely New Edition. Paper,
ts.: cloth, :5. 6d.
Clinical Manuals tor Practitioners and Students of Medicine. (A List of
Vamme: lorwardedostfru on application to the Publishers.)
 
 
 
Seleclionr from Carroll dc Company’: Publications.
 
Cobden Club, Works published for the. (A Complete List‘ on application.)
Colour. By Prof. A. H. CHURCH. New and Enlarged Edition, 35. 6d.
Canning Tower, In a; or, How I Took HJVLS. “ Majestic” into Action. By
H. O. ARNOLD-FORSTER, M..P. Cheap Edition. Illustrated. 6d.
conquests of the Cross. Edited by Eownv Hoonnn. With numerous Original
Illustrations. Complete in Three Vols. 9s. each.
Cookery, Oassell's Dictionary of. With about 9,000 Recipes. 5s.
Cookery, AYear’s. By PHYLLIS Bnowne. Cheap Edition. Limp cloth. rs. ;
bevelled cloth boards, as. ‘
CookeryBook, Cassells New Universal By LIZZIE HERITAGE. With 12
Coloured Platps and other Illustrations. 1,344 pages, strongly bound in leather gilt, 6s.
Cookery, Cassell s Popular. With Four Coloured Plates. Cloth gilt, as.
Cookery, Cassell’s Shilling. Limp cloth. IS.
Cookery for Common Ailments. By a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
and PHYLLIS BRowNn. Cheap Edition. rs.
Cookery, Vegetarian. By A. G. PAYNE. Cheap Edition. rs.
Cooking by Gas, The Art of. By MARIE I. SUGG. Illustrated. Cloth, as, ,
Copyright in Books, The Law and History of. (Seven Lectures.) By
AUGUSTINE BinnnLL, M.P. 3s. 6d. net.
Countries of the World, The. By Dr. Rosna'r Bnown, M.A., F.L.S. With
about 750 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. In Six Vols. 65. each.
Cyclopaedia, Cassell's Concise. With about 600 Illustrations. 5s.
Cyclopaedla, Cassell's Miniature. Containing 30,000 Subjects. Cheap and
Revised Edition. Limp cloth, rs. Cloth gilt, rs. 6d.
Dainty Breakfasts, The Dictionary of. By PHYLLIS Baownc. rs. ”
Dead Man’s Rock. A Romance by Q (A. T. QUILLER-COUCH). Liorary Edition,
55. People’: Edition, 6d.
"Death or Glory Boys," The. The Story of the 17th Lancers. By D. H. PARRY.
\Vith Frontis iccc. Cloth gilt, 65. _
Dictionaries. ( or description, see alphabetical letter.) Bible, Biographical,
Concise C clopasdia, Cookery, Dainty Breakfasts, Encyclopazdic, English, English
Hlstory, echanical, Miniature Cyclopacdia, Phrase and F able. (F tench, German,
and Latin see with Educational lVorks.)
Dog, Illustrated Book of the. By VERo SHAW. B.A. With 28 Coloured
Plates. Cloth bevelled, 3 5s. ; half-morocco, 45$.
Doré Don Quixote, The, With about 400 Illustrations by GUSTAVE Dona
Cited)!’ Edifl'v- Cloth, 10s. 6d.
Doré Gallery, The. With 250 Illustrations by Gusravn DoRE. 4to, 425.
Doré's Dante's Inferno. Illustrated by GUSTAVE DORE. Popular Edition.
With Preface by A. J. BUTLER. Cloth gilt or buckram. 7s 6d.
Doré’s Dante’s Purgatory and Paradise. Illustrated by GUSTAVE Dons.
Cheap Edition. 75. 6d.
Dora's Milton's Paradise Lost. Illustrated by Gus'ravn Donn. 4to. Cheap
Edition, 12s. 6d. Popuiar Edition. Cloth or buckrarn, 7s. 6d.
Earth, Our, and its Story. Edited by Dr. Rosnn'r BROWN, F.L.S. With
nearly 800 Illustrations. Clamp Edition. In Three Vols. 55. each.
Edinburgh, Old and New, Cassell’s. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols.
gs. each; library binding, £1 10s. the set;
Egypt: Descriptive, Historical, and Picturesque. By Prof. G. Esass.
Translatcdby CLARA BELL. withNotesby SAMUEL BIRCH, LL.D.,&c. TwoVols. 425.
Electric Current, The. How Produced and How Used. By R. Munnmcux
\VALMSLEY, D.Sq.. 81c. Illustrated. 105. 6d.
Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. AYRTON, F.R.S. Entirely New and
Enlarged Edition. Completely rc-writtcn. Illustrated. 95.
Electricity in the Service of Man. A Popular and Practical Treatise. with
upwards of 950 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, 75. 6d.
Employmgnt. for ‘liloys on Leaving School, Guide to. By W. S. BEARD,
F R S 6
. . . . S. -
Encyclopaedic Dictionary, The. In Fourteen Divisional Vols, :05. 6d. each.
England and Wales, Pictorial. With upwards of 320 illustrations prepared
from copyright photographs. gs. On superior paper, half-pcrsian, in box, :55. net.
England-A History of. From the Landing of Julius Caesar to the Present
Day. By H. O. Anuocn-Foas'rsn, M.P. Fully Illustrated, 55.
 
 
 
Selection: from Carroll d: Company’: Publications.
 
England, Cassell's Illustrated History 01. With upwards of 2,000 Illusu-a.
tions. Embossed cloth, Eight Vols., £4_net.
English Dictionary, Cassell's. Containing Denitions of upwards of 100,000
Words and Phrases. C heap Edition, 35. 6d. ; Supgn‘ar Edition, 55_
English History, The Dictionary 01‘. Edited by SIDNEY Low, B.A., and
Prof. F. S. PULLING, M.A., with Contributions by Eminent Writers. New
Edition. 75. 6d.
English Literature, Library of. By Prof. H. MORLEY. In 5 Vols. 7s. 6d. each.
English Literature, Morley's First Sketch oi’. Revised Edition. 75. 6d.
English Literature, The Story 0!. By ANNA BUCKLAND. 3s. 6d.
English Writers from the Earliest Period to Shakespeare By HENRY
MORLEY, Eleven Vols. 5:. each. _ . . _
Etiquette or Good Society. New Edition. Edited and Revised by LADY
CouN CAMPBELL. rs. ; cloth, rs. 6d.
Fairy Tales Far and Near. Retold by Q (A. ‘T. QUILLBR-Coocu). Illus. 25. 6d.
Fairway Island. By HORACE HUTCHINSON. Cheap Edition. 25. 6d.
Family Doctor, Cassell's. By A MEDICAL MAN. Illustrated, 105. 6d.
Family Lawyer, Cassell’s. By A BARRlSTER-AT-LAW. ros. 6d.
Far East, The New. By ARTHUR DlésY. With a. Map and Illustrations. :65.
Fiction, Cassell’s Popular Library of. 3s. 6d. each.
 
'I‘ re liable City. By MAX PBM- Into the Unknown! A Romance of South
he Im§,._ E Africa. By Lawrence Fletcher.
What Cheer! 3? W- Clark Russell- Mount Desolation. An Australian Romance.
Mrs. Cli‘B Yacht. BY Frank Stockton. By W. Carlton Dawn.
‘rut;= Atllgvsentlllcltl‘? 01’ captain Horn- Br Pomona's Travels. By Frank Rsstocktomn
ran too 0 The Be utation or Geor 6 exon- 7
Cupid's Garden. BYELLENTHORNBYCROFT Morleg Roberts. 8
F0“ LB A Prison Princess. By MHJOI’ Alum!‘
The Sea wolves. Bvy MAX PHMBERTON. Griffiths.
Loveday. B A.E. ICKHAM- Queen's Scarlet, The. By George Manville
Tiny Luttre . B E. W. Homun . Fenn-
The White Bhlel . p Bertram Muford. Capture of the "Estrella '- The. A Tale
'I‘uxter's Little Me: lg G. B. Burg'tn. of the Slave Trade. By commander Cloud
The Hispaniola Plate. yJolm Bloundelle- Harding, R.N.
Burton. The Awkward Squads. And other Ulster
Highway oi’ Sorrow. By Hesba Stretton Stories, By Sban F Bullock.
and o e o 0 0 I; 0, a Famous Russian Exile. A King's Hussar. By Herbert Compton.
King Solomon 5 Mines. B_y H. Rider A rree-Laneein sFer Land. By Herbert
Hsgrg- glsodgiglpls SBEctiion. 5251.) 30m ton.
The s o y y- y in urner. 1: go and Parodies. Short Storl
The A treble Lady Biddy Pane. By Plagketchcs. dzc. By Barry Pain. es’
Frank Barrett. Fourteen to One, 8:0. By Elizabeth
List, 9 Landsmenl 45. Romance of In- Sruart Phelps.
ci<_en1=- B W- Clark RusM11- Also People‘! The Medicine Lady. By L. 'r. Meade.
Edition, 6 . Father Ste‘ord. By Anthon Hope.
Is: A Love Stoflr- Bx " La Bella,” and others. By gerton Castle.
The Red Terror: toll?’ of the Paris The Avenger of Blood. By J. Maclarcn
Commune By Edward ing. Cobban.
The Little Bquiro- By Mrs- Hmrr dela Pasture- The Man in Black. By Stanley Weyman.
Africa. By Lawrence Fletcher. O c,
Field Naturalist's Handbook, The. By Revs. J. G. W001) and THEODORE
WOOD. Cheap Edition, as. 6d.
Figuier’s Popular Scientic Works. With Several Hundred Illustrations in
each. '5. 6d. each. The Insect World. The Human Race. Reptiles and Birds.
Mamm a. The World before the Deluge. The Vegetable World. The Ocean w°r1¢
Flora’s Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by WALTER
CRANE. With 40 pages in Colours. 55.
Flower Painting, Elementary. With Eight Coloured Plates. 3s.
Flowers, and How to Paint Them. By MAUI) NAFTEL. With Coloured Plates. 5s.
Football: the Rugby Union Game. Edited by Rev. F. MARSHALL. Illustrated.
New and Em’arord Edition. 75. 6d.
Fossil Reptiles, A History of British. By Sir RICHARD OWEN, F.R.S., 8m.
With 268 Plates. In Four Vols. £12 125.
Franco-German War, Cassell’s History of the. Complete in Two V015,,
containing about 500 Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 65. each.
Francis Gludde, The Story of. By STANLEY WEYMAN.
From the Memoirs of a Minister of France. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d. each,
Garden Flowers, F . By F. E. HULME, F.L.S., F.S.A. With 200 Full-
page Coloured Plates, and Descriptive Text by SHIRLEY HIBBERD. C limp Editors.
7 In Five Vols, 35. 6d. each.
Garden of Swords, The. A Story of the Siege of Strasburg. By MAJ:
PaMsuR'roN. 6s.
Girl at cobhurst, The. By FRANK R. Sroctt'roN. 6s.
 
Zero, the Slayer. A Romance of Equatorial The Doing; of names Haw. By A. Com
D
 
 
 
Selection: from Carrel! d: Company’: Publications.
Gladstone, William Ewart, The Life of. Edited by Sir WEMYSS Rem.
Profusely Illustrated. 75. 6d. ; Superior Edition in 2 Vols, gs
Gleanings trom Popular Authors. Cbeop Edition, 35. 6d.
Grace O'Malley, Princess and Pirate. By ROBERT MACHRAY. 6s.
Guests of Mine Host, The. By MARIAN Bowen, 65.
Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. GREENER. With 500 Illustrations.
Entirely New Edition, 105. 6d.
Guns, Modern Shot. By W. W. GREENER. Illustrated. 5s.
Health, The Book 01‘. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. Cloth, 21s.
Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Ronsn'r BALL, LL.D., F.R.S. With
Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. Popular Edition, :05. 6d.
Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. With 300 Original Illustrations. Ctzeap
Edition. Complete in One Vol., 35.
6d.
History,A Foot—note to. EightYears of Trouble in Samoa. By R. L. STEVENSON. 6s.
Home Life of the Ancient Greeks, The. Translated by ALICE ZIMMERN.
.. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, 55.
Horse, The Book of the. By SAMUEL SIDNEY. With 17 Full-page Collotypo
Plates of Celebrated Horses of the Day, and numerous other Illustrations. Cloth, r5s.
Horses and Dogs. By 0. EERELMAN. With Descriptive Text. Translated
from the Dutch by CLARA BELL. With 15 Full-page and other Illustrations. :55. net.
Houghton, Lord: The Life, Letters, and Friendships of Richard Monckton
Milnes. First Lord Houghton. By Sir WEMvss'Rum. Two Vols. 325.
Hygiene and Public Health By B. ARTHUR WHITELEGGE, M. D. Illustrated.
New and R wired Edition, 75. 6d.
Impreg'nable City, The. By Max PEMBERTON. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.
India, Gassell’s History of. In One Vol. Cheap Edition, 75. 6d.
In-door Amusements, Card Games, and Fireside Fun, Casseii’s Book 01..
With numerous Illustrations. Cheap Edition. Cloth, as.
Iron Pirate, The. By Max PEMBERTON. Illus. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d,
People's Edition (Non-Illustrated). 6d.
Jenetha’s Venture. By Colonel Hsncoun'r. 6s.
Khiva, A Ride to. By Col, FRED BURNABY. New Edition. Illustrated. 35. 6d,
Kilogram; The Coming of the, or, The Battle of the Standards. By H. 0,
ARNOLD-FORSTHR, M.P. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
King grinning’: Mines. By H. RIDER HAGGARD. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. People’:
ztz'on, .
Kronstadt. By MAx PEMBERTON. With 8 Full-page Plates. 65.
Ladies‘ Physician, The. Bya London Physician. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d,
Lady's Dressing-Room, The. Translated from the French by Lady COLIN
CAMPBELL. Cheap Edition, 25. 6d.
Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications are now published exclu-
sively by CASSELL & COMPANY. (A List sent post/roe on application.)
Little Huguenot, The. New Edition, rs. 6:1.
Little Minister, The. By J. M. BARBIE. Illustrated. 6s.
Little Novice, The. By Aux Kmo. 65.
London, Gasseil's Guide to. Illustrated. New Edition, 6d. Cloth, rs.
London, Greater. By EDWARD WALroRD. Two Vols. With about 400
Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 45. 6d. each.
London, 016. and Now. By WALTER Tnonnsunr and EDWARD WALroao.
Six Vols., with about 1,200 Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 4s. 6d. each‘.
Manchester, 01d and Now. By WILLIAM ARTHUR SHAW, M.A. With
Original Illustrations. Three Vols., 3x5. 6d.
Mechanics, The Practical Dictionary of. Three Vols. 3 3s. : half-morocco,
£3 155. Supplementary Volume, £1 15. ; or half-morocco, 1 5s.
Medical Handbook of Life Assurance. By James EDWARD POLLOCK, M.D.,
and JAMES CHISIIOLM. New and Revised Edition, 7s. 6d.
Medicine, Manuals for Students 0!. (A List forwarded post free on appiieation.)
Mesdag, H. W., the Painter of the North Sea. With Etchings and Descriptive
l‘ Text. By PH. ZiLcxnN. The Text translated from the Dutch by CLARA BELL. 365.
Modern Europe, A History of. By C. A. FYFFE, M.A. Cheap Edition in One
Volume, 105. 6d.; Lion"? Edition, Illustrated, 3 vols, 7s. 6d. each.
 
 
 
Selections from Cassatt 4: Company’: Publications.
 
Music Illustrated History of. By Emu. NAUMANN. Edited by the Rev.
ir F.'A. Gone OUSELEY, Bart. Illustrated. Two Vols. 3:5.6d.
National Gallery, The. Edited by Sir E. J. POYNTER, P. R.A. Illustrating
eve Picture in the National Gallery. To be completed in Three Vols. The set,
7 5. net. .
Nations} Library, Cassell’s. Consisting of 214 Volumes. Paper covers, 3d.:
cloth, 6d. (A Compiete List oftlw V alum-ts post free on application.)
Natural History, Cassell’s Concise. By E. PERCEVAL Wntcn'r, M.A., M.D..
F.L.S. With several Hundred Illustrations. 7s.6d.
Natural History, Cassell’s New. Edited by P. MARTIN DUNCAN, M.B., F. R.S.,
F.G.S. Cheap Edition. With about 2,000 Illusts. Three Double Vols, 65. each.
Nature and a Camera, with. By RICHARD KEAR'I‘ON, F.Z.S. With Frontis-
piece, and 180 Pictures from Photographs by CHERRY KnArt'roN. 215.
New Zealand,Pictorial. With Preface by SirW. B. Pescnvan, K.C.M.G. Illust. 65.
Novels, Popular. Extra crown 8V0, cloth, 65. each.
The vizier of the Two-Horned Alexander. By FRANK STOCKTON.
The Ship 01' Stars. By T. QUILLER.COUCH)_
A Bitter Heritage. B . LOUNDBLLB-BUR'ION.
Jonethu'e Venture. y Colonel HARCOURT.
The Little Novice. By Aux KING.
lo and Fine Linen. By WILLIAM Picor'r.
Roxane, By LOUIS CRBSWICKE.
The Guests of Mine Host. By MARXAN Bowen.
The Shollbaoki or. At Sea in the ‘Sixties. By ALEC l- BOYD-
Poteherdn. By MABEL C. BIRCHENOUGII (Mrs. HENRY BIRCIIENOUGI-I}.
The Benor' Fir- B? M. HOCKLIFFH (Mrs. ERNss'r Hocitussn).
Y. Princess and Pirate. By Rossn'r Mncmuw.
A. Limited Success. By SARAH Prrr. .
The Wrothams of Wrotham Court. B FRANCES HEATH FRESIIFIELD.
gl-Kégenglollpd intlgtory 01.’ a Great rang and a Great Revenge. By w. G. Tanner.
n o .
I? Ligtle Minister. }BY J- M. BARRIB.
o.
‘1130 Gnrdten or Sword: : A Story of the Siege orstrasburg.
one .
Puritan's Wife A...
Some Persons ‘Unknown.
gong’: Izilgggii B H. W Ho NU
or ' I R N
‘1330 Rogue’: March. I’ c‘
It 35. .
B eotre Gold.
Bu 1 a-Breadth. By HHADON HILL.
ilustrated Edition.
The Girl at Cobhurst- By FRANK STOCKTON.
The Master of Ballantrae. A“, PM)”:
El
'1
8
0
Q
B
E
0
} By MAX PBMBERTON.
Kidnloped- Edition, 6.1, Also a .P0 utar
gl-Zlggriii'rnane. “a” BY R" L‘ STBVHNSON- Ea'l''v- :5. 6d.
Island Nights’ Entertainments. 3s. 6d. only. sad»
The Black Arrow.
The Wrecker. By R. L. s-rnvaNsoN and LLOYD OSBOURNB. Also People's Edition, or.
Our Own Country. With 1,200 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. 3 Vols, 55. each.
Paris, 01d and New. Illustrated. In Two Vols. gs. or 105. 6d. each.
Penny Méalgaziiie, The New. With about 650 Illustrations. In Quarterly Vols.,
28. - 83C .
Peoples oi the World, The. By Dr. Rossn'r BROWN, F.L.S. Complete in Six
Vols. With Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.
Peril and Patriotism. True Tales of Heroic Deeds and Startling Adventures.
In Two Vols., 45. each. (A To in One Vol., 75. 6d.)
Phrase and Fable, Dr. Brewer's Dictionary of. Entirely New and largely
increased Edition, :05. 6d. Also in half-morocco, 2 Vols., r55.
Physiology for Students, Elementary. By ALFRED T. SCHOFIELD, M. D.,
M. R.C.S. With Two Coloured Plates and numerous Illustrations. New Edit. on, 55.
Picturesque America. Complete in Four Vols, with 48 Exquisite Steel Plates,
' and about 800 Original Wood. Engravings. £12 :25. the set. Popular Edition in
Four Vols, price 185. each.
Picturesque Canada. With about 600 Original Illustrations. 2 Vols. £9 gs. the set.
 
 
4 A ' A
'" -~\*..-,
" 'l‘y A
Selection: 'om Carrel! A: Company’: Publications. -
Picturesque Europe. Popular Edition. Complete in F ive Vols. Each containing
13 Exquisite Lttho Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 Original Illus-
o trations. 18s. each. ('1 he British Isles.) Two Vols. in One. Clamp Edition, res. 6d.
Plcturesquellllediterranea-n. The. With a Series of Magnicent Illustrations
from Original Designs by leading Artists of the day. Two Vols. Cloth, .62 as. each.
Pigeons, Fulton's Book of. Edited by LEWIS WRIGHT. Revised, Enlarged,
and Supplemented by the Rev. W. F. LUMLEY. With 50 Full-page Illustrations.
Popular Edztmn. In One Vol., 105. 6d. Original Edition, with 50 Coloured. Plates
and numerous Wood Engravings, 2x5.
Planet, The Story of Our. By Prof. Bonner, F. R.S. With Coloured
Plates and Maps and about me Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 75. 6d.
Playi‘atr, Lyon, Memoirs and Correspondence of, First Lord Playfair of St.
Andrews. By Sll' WEMYSS Ram. With Two Portraits. 215.
Police and Crime, Mysteries of. A General Survey of Wrong-doing and
Its Pursuit. By Major ARTHUR GRIFFITHS. Two Vols. ars.
Polytechnic Series, The. Practical Illustrated Manuals. (A List will 6;
rent on application.)
Potsherds. By MABEL C. Btncnsnouon (Mrs. HENRY BIRCHENOUGH). 6s.
Poultry, The Book of. By LEWIS WRIGHT. Popular Edition. Illustrated. ros. 6d.
Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By LEWIS WRIGHT. With Fifty Coloured
Plates, and numerous Wood Engravlngs. New Edition in Preparation. ~
Poultry Keeper, The Practical, By LEWIS Wnrcn'r. With Eight Coloured
Plates and numerous Illustrations in Text. New and Enlarged Edition, 35. 6d.
Punch, The History of. By M. H. SPIELMANN. With nearly 170 Illustra-
tions, Portraits, and Facsimiles. Cloth, 165. ; Large Paper Edition, .62 as. net.
Purple and Fine Linen. By WILLIAM PIGOTT. 6s.
Q's Works, Uniform Edition of. gs. each.
Dead Man's Hock. (Also P1021‘? E‘Ihe Astonishing‘ Historg of Troy Town.
 
Edition, 6d.) Saw Three 8hips,”an other Winter's Tales
The Splendid 88hr. ' . Noushts and Crosses.
The Delectable uchy. Stories. Wander-in Heath.
Studies, and Sketches. The Blue avilions.
Queen Summer; or, The Tourney oi the Lily and the ‘Bose. Penned and
Pm'tmvcd by WALTER CRANE-- will! 40 pages in Colours. 65.
Queen Victoria, The Life and Times or. By Roses-r WILSON. Complete in
TWO VOIS- With numerous Illustrations. gs. each.
Queen’s Empire: The- Containmg nearly 700 Splendid Illustrations. Complete
in Two Vols. 95. each. . _
QIIBBH’B 110116011. The. Containing Exquisite Views of London and its Environs
together with a ne series of Pictures of the Queen’s Diamond jubilee Procession.
Enlarged Edition, :05. 6d. _ -
Railway Guides, Oclal. With Illustrations on nearly every page‘ Maps. 3m
Paper covers, 15.; cloth, rs. 6d.
 
London and North Western Railway. Great Eastern Railway.
Great Western Railway. London and South Western Railwav.
Midland Railwa \ .hondomBrighton and South Coast Rail war
Great Northern ailway. liouthEantern at Chatham 8: Dover Railwayo.
Abridged and Popular Edition: of the above Guides can also be obtained. Paper covers. 3i each
Rener's Fire, The. By Mrs. Ennes'r HOCKLIFFE. 6s.
Rivers of Great Britain : Descriptive, Historical, Pictorial,
Rivers of the South and West Coasts. With Frontispieee and Numerous illustrations ‘.44
The Royal River: The Thames from Source to Sea. Popi'ilrzr Edition, :65, '
Rivers of the East Coast. With highly-nished Engravings Papuiar Edm’on, 165.
Robinson Crusoe. Carrell': Fine-Art Edition. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d. or 5s.
Rogues of the Fiery Gross. By S. WALKEY. With 16 Full-page Illustrations, 55,
Cheap Edition, as. 6d. '
Bonner, Henriette, The Painter of Cat-Lite and Cat-Character. By M, H
SPIELMANN. Lar 19019875411117?!‘ 70$. '
Roxane. By LOUIS éilaswtckn. 6s.
Royal Academy Pictures. With upwards at 200 magnicent reproductions
of Pictures in the Royal Academy. 75- 6d.
Russo-Turkish War, Cassell’s History 01. With about 400 Illustrations. New
Edition. In Two Vols, gs. each.
Saturday Journal, Gassell's. Illustrated throughout. Yearly Vol., 7s. 6d.
 
 
1
.\
\
 
 
Selectman from Carroll di Company’: Publications.
 
Scarlet and Blue; or, Songs for Soldiers and Sailors. By Joan FARMER. 55.
Words only, paper, 6d. ; cloth, 9d. Cheap Edz'tmn. rd. ’
Science for All. Edited by Dr. ROBERT BROWN, M.A., F.L.S.. &c. Cheap
Edition. With over r,7oo Illustrations. Five Vols. 35. rd. each.
Science Series, The Century. Consisting of Biographies of Eminent Scientic
Men of the present Century. Edited by Sir Hurray Roscoe, D.C.L., F.R.S., M.P.
Crown 8V0, 35. 6d. each.
Pasteur. By Fancy FRANKLAND F.R.S., and Mrs. FRANKLAND.
John Dalton and the Rise of Modern Chemist . B Sir IIENRYE. Roscoe. F.R.S.
Major Rennell, 15211.8 and the Rise of Enl sh eog'ra hy. By Sir CLEMENTS R.
MARKHAM. C. 13-. FTILS" President of the Keys Geographical oc:ety..
Justus Von Liebi : His Life and Work. By “I. A. sunnsronn.
The Herscheie on Modern Astronomg. By M155 AGNES M. CLBRKE.
Charles L oil and Modern Geology. y Professor T- 6- BONNEY. R115-
.1. Clerk axwell and Modern Physics. By R. T. Guznnnoox. F.R.S.
Humphrv Davy, Poet and Philosopher. By T. E. THORPB, F.R.S.
char-1&5 afgisn and the Theory of Natural Selection. By EDWARD B. POULTON.
O C
 
Michael Faraday, His Life and Work. By Proi. SILVANUS P. THOMPSON, F.R.S. 5:.
Sea, The Story Of the. An Entirely New and Original Work. Edited by Q.
Illustrated. Complete in Two Vols., gs. each. Clamp Editzlm, 55. each.
Bea-Wolves, The. By Max PEMBERTON. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d.
Sentimental TOmmY- By J. M. BARBIE. Illustrated. 6s.
Bhattesbury, The Seventh Earl 01, K.G., The Life and Work oi. By Enwm
Hoonnn. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d.
Shakespeare, The England 01'. New Edition. By E. GOADBY. With Full-
page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 224 pages, 2s. 6d.
Bhakespeare,The Plays of. Edited by Prof. HENRY MORLEY. Completein 1 Vols,
cloth, in box, 215.; also 39 Vols., cloth, in box, 215.; half-morocco, cloth si es, 425.
lhakspere, The Leopold. With 400 Illustrations, and an Introduction by F. J.
FURNIVALL. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 55. ; roxburgh, 7s. 6d.
Bliakspere, The Royal. With 50 Full-page Illustrations. Complete in Three ‘
Vols. 105. 6d. the set.
Bhellback, The : or. at Sea. in the ‘Sixties. By ALEC J. Born. Illustrated. 6s.
Ship of Stars, The. By Q (A. T. QuiLLER-CoUcn). 6s.
Sights and Scenes in Oxford City and University. With 100 Illustrations
after Original Photographs. In One Vol. 215. net.
Sketches, The Art of Making and Using‘. From the French of G. FRAIPONT.
By CLARA BELL. . With Fifty Illustrations. es. 6d. ‘
social England. A Record of the Progress of the People. By various Writers.
Edited by H. D. TRAILL, D.C.L. Complete in Six Vols. Vols. I. (Revised Ed.),
11., and 111., :55. each. Vols. IV. and V., 175. each. Vol. VI., 185.
Some Persons Unknown. By E. W. Honmmc. 65.
Spectre Gold. A Novel. By HEADON HILL. Illustrated. 6s.
Sports and Pastimes, Casseil’s Complete Book oi. Cheap Edition, 35. 6d.
Star-Land. By Sir ROBERT BALL, LL.D. Illustrated. New and Enlarged
Edition. Entirely Reset. 7s. 6d.
sun, The Story of the. By Sir ROBERT BALL, LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.A.S.
With Eight Coloured Plates and other Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 105. 6d.
Technical Instruction. Edited by PAUL N. HASLUCK. Vol. I—Practical
Staircase Joinery. Vol. IL—Practical Metal Plate ‘Work. 25. each. (Other vols. in
preparation.)
Themes, The Tidal. By Guam‘ ALLEN. With India Proof Impressions of 20
Magnicent Full- age Photogravure Plates, and many other Illustrations, after
original drawings y W. L. WYLLIE, A.R.A. New Editzon, cloth, 42s. net.
Three Homes, The. By the Very Rev. Dean FARRAR, D.D., F.R.S. New
Edition. With 8 Ful -page Illustrations. .
To the Death. By R. D. Cnn'rwonn. With Four Plates. 25. 6d.
Treasure Island. A Story of Pirates and the Spanish Main. By R. L.
Sruvnuson. Illustrated. New Illustrated Editzon, 65. Popular Ediiion, 3s. 6d.
Prole’: Edition, paper. 6d.
Trees, Familiar. Some. By Prof. G. S. BOULGER, F.L.S., F.G.S. With
40 Full-page Coloured Plates. ms. 6d.
 
 
Selections from Cat-sell d: Company’: Publications.
 
Uncle Tom’s Cabin. By HARRIET BEECHER S'rown: With upwards of 100
Original Illustrations. Fine Art Edition, 7s. 6d.
" Unicode ": The Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Pocket or Desk
Edition. as. 6d. each. ,
United Spa-tee. cassell’s History of the. By EDMUND OLLIER. With Goo Illus-
trattons. Three V0 os. each.
UnIVB‘II'SBI 111817013’. Casseil’s. Profusely Illustrated Cheap Edition. In Four
0 5., 5s. eac . .
Verses, Wise or Otherwise. By ELLEN THORNEYCROF'I‘ FOWLER. 35. 6d.
Vicat Cole, R.A., The Life and Paintings of. Illustrated. In Three Vols. ,5 3 3s.
vizier of the Two-Horned Alexander, The. By FRANK STOCKTON. Illustrated. 6s.
War and_Peace, Memories and Studies of. By ARCHIBALD FORBES, LLJ).
0'15"“! Edition. 16s. C‘lzcap Edition, 65.
were of the Nineties, The. A History of the Warfare ot the last Ten Years
Of the 19th Century. Profusely Illustrated. In One Vol., 75. 6d.
Westminster Abbey Annals 01'. By E. T. BRADLEY (Mrs. A. MURRAY SMITH).
Illustrated. Wit a Preface by the DEAN or WESTMINSTER. Cheap Edition, 215.
‘ Wild Birds, Familiar. By-W. SWAYSLAND. Four Series. With 40 Coloured
 
Plates in each. (In sets only, price on application.)
Wild Flowers. Familiar. By F. E. HULME, F.L.S.. F.S.A. With 206
Coloured Plates and Descriptive Text. Cheap Edition. In Five Vols, 3s. 6d. each.
Wild Flowers Collecting Book. In Six Parts. 4d- cach-
Wild Flowers Drawing and. Painting‘ Book. In Six Parts. 4d. each.
Wild Life at Home: How to Study and Photograph It. By RICHARD
KEARTON, F .Z._S. Profusely Illustrated from Photographs, taken direct from
Nature, by CHERRY KEARTON. 65-
Windsor Castle, The Governor's Guide to. B the Most Noble the Martquts
OF LORNE, K.T. Profusely Illustrated. Limp clot , Is. Cloth boards, gilt edges, as.
World of Wit and Humour, Cassell’s. With New Pictures and New Text.
“Complete in Two Vols, (is. each.
With Claymore and Bayonet. By Col. PERCY Gnovas. With 8 Plates. 3s. 6d.
Work- , The Illustrated Journal for Mechanics. Half-Yearly Vols. 4s. ea0h_-.
“ W011; ' Handbooks. _A Series of Practical Manuals repared under the Direc-
tion ofPAuI. N. HASLUCK, Editor of Work. Illustrated). Cloth, rs. each.
World 05d Wohlders, The. With 400 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. Two Vols,‘
4s. . eac .
Young Blood. A Novel. By E. W. HORNUNG. 65.
[LL Usmn TED MAGAZINES.
The Quiver. Monthly, 6d.
Cassell’s Magazine. Monthly, 6d.
Little Folks Magazine. Monthly, 6d.
The Magazine of Art. Monthly, Is. 4d. _
Cassell’s Saturday Journal. Weekly, Id. ; Monthly, 6d.
Chums. The Illustrated Paper for Boys. Weekly, Id.; Monthly, 6d.
The New Penny Magazine. Weekly, Id.; Monthly, 6d.
Sunday Chimes. Weekly, Id.
' Tiny Tots. Monthly, Id.
IVork. The Ioumal for Mechanics. Weekly, Id.; Monthly, 6d.
Building World. The Journal for the Building Trades. Weekly,
Id. ; Monthly, 6d.
 
The Gardener. Weekly, Id.
'3 Full particulars‘ of CASSELL & COMPANY'S Monthly Serial Publications
will hund in CASSELL & COMPANY'S CUMPLETE CATALOGUE, which may
be had at all Booksellers’, or will be sent post free on application to the Publishers.
CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED. Ludzat‘e Hill, London.
 
 
 
Selection: from Carrel! d: Company’: Publications.
iihles snh i’teligious marks.
Bible Biographies. Illustrated. 18. 6d. each.
The Story of Joseph. Its LCSSOHS {01' To-Day. By the Rev, GEORGE BAXNTON'
The Story of Moses and Joshua. By the Rev. J. TELFORD.
The Story of Judges. By the Rev. J. Wvcussn Gsncn.
The Story of Samuel and Saul. By the Rev. D. C. Tovay.
The Story of David. By the Rev. J. WILD.
 
‘ The Story of Jesus. In Verse. By]. R. MACDUFF,D.D. 15. 5d,
Bible, Casseuts Guinea. With 900 Illustrations and Coloured Maps. Royal "4to.
Leather, :15. net. Persian antique, with corners and clasps, 255, ML
Bible Educator, The. Edited by E. H. PLUMPTRE, D.D. With Illustrations, '
Maps, Sac. Lidmry Edztz'an. Two Double Vols. 245.
Bible Dictionary, Cassell’s Concise. By the Rev. ROBERT HUNTER. LLD"
Illustrated. 75. 6d.
Bible Student in the British Museum 'The. B the Rev. . G, K
M-A- Entirely Ntw and Revi.tcdEditia;:, 15.4d. y ‘ I “CHIN.
Bunyan, Oassell’s Illustrated. With 200 Original Illustrations. 3s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Child's Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. Demy 4to, 8 0 pp. 150:}: Thousand.
Circa) Edith!!!’ 75- 6d- Supenbr Ea’z'tzhn, with 6 Colour: Plates, gilt edges, :05. 6d.
Child's Life of Christ, The. Complete in One Handsome Volume. with about
200 original Illustrations, Cheap Edition, cloth, 7s. 6d.; or with 6 Coloured Plates
cloth, gilt edges, :05. 6d. ' ,
Church 01' England, The. A History for the People. By the Ve R _ H_
SPENCE. 1)-D-. Dean of Gloucester. Illustrated. Complete in 4 Vrdlsqiil cad-13' M’
church Reform in Spain and Portugal. By the Rev. H, E_ NOYES. 11D.
Illustrated. as. 6d.
Commentary for English Readers. Edited by Bishop ELLICOTT. With Con~
tributions by eminent Scholars and Divines :--- .-
New Testament. Original Edition. Three Vols. us. each - or in half.
the set. Popular Edition. Unabridged. Three Vols., 45. 'each. morocco’ ‘'54 “5' 6d’
Old Testament. Original Edition. Five Vols. as. each ' .
£1 11.. 6d. the set. Popular Edition. Unabridged.’ Five voisqis. $.11,“ ha" m°'°°°°'
a.‘ The Complete Set of Eight Volume: in the Popular Edz'ttbn is supplied a: 30;,
Commentary, The New Testament Edited by] Bishop ELLrco'r'r.
Volume Edition. Suitable for School and General se.
Romans. 2s. 6d.
Handy
St. Matthew, 35.66.. Titus. Philemon. Hehrewn.
or s.
at, M kk. 3s. Galatians, Ephesians, and P tandJJaénea. a
St. Lu 8. 111111913 8118- 35- oer u e an J h
at, John. 51'.‘ 6d. Oolossians, Thessalonians, The Revelation. 0 n' 35'
The Acts of the Apostles. and Timoth . 35. An Introduction tothe New
3:. 6d. Testament. :s.6d.
Commentary, The Old Testament. Edited by Bishop ELLICOTT. Handy Volume
Edition. Suitable for School and General Use.
Genesis. 3s.6d. I Leviticus. as. I
Exodus. as. Numbers. as. 6d.
DOi'é Bible. With 200 Full-page Illustrations by GUSTAVE DORE. Popular
Edition. In One Vol. 155. Also in leather binding. (Price on application.)
Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Very Rev. Dean FARRAR, D. D., F. R.S.
LIBRARY EDITION. Two Vols., 21s. ; morocco, ,6: 2s.
POPULAR EDITION. In One Vo . ; cloth, gilt edges, 75. 6d. ; tree-calf, :55.
CHEAP EDITION. Cloth gilt, 35. 6d.
Family Prayer-Book, The._ Edited by the Rev. Canon GARRETT, M.A.. and
the Rev. S. MARTIN. With Fulbpage Illustrations. New Edition. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
Deuteronomy. as. 6d.
 
 
v, - l‘ s ,e’ I v T ,‘_ t u I ‘e r
..v , I 4 _' ‘ ‘ -. '\
 
Selection: [rain Cam!!! do Company: .Publzlcations.
 
"Graven in the Rock ;'.’ or, the Historical Accuracy of the Bible conrmed by
reference to the Assyrian and Egyptian Scultures in the British Museum and else-
where. Hy the Rev. Dr. SAMUnL KINNS, F. .A.S., &c. &c. Illustrated. Library
Edztztm, to Two Volumes, cloth, with top edges gilded, r55. '
"Heart Chords." A Senes of Works by Eminent Divines. In cloth, ts. each.
My Father. B the Rlght Rev. Ashton Oxenden, tHlttilrent‘tm'. By the Very Rev. Dean Bicker-
5
late B‘ h0g0 Montre e .
. y the Rt. Rev. w. Boyd Carpenter, My Walk with God. By the Very Rev. Dean
 
My Bible
HyBIiI-‘Ilrlicgggi oLnife. By Preb. Chadwick D.D. myiiiiiigoiiiihio Divine Life B th V
is es .ssssrssf-stsnri moses rst... .11.’; ° "’
“stern ‘sensitise- By the R“ messing-Sm ’ 1T" ‘‘
“Aspire one. Bythe Rev. G. Matheson, D.D. D.D. ow‘ By Hugh Mac‘mu‘n'
Helps to Belief. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Reli 'ous Diliicultitr
. . of 0
Day. Edited by the Rev. TEIGNMOUTH Stress, M.A.. (.‘.:tu0gn1 of Worcester. :5.
CREATION. By Herve win
M Lord Bilhhpltlhof $313212. ' an” m‘ $3123: By the Rev. Canon Shore, 1L4,
IMCLES- v 0 Rev. nt-owmow Msit- H TONEMBNT. By William co
1m“- m-A- Mares. D.D.. Late Archbishop ory‘if
\
Holy Land end the Bible, The. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in
Halestme. BX the Rev. CUNmNcnAit GHXKIE, D.D. Cltmp Edition. Cloth
g‘tilgsp. Gdkd. lso Supen'ar Edz'h'an, with 24 Collotype Plates. Cloth‘gilt, gilt
e e , 10:.
Life of Christ, The. By the Very Rev. Dean FARRAR, D.D.. F. R.S.
 
CHEAP EDITION. With 16 Full- age Plates. Cloth lit, 35. 6d.
POPULAR EDITION. With :6 Fa -page Plates. Clot gill’. gilt edges, 75. 6d.
LARGE Tvre ILLUSTD. EDITION. Cloth, 7s. 6d. Cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, res. 6d.
ILLUsTRATno 4to Eur-non. Cloth, gilt edges, 75. 6d,
llatin and Vesper Bells. Earlier and_Later Collected Poems (Chiey Sacred).
By J. R. MAcnUrr, D.D. ‘With Frontlspiece. Two Vols. 7s. 6d. the set.
Methodisrn, Side-Lights on the Conicts of, During the Second Quarter of
the Nineteenth Century, 1827-1852. Cloth, 8s. Cheap Edition. Unabridged.
Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Moses and Geology; or, the Harmony of the Bible with Science. By
the Rev. SAMUEL Krmrs, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illus. Library Edition, res. 6d
New Light on the Bible and the Holy Land. By BAsrL T. A. Evn'r'rs, M.A.
Illustrated. Cloth, 75, 6d. -
Old and New Testagnents, Plain Introductions to the Books of the. Con.
raining Contributions by many Eminent Divines. In Two Vols., 35- 6d. each.
Plain Introductions to the Books or the Old Testament. 3336 pages. Edited by
Bishop ELLrco'r'r. 3s. 6d. '
Plain Introductions to the Books of the New Testament. 304 pages. Edited by
Bishop ELuco'r'r. 35. 6d.
Protestantism, The History 0!. By the Rev. J. A. WYLIE, LL.D. Containing
upwards of 600 Origins! Illustrations. Cheap Edition. In Three Vols.. 3s. 6d, each,
"Quiver" Yearly Volume, The. With about 600 Original Illustrations and
Coloured Frontispiece. 75. 6d. Also Monthly, 6d.
St. ‘George for England; and other Sermons preached to Children. Fii
Edz'tzbn. By the Rev. '1‘. THIGNMOUTH SHORE, M.A., Canon of Worcester. .55.
St. Paul, The Life and. Work 01'. By the Very Rev. Dean FARRAR, D.D., F .R.S.
- ILLUSTRATED 4:0 Eur-non. Ls. 6d.
CHEAP EDITION. With :6 Fu page Plates, cloth gilt, 35. 6d.
LIBRARY EDITION. Two Vols, cloth, 24s. ; call", 425.
ILLUSTRATED EDITION, One VoL, ,5: rs. ; morocco, £2 as.
POPULAR Em'rron. Cloth, gilt edges, 75. 6d.
Shortened Church Services and Hymns, suitable for use at Children's Services.
Compiled by the Rev. Canon Suonn'. enlarged Edition. rs.
" Six HundredYears ; " or, Historical Sketches of Eminent Men and Women who
have more or less come into contact with the Abbey and Church of Holy Trinitg,
Minories, from 12133 to :8 3, and some account of the Incumbents, the Fabric, t 0
Plate, 8n:- Etc. y the icar, the Rev. Dr. SAMUEL KINNS, F.R.A.S., Etc. 8n.
With 65 Illustrations. :55. q,
"Bunday:” Its Origin, History, and Present Obligation. By the Von. Arc -
deacon Hnsslw, D.C.L. Frlt Ea'z'tzbn, 7s. 6d.
 
 
 
Selection: from Carrel! 4: Company’: Puélz'cafz'ans.
(mutational more one gillhlll' manuals"
 
alphabet, Gassell’s Pictorial. Mounted‘d on Linen, with Rollers. as.
Mounted with Rollers, and varnished. as. 6 .
Arithmetic :--Howa.rd's Art of Reckoning, By C. F. HOWARD. Paper, rs.;
-. cloth, as. Enlarged Edition, 5s. '
_Lrithmetics, The “Belle Sauvage." By GEoRcE RICKS, B.Sc. Loud. With
Test Cards. (List on application.)
Atlas, Gassell’s Popular. Containing 24 Coloured Maps. rs. 6d.
Blackboard Drawing. By W. E. SPARKES. With‘52 Full-page Illustrations. 5s.
Book-Keeping. By THEODORE Jones. For SCHOOLS, 25.; or cloth, 3s. For
THE MILLION, as. ; or cloth, 3s. Books for Jones’s System, Ruled Sets of, as.
‘British Empire Map of the World. By G. R. PARKIN and J. G. BARTHQLOMEW.
F.R.G.S. Mounted or Folded. 255.
' Chemistry, The Public School. By J. H. ANDERSON, M.A. as. 6d.
Cookery for Schools. By LIZZIE HERITAGE. 6d.
Dulce Domum. _Rh mes and. Songs for Children. Edited by JOHN FARMER.
Old Notation an Words, 5s.-»" N .B.-—~The Words of the $0255 (with the Airs both
in Tonic Sol-Fa and Old Notation) can be had to Two Parts, . each.
England, A History of. From the Landing of Julius Cmsar to the Present Day.
By H. 0. ARNoLD-FoRs'rttR, M. P. Ranked Edz'tz'an- F any Illustmicd- $5-
Bnglioh Literature. A'Pirst Sketch 01', from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. By Prof. HENRY MoRLEv. 7s. 6d. -
Euclid, Cassell’s. Edited by Prof. WALLACE, MA. 15.
Euclid, The First P0111‘ Books of. New Edition. In paper, 6d. ; cloth, 9d.
Perm Crops. By JOHN WRIGHTSON, M. R.A.C., etc. Fully Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Pounders of‘the Empire. By PHILIP Gums. Illustrated. Cloth, rs. 8d.
French, Cassell's Lessons in. New and Revised’ Edition. In Two Parts.
Cloth. 25- ¢ach- Complete in One Vol., 35. 6d. Key, rs. 6d.
French-English and English-French Dictionary. 3s. 6d. or 5s. -
French Reader, Cassell's Public School. By GUILLAUME S. CONRAD. 2s. 6d.
Galbraith and Haughton’s Scientic Manuals.
Astronomy. 63's. guclid. Books I.,lI., III. as. 6d. Books IV.,V..VI. med. Mathematical
Tables. 3:. ties. as. 6d. Hydroetatics. . 6d. Algebra. Part I., cloth 2s. 6d.
Complete, 75. 6d. 'I‘iges and. Tidal Currents, with TldalsCards, 3s. '
Gaudeamlm. Songs for Colleges and Schools. Edited by JOHN FARMER. 55.
Words only, paper, 6d. ; cloth, 9d.
Geography, A Practical Method of Teaching. By J. H. OVERTON, F.G.S.
Vol. I.--»England and Wales. Vol. II.--»Europe. 6d. each.
Geometry, Pirst Elements of Experimental. By PAUL BERT. Illustrated. rs. 6d.
German Dictionary, Cassell's. German-English, English-German. Cheap
Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; half-morocco, 5s.
German Reading, First Lessons in. By A. Jiios'r. Illustrated. rs.
Hand and ‘Eye Training. By GEORGE RICKS, B.Sc., and JOSEPH VAUGHAN,
Illustrated. Vol. 1. Designing with Coloured Papers. Vol. II. Cardboard Work.
as. each. Vol. III. Colour Work and Design. 35.
Hand. and Eye Training. By G. RICKS, 8.80. Two Vols., with 16 Coloured
Plates in each. 65. each. Cards for Glass U88. Five Sets. rs. each.
Historical Cartoons, Cassell’s Coloured. Size 45 in. x 35 in.. 2s.each. Mounted
on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 55. each. (Descriptive pamphlet, :6 pp., rd.)
in Danger's Hour; or, Stout Hearts and Stirring Deeds. A Book of Adventures
for School and Home. With Four Coloured Plates and numerous Illustrations. Cloth,
rs. 8d. Bevelled boards, 2s. 6d.
Italian Lessons, with Exercises, Cassell's. In One Vol. 2s.
Latin Dictionary, Oassell’s. (Latin-English and English-Latin.) 3s. 6d.;
half-morocco. 55.
Latin Primer, The Now. By Prof. P. POSTGATE. 25. 6d.
Latin Primer, The First. By Prof. OSTGATE. rs.
Latin Prose for Lower Forms. By M. A. BAYFIELD, M.A. as. 6d.
Laws Isii‘g-lvery-gay Life. For the Use of Schools. By H. 0. ARNOLD-FORSTER,
o I IS. 6
 
 
Selections from Carrel! do Company’: Publz'mtiom.
Little Folks’ History oi-England. By Isa CRAIG-KNOX. Illustrated. rs. 6d.
Making of the Home, The. By Mrs. SAMUEL A. BARNETT. rs. 6d.
Map Building for Schools. A Practical Method of Teaching Geography
(England and Wales). By J. H. OVERTON, F.G.S. 6d.
Marlborough Books :---Arithmetio Examples. 35. French Exercises. 3s.6d. French
Grammar. as. do. German Grammar. 3s. 6d. ‘
Mechanics, Applied. By JOHN PERRY, M.,E., D.Sc., 8:0. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.
Mechanics for Young Beginners. By the Rev. 1. G. EA'STON, M.P.. Cheap
Edition, 25. 6d. '
Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in Practical. B
R. G. BLAINE, M. E. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With 79 Illus. as. 6!
Metric Charts, Cassell's Approved. Two Coloured Sheets, 42 in. by 22% in.
illustrating by Desiins and Explanations the Metric System. is. each. Mounted
with Rollers, 3s. eac . The two in one with Rollers, 5s.
Models and Common Objects, How to Draw from. By W. E. SPARKES.
Illustrated. 3s. _
Models, Common Objects, and Casts of Ornament, How to Shade from. By
W. E. SPARKES. ‘With 25 Plates by the Author. 35. ‘
Natural History Coloured Wall Sheets, Oassell’s New. Consisting of 16
subjects. Size, 39 by 3: in. Mounted on rollers and varnished. 3s. each.
Object Lessons from Nature. By Prof. L. C. MIALL, F. L.S., F.G.S. Fully
Illustrated. New and Enlarged Edition. Two Vols. 15. 6d. each.
Physiology for Schools. By ALFRED T. SCHOFIELD, M.D.. M.R.C.S., &c.
Illustrated. rs. 9d. . Three Parts, paper covers, 5d. each; or cloth limp, 6d. each.
Poetry for Children, Cassell’s. 6 Books, 1rd. each; or complete in One VoL,
limp cloth. 6d.
Popular ‘Educator, Oassell's. With Illustrations, Coloured Plates. and Maps
in Colours. Cheap Editzon. In Eight Vols., 3s. 6d. each. Also at 5s. each. "
Readers, Cassell’s "Belle Sauvage.” An Entirely New Series. Fully Illus.
trated. Strongly bound in cloth. (List on application.)
Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. ARNOLD-FORSTER, M.P. Cloth, IS. 6d. : also a
Scottish Edition,.cloth, rs. 6d.
 
‘Readers, Cassell’s Classical. Vol. 1., rs. 8d. : Vol. II., as. 6d. .
 
Reader, The Temperance. By J. DENNIS Hmn. rs. or rs. 6d.
Readers, Cassell’s “Higher Class.“ (List on application.)
Readers, Oassell’s Readable. Illustrated. (List on application.)
Readers for Infant Schools, Coloured. Three Books, 4d. each.
Readers, Geographical, Gassell’s New. Illustrated. (List on application-)
Readers, The Modern Geographical. Illustrated throughout. (Liston application.)
Readers, The Modern School. Illustrated. (List on application.)
Rolit. An entirely novel system of learning French. By J. J. TYLOR. 35.
Round the Empire. By G. R. PARKIN. With a Preface by the Rt. Hon. the
Earl of Rosebery, K.G. Fully Illustrated. :5. 6d.
Sculpture, A Primer of. By E. Roscoe MULLINS. Illustrated. as. 6d.
Shakspere’s Plays for School Use. Illustrated. 9 Books. 6d. each.
Spelling, A Complete Manual 01’. By I. D. MORELL, LL. D. Cloth. rs. Comp
Edition. Sti' cloth, 6d. _
Technical Educator, Cassell’s. A New C clopaedta of Technical Education,
with Coloured Plates and Engravings. Comp etc in Six Vols.. 3s. 6d. each.
Technical Manuals, Cassell’s. Illustrated throughout. :6 Vols.. from as. to4s. 6d.
(Lil-{free on application.)
Technology, Manuals 01'. Edited bay: Prof. AYRTON, F.R.S.. and RICHARD
WoRMsLL, D.Sc., M.A. Illustrated oughout. (List on application.)
Things New and old; or, Stories from English History. By H. O. ARNOLD-
FORSTER, M.P. Illustrated. Cloth. Seven Books, from ed to rs. 8d.
World or Ours/Thais. By H. O. ARNOLD-FORSTER, M. P. Fully Illustrated. Cheap
Edition, as. 6 .
Young Citizen, The; or, Lessons in our Laws. By H.'F.'LESTER, B.A. Fully
Illustrated. 2s. 6d. Also issued in Two Parts under the title of " Lessons in Our
Laws." rs. 6d. each.
 
 
 
Solootions'from Carroll d: Company’: Publications.
 
ioohs - for sung i‘glenple.
Master qharlie. By C. S. HARRISON and S. H. Hanan. Illustrated.
Coloured boards. rs. 6d.
The Master of the Strong Hearts. By E. S. BROOKS. Illustrated, 25, 6d_
whys and Other whys; or, Curious Creatures and Their Tales. By S. H,
Hausa. With Illustrations by HARRY'B. NEILSON. Paper boards, 35. 6d.; cloth
boards, 55. '
Micky Magee’s Menagerie; or, Strange Animals and their Doings. By
S. H. Hausa. With 8 Coloured Plates and other Illustrations by HARRY B. N mason.
Coloured Boards, rs. 6d.
Two Old Ladies, Two Foolish Balries, and a Tom Cat. The Surprising Ad.
‘ ventures of Tug'py and Tue. A New Fairy Story. By MAGGIE BROWNR with
Four Coloured lates and Illustrations in text. Cloth, 3s. 6d,
Britain’s Bell of Glory; or, the Victoria Cross, its Heroes, and their Valour.
By D. H. PARRY. With Eight Full-page Illustrations by STANLEY L, WOOD,
Cheap Edition, Cloth, 35. 6d.
The Victoria Painting Book for Little Folks. Containing about 300 mus-
trations suitable for Colouring, rs. _ _
"Little Po ” Halt-Yearly Volume. Containing 480 pages of Letterpre$S,with
Six Full-page Coloured Plates, and numerous other Pictures printed, in Colour,
Picture boards, 35. 6d.; or cloth gilt, gilt edges, 55.
Bo-Peep. A Treasury for the Little Ones. Yearly Vol. With Original Stories
and Verses. Illustrated with Eight F ull-page Coloured Plates, and numerous other
Pictures printed in Colour, Elegant picture boards, as._6d. ; cloth, 3s, 6d,
Beneath the Banner. Being Narratives of Noble Lives and Brave Deeds. By
F. J. Cnoss. Illustrated. Limp cloth, rs. ; cloth boards, as.
Good Morning 1 Good Night 1 Morning and Evening Readings for Children, by
F. J. CRoss. Illustrated. Limp cloth, 15.; cloth boards, as.
On Board the Esmeralda; or, Martin Leigh's Log. By JOHN C. Hu'rcnason.
Illustrated. Cheap Edition. ts. 6d.
Notable shipwrecks. Cilia? Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Limp cloth, rs.
Superior Edition. With till-page Illustrations. as.
Five Stars in a Little Pool. By EDITH CARRINGTON. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
Merry Girls of England. By L. T. Means. 3s. 6d.
Beyond the Blue Mountains. By L. T. Manna. Illustrated. 55.
The Cost of a Mistake. By SARAH PITT. Illustrated. New Edition. as. 6d.
Pleasant Work for Busy Fingers. By MAGGIE BROWNE, Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Magic at Home. By Prof. HOFFMAN. Fully Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
Little Mother Bunch. By Mrs. Monaswon'rn. Illustrated. New Edition. 2s. 6d.
Gift Books for Young People. By Popular Authors. With Four Original
Illustrations in each. Clothgilt, rs. 6d. each.
Fritters: or, "It's a Long Lane that has Maj or Monk's Motto: or, "Look Before
0 urning." you Leap."
mggustgd ougtliiii'tv'iiiigordvgtdgogiua Tinzh'x'ailalllgg 391181: or. "All is not Gold
Rhoda's Reward.
Jack Marston's Anchor. Ruth 5 we'worki 013' NO P81118- 110 Game.”
Uncle William's Charges.
Frank's Life-Battle.
"Golden Mottoes f’ Series, The. Each Book containing 208 pages, with Four
F ull-page Original Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, as. each.
"Nil Dewlzndm” 3!‘ the RW- F- Lang‘ " Aim at it Sure End." By Emily Searcheld.
brid c.
“Foreiiiost it‘ I Can.” By Helen Atteridge. " He Conquers who Endures." By the Author
“Honour is 111 Guide." By Jeanie Herlng of "May Cunningham's Trial," are,
(Mrs. Adams- cton).
" Cross and Crown” Series, The. With Four Illustrations in each Book. Crown
live, :56 pages, 2s. 6d. each.
Heroes of the Indian Ern ire - or, Stories of Adam H b ' :
‘Velour and. Victory. pBy E'rnest Foster. Coveigntmnixzge SA’ 5):: of Kirk and
Thrmlith Trial to Triurnph: or, “ The
Royal Way.” By Madeline Bonavia Hunt. No-Eggl- H'irk'lglio Storyoi' the Lost Vestal.
“Ringo Su‘er: A Btory of the Jews. By Marshal? ‘ Y Chslia Days- By Emma
e.
3, Fire and sword, A story of the Hug-“8., Freedom's Sword: A Story of the Days of
note. By Thomas Archer. Wallace and Bruce. By Annie 5. Swan.
 
 
Selection: from Cane/1 (i: Company’: Publzl'atz'om.
 
"Peeps Abroad " Library. Cheap Editions. Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. each.
Blmbles Bound London. By C. 1- Heroes of Every-Day Life. By Lam-a Lam‘
Matéaux. Illustrated- Illustrated.
f m A m f Modern Explorers. By Thomas Frost. Illus-
l’nwe and Clew- BY °“°. ° .. 1°“ ‘‘ “5 ° trated. mend Cheaper neat-on.
" Poems written for a child‘ ustmted‘ Early Explorers. By Thomas Frost.
Home Chat .with our Youn Folko. ill
The True Robinson cmoes' tratecl throu bout. 8 u,
Peeps Abroad for Folks at Home. llius- Jungle. Po and Plain. lllustrateo
uatod throughout- throughout.
Three-end-Sixpenny Books for Young People. With Original Illustrations.
Cloth gilt. 3s. 6d. each.
Th” “exing; "f “1 camngton- By A. Sweet om Graduate. By 1.. 12mm.
L' T‘ M f The White House at Inch. Gow. By Sarah
Told Out of School- By A, . Danicm Pm. I
Build if? and Tiger L 5'' 31’ L- T- Polly- By L. 'r. Meade. .
C .
The Romance of Invanuom By James + The Palace Beautiful. By K T. Meade
Burnlciy. "Follow my Leader.”
9 Baohi‘ul ‘li‘teen. By L. ‘r, Meade, . For Fortune and. Glory.
The King's Comznand. A. Story for Girls. Lost Among whim iii-‘mm
By Maggie Symmgton. A World of Girls. By I. T. Meade.
Books marked thus 1- can also be had in extra cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. each.
Books by Bdtvard 3. Ellis. Illustrated. Cloth, 25. 6d. each.
In Red Indian Trails. In the Days of the Pioneers. Foot rinto 1n the Parent.
Uncrowning a. King. The Phantom of the River. The tubber Hunters
Two Boys in Wyoming. The Great Cattle Trail. “ (formerly Up the Tapajoal.
Scouts and Comrades, or 311°C! with suenc- Ned in the Bloom liouoo.
Tecumseh. Chief oi‘ the The Path in the Rene. A Ste of Pioneer Life in
Shewanoee. Th0 Hunters 01'- the Ozark. Kontuc y.
Klondike Nu§etm The camp in the Mountains The Yonn BED-0116133.
common and nation. Ned in the Woodo. A Tale The Lost ' all.
4 strange Craft and its of Early Days in the West. Camp-Fire and Wigwam.
Wonderful Voyage. Down the Mississippi. Lost in the Wilda.
Pontiac. Chief of the The Last War Trail. Loot in Samoa. A Tale 0|
Ottawa. A. Tale of the Ned on the River. A Tale Adventuroln the Navigate;
siege of Detroit, oi‘ lndian Rive: Warfare. Islands.
 
Tad; or. “Getting Even" with Him.
Books by Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. 15. 6d. each.
 
Lanny in the Forest. Wolf Ear the Indian. The Boy Hunters of Ken
Tnenaughter ofthe cm i‘- t k '
captured 53? Indians- tain. 6 Red. IIlisgeather. ‘
Oaaaell’e Picture Story Books. Each containing 60 pages. 6d. each.
Lime Talks, Daley-‘o Sto Book. Auntie'a Stories.
Bright Stars. Dots Story 001:. ]_3lrdle'5 Story Book.
Nursery J oyll- A Nest of Storiea. Little Chimes.
Pet’; Posy, Good-Night Stories. A Sheet‘ of Tales.
Tiny Tales. Chats for Small Chatterere. DBWdrOD Stories.
illustrated Books for the Little Ones. Containing interesting Stories. All
Illustrated. gd. each.
Bri ht Tales and Funny Bible Picture: for Boys Those Golden Sands.
lot and Girls.
‘11' Little Mothers and their
Merry Little Tale!” Firell ht Stories. Children. -
Lime Tale‘ for Little’ Sunlig t and Shad-6' Our Schoolday Hours.
Poo 16- - .
Ilitgetgeoplo and Their %gaigg?hgez‘nd mm Creatures Tame.
 
e s.
Tales Told for Sunday. Fur- Creatures Wild.
Sunday Stories for 81ml! Bumble‘ and Swap” XE ggtt'ltsngyxdtgeentgggefn.
e0 1e. Tittle Tattle Tales.
Btoriespand Pictures for Dumb Friends. our Haida? Hom-
Sunday. Home Farm Friends. Wandering ‘WE-ya.
Shilling Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories.
Bunty and the Boye- Burly Bob. The Cost of Revenge.
The Heir or Elmdele. The History oi’ Five Litue Clever Frank.
Thorns and. Tangleo. Pitchers. The Ferryman of Brill.
The cuckoo in the Robina. The Giant’: Cradle. my Maxwell.
Not. 811a,: and. Doll.
 
 
Seledzbm frorn Carrel! d: Company’: Publications.
 
Elghteenpenny Story Booke. All Illustrated throughout.
I‘hreewee Ulster Lessies. Roses from Thorns. Tom Morris's Error-
UP the Ladder. Faith's Father. “ Eggqimn mood—Through
Dick's Hero; and, other By Land and Ben. The (511-1 with the Golden
Stories. _ Jail‘ and Left’. Looks.
The Chip Boy. The Young Berrinztons. Stories 0!‘ the Olden T11116-
 
library of Wonders. Illustrated Gift-books for Boys. Cloth. 15. 6d.
Wonders of Bodily Strength and 511111- ] Wonderful Balloon Ascents.
 
Albums for Children. With Full-page Illustrations. 3s. 6d. each.
The Album for Home. School. and may. Picture Album 01 All Sorts. Illustrated.
My Own Album of Animals- The Chit-Chat Album. Illustrated.
 
"Wanted--a. King" Series. Cheap Edition. Illustrated. 25. 6d. each.
Fairy ‘Ta-lea in Other Lands. By Julie Wanted-m King; or, How Merle set the
Goddard. Nursery Rhymes to Rights. By Maggie
Robin's Bide. By Ellinor Davenport Adams. Browne.
 
 
The "World in Pictures" Series. Illustrated. throughout. Cheap Edition.
15- 6d. each. .
All the Russian. Glimpses of South America.
Chat-e about Germany. The Eastern Wonderland (Japan).
Peeps into China. The Land of Temples (Indie).
The Land of Pyramids (Egypt). The Isles of the Pacic.
 
two-Shilling Story Books. All Illustrated.
Stories of the Tower. The Four Cats of the Tip- Poor Nelly.
Mr. Burke’! Nlecee. pertons. In Mischief Again.
The children of the court. Little Folks‘ Sunday Book. Peggy, and other Tales.
 
Books for the Little Ones. Fully Illustrated.
The Bunda Scrap Book. With Several The Old Fai Tales. With Original Illus-
Hundred llustrations. Boards 3:.6d. cloth. tratlons. Clot , rs.
giltedges.5s. _ Cassell's Swiss Family Robinson. Illus-
Caesell’s Robinson Crusoe. with me trated.‘ Cloth, 6d.; gilt edges, 55.
Illustrations. Cloth 39.. 6d.; It edges. 5s._ The New "Lit 1e Folksf‘ Painting- Book.
Cassell'e Pictorial Scrap 001:. In St: Containing nearly 350 Outline Illustrations suit-
Books. 6d. each. ' able for Colouring. rs.
I'he World'a Workers. A Series of New and Original Volumes by Popular
Authors. With Portraits printed on a tint as Frontispiece. is. each.
John Caesell. By G. Holden Pike. Thomas A.Edieon and Samuel F. B. Morse.
Richard cobdon. Sir Titus Salt and George Moore.
Chair-ice Haddon Spurgeon. By G. Holden George and Robert Stephenson.
C. ' _.
.._.- Charles Dickens.
General Gordon. 3 6
Sir Henry Hgvelock and Colin Campbell, Turner the Artist-
e
Lord .
David Livingstone. Abraham Lincoln.
Be amin Franklin.
' Dr. Arnold oi‘ Rugby. By Rose 13. 5611:,
The Earl of Shaftesbury. -—--
Dr. Guthrie. Father Mathew. Elihu Bur- Sarah Robinson. Agnes Weston. and Mrs.
rltt, Joseph Livesey. Meredith.
G-eorze Muller and. Andrew Reed. Mrs. Somerville and. Mary Carpenter.
“- A! u. only.
‘of! The above Work: can also 6: had Three in One Va!" dathgilt edger. 3r.
 
 
CASSELL (f: COMPANY, Lmzzted, Ludgate 17:71, London.
Pans, New York 62-’ fife/bounce.
5'
* P ‘menu; 1-1’
 
.' ,"-
 
 
4
- | - ’
-_f.k¢an¥mw"
w
 
 
Mm
\
) <
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iiiillllmuuum ' .
mm
W...“
‘ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
“Wm M“
lilll‘6WWW“
‘lll11iiii111lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt.
lllllll
iiiiiiWWW“
llllullluuuumumumuiii
um
llmum11lss.W..111t.W........wWW ,
uuuuuuuuumuuuuutumult:uuut.W“...W...“
.111111111111111111111unuuiw'
1 l m ' ' ,
nu ' ' Hum
iiiiiiilllllllliwlllil ‘
ll ‘
‘“Wmmumwm I
lllllllllllliiiiiww
' , llllll“““lllllWWllllWWHlillllllllwwu‘
We... '
WWW
mu:
..WWW
law“... '
will?“
“mum... " ‘ WW ll1:1:1:11111111111111:1;...W
W
um
tum... ‘
WW, WW t.tttt.tttt.tttt.tttt.tttWW.“
 
