
 -L i.. - -------


- -'I. --- -:) ---~I -i -- -~

THE


LI I E7
And Strange Surprizing,
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of O R K MARINER:
Who lived eight and twenty Years a-l alone
in an un-inhabited Ifland -on the Coall of A;;crarda
near the Mouth of the Great River Oroonrqzie; having been call on Shore by Shipwreck, wiherein all
the Men perillied but himdfelf.
With an A C C O U NT how he was at lall'asflrangly deliver'd by P Y R A T E S.


Written By Himfif.
i The SI XTH    EDITION       Adorned with Cuts',
In Two VOL.



&


L 0 ND 0 N: Printed for Wl Taylcr, at the Shlip and
llack-S-ian, in Pater-NMfler-R&aw. MDCCXXII.




U Ao,t~4q H E
f.to  Y1


Fq erver the, Story ofanT Priva.te
ATfl' s Azd'venitPres' Lin the
(// rid were wcorth ma-kig Puiblitdk, and -TI'ere acceptable when;
~PT~ilfh4''6l, the Editor of thi'sAc
cot~nt thinks this will befo
The   W,onders ofthis Mm'n s
Lift exceedad1 thbi (he thinks) is
to be found extant; the L/ of one
Mzlfan  b eing' krce capablde ofll
greaiter Varieqjy.
The Story is told with Mlode fy,
wVith Serioz<'nef, znd wth a reli
gioris 4plcation ofEvents to the
Vfes to which zuf M2en alwizvjs,appl~ them (iz )to the 1Jfr, rdion




The PR EF AC E. I
of others by this Example, and to
juftify and honour the Wifdom of
Providence in all the Variety of
our Circummfances, let them happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing,
to be a jui Hiftory of Fact; neither is there anj Appearance of
Fiion    in it;  eAnd however
thinks, becaute all fuch Thing& are
diJputed, that the Improvement  f
it, as well to the Diverjion, as to
the Infitruion of the Reader, will
be theme; and as fch, he thinks,
without farther Compliment to the
World, he does them a great Serwvice in the Publication.
THE







iL I F E
AND
ADVEN TU RES
O F
Robinon Crufoe, &c.
Was born in the Year 1622, in the City
of Trk, of a good Family, tho' not of
that Country, my Father being a'        oreigner of Bremen, who fettled firf at
R Hull: He got a good Eftlate by Merchandize, and leaving off his Trade, lived
afterwards at Tork, from whence he had married my
Mother, whofe Relations Were named Robinfn,   a very
good Family in that Cotry, and from whom I was
called Robinfon Kreuttner; but by the uftial Corruption of Words in England, we are now call'd, nay, we
call our telves, and write our Name Crufce, and fo my
Companions always call'd me.        -
B                     I




( 2 )
I had two elder Brothers, one of which was Lieu
tenant Colonel to an Englijb Regiment of Foot in F1a
4ers, formerlycommanded by the famous Col. Lockb-t
4tid was killed at the Battle near Dunkirk againfi the
Spanardnis: What became of my Second Brother I never knew, any more than my Father or Mother did.
know what was become of me.
Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred to
any Trade, my Head began to be Iill'd very early with
rambling Thoughts: My Father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent Share of Learning, as far
as Houfe-Education, and a CountryFree-School generally
goes, and defign'd me for the Law; but I would be
iatisfy'd with nothing but going to Sea; and my Incli
nation to this led me fo flrongly againft the Will, nay
the Commands of my Father, and againfi all the En.
treaties and Perfwafions of my Mvother and other
Friends, that there feemed to be tbmething fatal in that
Propenfion of Nature tending diretly to the Life-of
M4ilery which was to befal me.
My Father, a wife and grave Man, gave me ferious
and excellent Counfel againit what he fobre-faw was my
Defign. He called me one Morning into his Chamber,
where he was confined by the Gout, and expoftllated
very warmly with me upon this Subjet: He ask'd me
what Reafons more than a meer wandring Inclination
I had for leaving my Father's Houfe and my native
Country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a Profpe& of raifing my Fortune by Application and
Induftry, with a Life of Ea(e and Pleaftre: He told me
it was. for Men ofdefperate Fortunes on one Hand, or of
afpiring, faperiourFortunes on the other, and who went
abroad upon Adventures, to rife by Enterprize, and
make themfelves famous in Undertakings of a Nature
out of the common Road i that thefe things were all ei
ther too far above me, or too far below me; that nine
was the middle State, or what might be called the upper Station of 06W Zife, which be had fQund by long
Experince was th        e hell State in the World; the mot
uitecd to human Happinefs, not expofec to the Miferies
and Hardlfhiip the Labour and Suffrrings,of the mevhanickPart of Mankind, and not embarafi'd with the
Prido




( 3 )
Pride, Luxury, Ambition and Envy of the upper Part
of Mankind. He told me, I might judge of the Happi;
nefs of this State, by this one thing, sit. That this
was the State of Life which all other People envied;
that Kings have frequently lamented the miferable
Confequencesof being born to great Things, and wilh'd
they had been placed in the middle of the two Extremes,
between the Mean and the Great; that the wife Maa
gave his Tcftimony to this as the juft Standard of true
Felicity, when he prayed to have neither Poverty oC
Riches.
He bid me obferve it, and I fbould always find, that
the Calamities of Life were Ihar'd among the upper and
lower Part of Mankind; but that. the middle Station
had the feweft Difafters, and was not expos'd to fo
many Viciffitudes as the higher or lower Part of Man.
kind; nay, they were not fubjeaed to fo many Diflem.
pers and Uneafinefes either of Body or Mind, as thofe
were, who by vicious Living, Luxury and Extravagances on one Hand, or by hard Labour, want of Neceffaries, and mean or infuflicient Diet on the other Hand,
bring Diftempers upon themfelves by the natural Confequences of their Way of Living; That the middle Station of Life was calculated for all Kind of Virtues, and
all Kind of Enljoyments; that Peace and Plenty were
the Handmaids of a middle Fortune; that Temperance,
Moderation, Quietnefs, Health, Society, all agreeable
Diverfions, and all defirable Pleafures, were the Blef-'
iings attending the middle Station ofLife;that this way
Men went filently and fmoothly thro' the World, and
comfortably outtf it; not embarafs'd with the Labours
of the Hands or of the Head, not fold to a Life'of Slavery for daily Bread, or harrafs'd with perplexed Cir.
cumfiances, which rob the Soul of Peace, and the Body of
Rell; nor enraged with the Paffion of Envy, orthe fecret
burning Lulf of Ambition for great things; but in eafy Circumftances fiding gently thro' the World, and
fenfibly tailing the Sweets of Living, without the Bitter,
feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's
Experience to know it more fenfibly.
After this, he prefs'd me earneftly, and in the mot
affe~ionate manner, not to play the young Man, nor t
B z                preci.




(4)
precipitate my felfinto Mileries which Nature and the
tration of Liie I was born in, feem'd to have provided
againl; that I was under no Neceifity of fcekirg my
Lread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour
to enter me fairly into the Station of Life which he had
b)een juft recommending to me; and thatif I was not very ealy and happy in the World, it muft be my meer
late, or Fault that muft hinder it, and that he fhould
have nothing to anDvwer for, having thus ditcharged his
Duty in warning me againft Mealures which he knew
would be to my hurt: In a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me if I would flay and fettle at
Home, as he dire&ed; fo he would not have ib much
hand in my ivi isfortunes, as to give me any Encouragement to go away: And to clol all, he told me, I had
my elder Brother for an Example, to whom he had ufed
the fame earnedt Ferfwafions to keep him frcm going
into the Low Country Wars, but could not prevail,
his young Decfres prompting him to run into the Army,
where he was killed; and tho' he laid he would not ceafe
to pray for me, yet he would venture to fiy to me,that if
1 did take this foolifh Step, God would not bleis me,
and I would have Leifure hereafter to refit& upon having negleced his Counfel, when there might be none
to aflift in my Recovery..I obferved in this lafd part of his Difcourfe, which
was truly Prophetick, tho' I fuppofe my Father did not
know it to be fo himfelt; I fay, 1 obferv'd the Tears
run down his Face very plentifully, efpecially when
he fpoke of my Brother who was killed; and that when
he fpoke of my having Leilure to repent, and none to
aflf me, he was lo mov'd, that he broke off the Ditl
courfe, and told me, his Heart was tb full, he could fay
no more to me.
I was fincerely affe&ed with this Difcourfe, as indeed who could be otherwiie? and I refolv'd not to
think of going Abroad any more, but to fettle at Home
according to my Father's Defire: But alas! a few Days
wore it alloff and in fhort, to prevent any of my Fa,.
ther's farther Importunities, in a fewWeeks afterlrefolv-*
ed to run quite away from him. However, I did not atc
fo haltily neither as the firft heat ofmyRefolution promped




( 5 )
ed, but I took my Mother at a time when I thought
her a little plealanter than ordinary, and told her, that
my Thoughts were fo entirely bent upon feeing the
World, that it hould never fettle to any thing with ReIblution encugh to go through with it, and my Father
had better give me his Conient, than force me to go
without it; that I was now eighteen Years old, which
was too late to go Apprentice to a Trade, or Clerk to
an Attorney; that 1 was lure, if I did, 1 Ihould never
ferve out my Time, but I lhI uld certainly run away
from my Mafter before my Time was out, and go to
Sea; and if fhe would fpeak to my Father to let me go
one Voyage abroad, ifl came home again and did not
like it, I would go no more, and 1 would promife by a
double Diligence to recover the Time that 1 had lott.
This put my Mother into a great PalTon: She told
me, the knew it would be to no purpofe to fpeak to my
Father upon any iuch Subject; that he knew too well
what was my Intereft, to give his Confent to any
thing fo much for my Hurt, and that Ihe wondered how
I could think of any fuch thing, after the Ditcourte
I had had with my Father, and iuhh kind and ten*
der Expreffions as the knew my Father had uled to m 1;
and that in fhort, if f would ruin my felt, there was no
help for me; but 1 might depend I ihould never have
their Confent to it: That for her part ihe would not
have fo much hand in my Deftrufion; and I ihould
never have it to fay, that my Mother was willing when
my Father was not.
Tho' my Mother refufed to move it to my Father,
yet, as I heard afterwards, that fhe reported all the
Ditcourle to him; and that my Father, after fhewvinga
great Concern at it, {aid to ier with a Sigh, That Boy
might be happy if he would flay at Home, but if he
goes Abroad, he will be the moft miterablell Wretch
that ever was born; I can give no Content to it.
It was not till almoft a Year after this that I broke
loofe, tho' in the mean time I continued obftinately
deaf to all Propotals of fettling to Bufinels, and frequently expoltulating with my Father and Mother, about
their being fo poiitively determin'd againft what they
knew my Inclinations prompted me tj. But being one
B 3                  Day'




(6)
Day at Hu/g, where I went cafually, and without any
purpofe of making an Elopement that time; but I fay,
being there, and one of my Companions being going
by `ea to Lindon in his Father's Sllip, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common Allurement of
Seafaring Men, viz That it fhould coil me nothing for
my Paflage, I conifuted neither Father or Mother any
more, nor lb much as lent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of'it asthey might, without asking
God's Bleffing, or my Father's, without any Confide'ration of'Circumnfances or Confequences, and in an ill
Hour, God knows, on the firft of September 1651, I
went on Board a Ship bound for London: Never any
young Adventurer's Misfortunes, I believe, began fooner, or continued longer than mine: The Ship was no
fooner gottenout of the Humber, but the Wind began to
blow, and the Sea to rife in a mol} frightful manner;
and as I had never been at Sea before, I was moll inexpreflibly tick in Body, and terrify'd in Mind: I began
now Ifrioufly to refloe  upon what I had done, and how
jitlly I was overtaken by theJudgment of Heaven for my
wicked leaving my Father's Houfe, and abandoning my
Duty; all the good Counfel of my Parents, my Father's
Tears, and my Mother's Entreaties came now frefh into
my Mind, and my Confcience, which was not yet come
to the Pitch ofHardrefs to which it has been fince, reproach'd me with the Contempt of Advice, and the
Breach of my Duty to God and my Father.
All this while the Storm encreas'd, and the Sea, which
I had never been upon before, went very high, though
nothing like what I have feen many times fince; no,
nor like what I faw a few Days after: Butt it was enough
to affe& me then, who was but a young Sailor and had
never known any thingpf the matter. I expe&ed every
Wave would have fwallowed us up, and that every time
the Ship fell down as I thought it did, in the Trough or
Hollow of the Sea, we ihould never rife more: In this
Agony of Mind, I made many Vows and Refolutions,
that if it would pleafe God to fpare my Life in this
one Voyage, if ever I got once my Foot upon dry Land
again, I would go diredly home to my Father, and newrr fet it into a Ship again while I lived; that I Woaldd'
take




(7)
take his Advice, and never run my felf into fuich Mifre
ries as there any more. Now I faw plaitly the Goodnefs of his Obfervations about the middle Station of Life,
how eafy, how comfortable he had lived all his Days, and
never had been expofed to Tempefts at Sea, or Troubles
on Shore; and in fhort I refolv'd that I would, like a true
penting Prodigal, go home to my Father..Theif wile and fober Thoughts cortinued all the
while the Storm continued, and indeed fome time after;
but the next Day the Wind was abated and the Sea calnier, and  began to be a little inur'd to it: However,
I was very grave for all that Day, being alfo a little Seafick fiill; but towards Night the Weather clear'd up,
the Wind was quite over, and a charming fine Evening
fbllow'd; the Sun went down perfectly clear, and rofe
fo the next Morning, and having little or no Wind, and
a fmooth Sea, the Sun fhining upon it, the Sight was,
as I thought, the moft delightful that ever I faw.
I had flept well in the Night, and was now no more
Sea-fick, but very chearful; looking with wonder upon
the Sea that was fo rough and terrible the Day before,
and could be fo calm and fo pleafant in fo little time after. And now left my good Refolutions flould continue, my Companion, who had indeed enticed me awayE
comes to me, Well Bob, fays he, clapping ire upon the
Shoulder, H iw do you do after it? 1 warrant, you were
frigted, wva'n't you, ladf Nihrt, ruhen it blew but a Ca
full of Wind? A Cap full dyou call it? aid I, 'twas a ter.
rible Stcrm: A Storm, you Fool yu, replies he, do you
tall that a Storm, why- it was nothing at all; give us but
t gbood Ship and Sea-room, and t  hink i nothing of fucb
a guaul of Wind as that; butyoure but a fretl WateSuikrt
L3lb: come let us make a Beol of Punch, and we'll rfet
all that;' dye fee wiat charming Weather 'tis ncwv? To
moke fhorit this fad Part of my Story, we went the way
-of all Sailors, the Punch was made, and I was made half
~drunk with it, and in that one Night's Wickednefs t
drown'd all my Repentance, all my Refle&ions upon my
paft Condu&t, all m  Refolutions for the future. In a
word, as the Sea was return'd to Its fmoothnefs of Surface and fettled Calmnefs by the abatement of that
Storm, fo the Hurry ofy Thoughts being over my
13 4                Fears




(8)
Fears and Apprehenfions ot being fwallow'd up by Sea
being torgotten, and the Current ot my former Defires
rcturn'd, t entirely fbogot the Vows and i-romitis that
I made in my Dilfrefs. 1 found indeed ibmle Intervals
of Rele&ion, and the ferious Thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again fome times; but 1 lhook them
off and rouz'd my ielt'front them as it were from a
Diitemper, and applying my felf to Drinking and Company, foon mailer'd the Return of thofe Fits, (for fo
I call'd them) and I had in five or iix Days got as compleat a Vii&ory over Contcience, as any young Fellow
that refolv'd not to be troubled with it, could defire:
Lut I was to have another Trial for it frill; and Providence, as in luch Cafes generally it does, relblv'd to
leave me entirely without excufe; For if I would not
take this for a Deliverance, the next was to be iich a
one, as the worf and mofl harden'd V\ retch among us
would contefs both the Danger and the Mercy.
The fixth Day of our being at Sea, we came into
Tarmouth Roads; the Wind having been contrary, and
the Weather calm, we had made but little Way fince
the Storm. Here we were oblig'd to come to an Anchor,
and here we lay, the Wind continuing contrary, vi{.
at South-Wefl, for feven or eight Days, during which
time a great many Ships from NewcaJile came into the
time Roads, as the common Harbour where the Ships
might wait for a Wind for the River.
We had not however rid here fo long, but we fhould
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind blew too
freih; and after we had lain four or five Days, blew
very hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as
good as a Harbour, the A nchorage good, and our GroundI' ackle very ftrong, our Men were unconcerned, and
not in the leat apprehenufie of Danger, but fpent the
Time in Reft and Mirth, after the manner of the Sea;
but the eighth Day in the Morning, the Wind increafed,
and we bad all Hands at work to ftrike our Top-Mafls,
and make every thing fnug and clofe, that the Ship
might ride as eatfy as poffible. By Noon the Sea went
very high indeed, and our Ship rid ForecaJie in, ihipped feveral Seas, and we thought once or twice our Anchor had come Home; upon which our Mailer order'd
out




( 9)
out the Sheet- Anchor; lo that we rode with two Anchors a-head, and the Cables vered out to the better End.
By this Time it blew a terrible Storm indeed, and
now I began to lee Terror and Amazement in the Faces
even of the Seamen themtelves. The Matter, tho' vigilant in the Bufinefs of preferving the Ship, yet as he
went in and out of his Cabin by me, I could hear him
fottly to hinlilf' lay feveral times, Lord be merciful to us,
weJhall be all loft, we Jball be all undone; and the like:
During thefe firft Hurries, I was ilupid, lying ftill in my
Cabin, which was in the Steerage, and cannot defcribe
m) Temper: I could ill refume the firtl Penitence which
I had to apparently trampled upon. and tarden'd my
feltagainif: I thought the Bitterneis of Death had been
pat, and that this would be nothing too, like the firft.
But when the Mailaer himfelf came by me, as I faid jutt
now, and faid we fhould be all loft, I was dreadfully
frighted: I got up out of my Cabin, and look'd out;
but fuch a difinal Sight I never faw: The Sea went
lMountains high, and broke upon us every three or four
Minutes: When I could look about, I could fee nothing but Difirefs round us: Two Ships that rid nearus, we found, had cut their Mails by the Board, being.
deep loaden; and our Men cry'd out, that a Ship which
rid about a Mile a-head of us, was founder'd.  Two
more Ships being driven fronm their Anchors, were run
out of the Roads to Sea, at all Adventures, and that not
with a Mail (landing. The light Ships fared the beflt
as not fo much labouring in the Sea; but two or three
of them drove, and came dole by us, running away with
only their Sprit-ail out, before the Wind.
Towards Evening the Mate and Boatfwain begI'd.
the Mailer of our Ship to let them cut away the ForeMad, which he was very unwilling, to: But the Boatriain protefting to him, that if he did not, the Ship
would founder, he contented; and when they bad cut:
away the Fore-mall, the Main-mal flood fo loofe, and
lhook the Ship, to much, they were obliged to cut her
away alfo, and make a clear Deck.
Any one may judge what a Condition I mall be in
at all this, who was but a young Sailor, and who had
bWn in fuich a Fright before at but a little. But if I
B 5        '        ca




( to )
can exprefs at this diftance the Thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more Horror of Mind
upon accoiut of my former Convitions, and the havhig returned from them to the Refolutions I had wickedly taken at firft, than I was at Death itfelf; and
thefe, added to the Terror of the Storm, put nie in fuch
a Condition, that I can by no Words deferibe it. But
the worif was not come yet; the Storm continued with
fuch Fury, that the Seamen themfelves acknowledged
they had never known a worfe. We had a good Ship,
but fhe was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea, that
the Seamen every now and then cried out, the would
founder. It was my Advantage in one refpe&, that I
Aid not know what they meant by founder, till I en.
uir'd. However, the Storm was fo violent, that I faw
what is not often feen, the Mafter, the Boatfwain, and
fome others more fenfible than the reft, at their Prayers, and expe&ing every moment when the Ship would
go to the Bottom. In the middle of the Night, and
under all the reft of our Diffreffes, one of the Men that
had been down on purpofe to fee, cried out we had
fprung a Leak; another faid, there was four Foot Wa.
-ter in the Hold. Then all Hands were called to the
Pump. At that very Word my Heart, as I thought,
-died within me, and I fell backwards upon the fide of
ny Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However, the
Men rouz'd me, and told me, that I that was able to
ido nothing before, was as well able to pump as another,
at which I ftirr'd up, and went to the Pump, and
vork'd very heartily. While this was doing, the Ma.
Qer ibeing tome light Colliers, who, not able to ride out
the Storm, were oblig'd to flip and run away to Sea,
wnd would come near us, order'd to fire a Gun as a Signal ofDiftrefs. I who knew nothing what that meant,
*ias fo furprized, that I thought the Ship had broke, or
fome dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was fo
furprized, that I fell down in a Swoon. As this was a
time when every body had his own Life to think of, no
body minded me, or what was become of me; but another Man ftept up tothe Pump, and thrufting me afide
with his Foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead;
ad it was a great while before I came to my fclf.
We




;.. - -- 1-......-:-`:-~;a


t            %




,'N


>11, - - -


I1'.,,  \ \ \ M\IVI




We worked on, but the Water encreafing in the Hold
it was apparent that the Ship would founder; and thoe
the Storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not poffible lhe could fwimtill we might run into any Port, 6t
the Mafter continued firing Guns for Help; and a light
Ship who had rid it out juit a-head of us, ventured a
Boat out to help us. It was with the utmofft Hazard
the Boat came near us, but it was impoffible for us to
get on Board, or for the Boat to lie near the Ship fide%
till at lald the Men rowing very heartily, and venturing their Lives to fave ours, our Men caft them a Rope
over the Stern with a Buoy to it, and then vered it ouc
& great Length, which they after great Labour and Hazard took hold of, and we haul'd them clofe under our
Stern, and got all into their Boat. It was to no purpofe for them or us, after we were in the Boat, to think
of reaching to their own Ship; fo all agreed to let her
drive, and only to pull her in towards Shore as much
as we could, and our Mafter promired them, That if the
Boat was ftav'd upon Shore, he would make it good
to their Mafter: So partly rowing and partly driving;
our Boat went away to the Northward, (loping to'wards the Shore, almoft as far as Winterten-Nejs.
We were not much more than a Quarter of an Hour
out of our Ship, but we faw her fink: And then l underflood for the firft time, what was meant by a Ship
founderingin the Sea. 1 Muft acknowledge I had hard*
ly Eyes to look up, when the Sea-men told me the was
finking; for trom that Moment they rather put me
into the Boat, than that I might be faid to go in, m/
Heart was as it were dead within' me, partly with
Fright, partly with Horror of Mind, and the Thpughts
Of what was yet before me.
While we were in this Condition, the Men yet lalouring at the Oar to bring the Boat,near the Shore'
we could fee, (when our Boat Imlintihn the Waves,
w*wre abe able to fe the Shore) a gret      eople
intti   g along the Strand to aif:ifl*-u 'W:en  'e houild
ome near-   But we made but flow,;WaJi obrhiis the
Shore; nor were we able to reach'the Sljorel, rirlib
irg pat the Light-houfe at Winterton, the Shore fali1
t to the WetRward towards Cromer; and fo the Land
broke


1;




( I2 )
broke off a little the Violence of the Wind.; Here we
got in, and tho' not without much Difficulty, got all
&afe on Shore, and walk'd afterwards on Foot to 72rmouth, where, as unfortunate Men, we were ufed with
great Humanity, as well by the Magiltrates of the
Town, who ailign'd us good Quarters, as by particular Merchants and Owners of Ships; and had Money
given us fufficient to carry us either to London, or back
to Hall, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the Senfe to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone Home, I had been happy, and my
lather, an Emblem of our bleffed Saviour's Parable,
had even kill'd the fatted Calt for me; for hearing the
Ship I went away in, was caft away in Tarmouth Road,
it was a great while, before he had any Affurance that
I was not drown'd.
But my ill Fate pufli'd me on now, with an Obftinacy that nothing could refill; And tho' I had feveral
times loud Calls from my Reafon, and my more compofed Judgment to go home, ) et I had' no Power to
do it: I know not what to call this, nor will I urge,
that it is a, ecret over-ruling Decree, that hurries us on
to be the Inflrunments of our own Deftru&ion, even
tho' it be before us, and that we pufh upon it with our
Eyes open. Certainly, nothing but fome fuch decreed
unavoidable Mifery attendirig, and which it was impollible for me to efcape, cJuld have pufhli'd me forward
againil the calm Reafonings and Perfwafions of my molt
retired Thoughts, and againft two fuch vifible InftrucLions as I had met with in my firft Attempt.. My Comrade, who bad help'd to harden me be.
oreg and who was the Maifer's Son, was now leis forward than I. The firft time he fpoke to me after we
were at Tarmouth, which was not till two or three
Days; for we were feparated in the Town to feveral
iQuarters: I fay, the firfl time he he law me, it appear'd
his Tone was alter'd; and looking very melancholy, and
4haking his Head, ask'd me how I did: And telling his
lather who I was, and how I had come this Voyage
only for a Tryal, in order to go farther abroad; his
Father turning to me with a very grave and concerned
Toe; T, ung MAan, fays he, you ought never to go to Sea
\.. 'a                             a




(  I3 )
qny more; yououagbt to take this fir a plain and vfible
Token, that you are not to be a 6eafaring Man. Whys
$ir, laid 1, will you go to Sea no more? That s ansther Cafe, faid he, it is my Calling, and therefore my Duty; but aMyou made this Vyage for a Tryal, y.u lee wt/at
a itafie Heaven ha givenyou, of wbatyou are to ex.?eC if
you perfif; perhaps this is all beallen us on your Account,
like Jonah in the Ship cf Tarlhifh. Pray, continues he,
yvhat are you? And on what account did you go to Sea?
upon that I told him ibme of my Story; at the End of
which he burit out with a itrange kind of Paffion; \A hat
had I done! fays he, that iiuch an unhappy Wretch
ihould come into my Ship! I would not fet my Foot in
the fame Ship with thee again for a T houfand Pounds:
T his indeed was, as I faid, an Excurlion of his Spirits,
which were yet agitated by the Senfe of his Lofs, and
was farther than he could have Authority to go: However, he afterwards talk'd very gravely to me, exhorme to go back to my Father, and not tempt Providence
to myt uin; told me I might fee a vifible Hand of
Heaven againft me; Aqnd young Man, laid he, depend
upon it, ij you do not go back, whetre ever you go, you will
meet with nothing but DiaJters and Difappointments, till
your Father's Words are fulfilled upon you,
We parted toon after; for I made him little Anfwer,
and I law him no m)re; which way he went I know not:
As for mb having tome Money in my Pocket,I travelled
to London by Land; and there, as well as on the Road, had
many Struggles with my felt, what Courfe of Life I
flould take,and v hether I thould go Home, or go to Sea.
As to going Home, Shame oppofed the beft Motions
that offer'd to my Thoughts; and it. immediately. Ccurr'd to me how I fhould be laugh'd at among the
Neighbours, and fhould be afham'd to fee, not my Father
and Mother only, but even every Body elfe: From
whence I have fince often obferv'd how incongruous and
irrational the common Temper of Mankind is, efpecially' of Youth, to that Reafon which ought to guide
them in fuch Cafes, vii. That they are not afliam'd to
fin, and yet are afham'd to repent; not afham'd of the
Adion for which they ought juftly to be efteem'd Fools;
but are afhamed of the returning, whic. only can make
them eiteem'd wife Men.                        In




( 4)
tn this State of Life however I remain'd fome time;
uncertain what Meafures to take, and what Courfe of
Life to lead. An irrefiflible Relu&ance continued to
going Hote; and as I itay'd a while, the Remembrance
of the Diftrefs I had been in wore off; and as that abated, the little Motion I had in my Defires to a Return, wore off with it, till at laft I quite laid afide the
Thoughts of it, and look'd out for a Voyage.
That evil Influence which carried me firft away
from my Father's Houfe,which hurried me into the wild
atd indigefted Notion of raifing my Fortune; and that
imprefs'd thofe Conceits fo forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good Advice, and to the Entreaties, and
even the Commands of my Father; I fay, the fame
Influence, whatever it was, prefented the moft unfirtunate of all Enterprizes to my View; and I went on
board a Veffel bound to the Coaft of Africa, or, as our
Sailors valgarly call it, a Voyage to Guiney.
It was my great Misfortune, that in all there Adventures I did not fhip my felf as a Sailor; whereby,
tho' I might indeed have work'd a little harder than
ordinary, yet at the fame time I had learn'd the Duty
and Office of a Foremaft Man; and in time might
have qualified my felf for a Mate or Lieutenant, if not
for a- Mafter. But as it was always my Fate to chute
for the worfe, fo I did here; for having Money in my
Pocket, and good Cloaths upon my Back, I would alays go on board in the Habit ofa Gentleman; and fo t
neither had anyBtfinefs in the ShiP,or learn'd. to do'any.
- It was mnyLotfirft of all to fall into pretty good
Companyin iLordon, which does not always happen to
A )   fibh loofe and uinguided young Fellows as I then was;
~ the Devil-generally f   ot mihitting to lay fome Snare for.
thiem very early: Btt 'it was not fo with me; I firt fell
cqiinted with the Mafter of a Ship who had been on
CoAit off <iWiy, and who having had very good
Succefe thber,  as fefoled to go again i this Capt. tik;
king a   it*ic to my ConverIatioh,n wVhih hwas not
difagreeable at that time, hearing me fay I had a
tinindto fee the World, told nme, if I would go the
|Voyage iih hith, I ihould be at no Expence; I fi9uld
Ichis Mecfs-Mate and his Companion i and if I could
* - *r~




f                   (   5)
3rry any thing with me, I ihould have all the Advarti
age ofit that the Trade would admit; and perhaps t
*ight meet with fome Encouragement.
I embrac'd the Offer, and entring into a ftri& Friend% ip with this Captain, who was an honeft and plainealing Man, I went the Voyage with him, and carI ied a fmnall Adventure with me, which by the difinteefted Honefty of my Friend the Captain, I encreafed
Iery confiderably; for I carried about 40 1. in fuch
foys and Trifles as the Captain dire&fed me to buy.
rhis 4u 1. I had mufter'd together by the Affiflance of
fome of my Relations whom I correfponded with, and!ho, I believe, got my Father, or at leaft my Mother,
to contribute fo much as that, to my firft Adventure.
This was the only Voyage which I may fay was fuccefsful in all my Adventures, and which I owe to the
pntegrity and Honefly of my Friend the Captain; un-!der whom alfo I got a competent Knowledge ofthe
Mathematicks and the Rules of Navigation, learn'd how
to keep an account of the Ship's Courfe, take an Obfervation, and, in flort, to underftand fome things that: were needful to be underftood by a Sailor: For as he
took delight to introduce me, I took delight to learn;
Iand, in a Word, this Voyage made me both a Sailor
and a Merchant: For I brought home 5 Pound 9 Ounces of Gold-Duft for my Adventure, which yielded me
in London at my Return, almoit 3001. and this filled
me with thofe afpiring Thoughts which have fince fo
compleated my Ruin.
Yet even in this Voyage I had my Misfortunes too;
1 particularly that I was continually fick, being thrown
into a violent Calenture by the excefive Heat ef4he:      Climate; our principal Trading being upon the Coat,
jfrom the Lat. of i5 Degrees N. even to the Line it fel.
I was now fet up for a Guney Trader; and my Friend
to mygreat Misortune, dyiibg foon after his Arrival, j
refolved to go the fame Voyage again, and I embark'd
in the fame Vefiel with one who was his Mate in the
former Voyage and had now got the Command of the
Ship. This was the unhappieft Voyage that ever Man
made; fbr tho' I did not carry quite 10o 1. of my new
gain'dWcalthhfo that I had 2oo0leftanid ewich I lodg'd
with




( I6;)
with my Friend's Widow, who was very juft to me,
yet I fell into terrible Mistortunes in this Voyage; and
the firlt was this, vit. Our Ship making her Courie to.
wards the Canary Iflands, or rather between thole Hiands
and the African Shore, wasiurpriz'd in the Gray of the
vioining by a Mocrijb Rover of Saliee, who gave chace
to us with all the Sail ihe could make. We crowded
aloi as much Canvafs as our Yards would fpread, or our
Mails carry, to have got clear; but finding the Pirate
gain'd upon us, and would certainly come up with us in
a few Hours, we prepared to fight; our Ship having
12 Guns, and the Rogue iS. About three in the Atternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by miltake,
uit athwart our Quarter, inilead of atnwart our Stern,
ashe intended, we brought 8 of our Guns to bear on that
iide, and pour'd in a broadfide upon him, which made
him fheer off again, after returning our Fire, and pouring
in alib his inall Shot from near 20o Men which he had
on board. However, we had not a Man touch'd, all
9ur Men keeping clofe: He prepar'd to attack us again,
and we to detend our filves; but laying us on Board the
pext time upon our other Quarter, he entered 90 Men
upon our Decks, who immediately tell to cutting and
backing the Decks and Rigging. We ply'd them with
Small-hot, Half-: ikes, Powder-Chells, and fuch like,
iand clear'd our Deck of them twvice. However, to cut
ihort this melancholy part of our Story, our Ship be.
ing difabled, and three of our Men kill'd, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carry'd
all Prilbners into Sallee,.a Port belonging to the Moors.
The Ufage I had there was not fo dreadful as at firft
Ipprehelnded; nor was I carried up the Country to
the Emperor's Court, as the reft of our Men were, but
was kept by the Captain of the Rover, as his proper
Prize, and made his Slave, being young and nimble, and
fit for his Bufinefs. At this furprizing Change of my
Circumitances, from a Merchant to a Milerable Slave,
I was perfe&-ly overwhelmed; and now I look'd back
upon my Father's prophetick Difcourfe to me, that [
iiould be mifcrable, and have none to relieve me, which
I thought was now fo effe&tually brought to pafs, that [
could inot e worfe ithat now the Hand of Heaven had!  *  -ovr




7)
overtaken me, and I was undone without Redemptionm
But alas! this was but a Tafte of the Mifery I was
to go thro', as will appear in the Sequal of this Story.
As my new Patron, or Mafter, had taken me home
to this Houfe, fo I was in Hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to Sea again, believing that it
would fome time or other be his Fate to be taken by a
Spanijh or Portugal Man of War; and that then I fhould
be fet at Liberty. But this Hope of mine was foon ta.
kerl away; for when he went to Sea, he left meon Shore
to look after his little Garden, and do the common
Drudgery of Slaves about his Houfe; and when he came
home again from his Cruife, he ordered me to lie in the
Cabin, to look after the Ship.
Here I mediated nothing but my Eicape, and what
Method I might take to effect it; but found no way that
had the leaft Probability in it: Nothing prefented to
make the Suppofition of it rational; for I had no Body
to communicate it to, that would embark with me, no
Fellow Slave, no EngliJhman, fril/bnn, or Scctfman
there but my felt; ib that for two Years, tho' 1 often
pleafed my felf with the Imagination, yet I never had
the leatf encouraging 2rofpec of putting it in Pra6tice.
i      After about two.Years, an odd Circumfiance prelented it felf, which put 'the old Thoughts of making fome
attempt for my Liberty again in my Head: My Patron
lying at' home longer than ufual, without fitting out
his Ship, which, as I heard was for want of Money,
he ufed conftintly once or twice a Week, fometimes oftner, if the Weather was fair, to take the Ship's Pinnace,
and go out into the R1oad a filhing; and as he always
took me and a young Marefco with him to row the Boat~
we made him very merry, and I prov'd verydexterous in
catchingFifh; infbmch, that fometimes he would fend me
with a ~i[oor, one of his Kinfmen, and the Youth the,V!arejco, as they called him, to catch a Dith of FiIh for him.
It happened one time, that going afifhing with him in
calm lorning, a Fog rote lb thick, that tho' we were
not half a League from' the Shore, we loft fight of it;
ahnd rowing we knew hot whither or which way, we.
labour'd all Day, and all the next Night; and when the:
~lornin cae w    f   d w e d e had pu'd off to Sea, in



ftead of pulling in for the Shore; and that we were at
leait two Leagues from the Land: However, we got
well in again, tho' with a great deal of Labour, and
fome Danger; for the Wind began to blow pretty frefh in
the Motning; but particularly we were allvery hungry.
But our Patron warn'd by thisDifafter, refolved to
take moreCare of himfelfforthe future; and having lying
by him the Long-Boat of our Engljb Ship which he had
taken, he refolved he would not go a fihing any more
without a Compafs and iobme Provifion; fo he order'd
the Carpenter of his Ship, who alto was an Englifb
Slave, to build a little State-roomn or Cabin in the middie of the Long-Boat, like that of a Barge, with a Place
to ftand behind it to fleer,'and haul home the Main-iheet;
and room before for a hand or two to ftand and work
the Sails. She fail'd with that we call a Shoulder of
Mutton Sail; and the Boom gibed over the Top of the
Cabin, which lay very fnrg and low, and had in it,
toom for hiti to lie, with a Slave or two, and a Table
to eat on, with fnme frmall Lockers to put in fome Bottles of fuch Liquor as he thought fit to drink; particularly his Bread, Rice and Coffee.
We were frequently out with this Boat a fifhing; and
and as I was moft dextrous to catch PFih for him, he
never went without me. It happened oneday, that he
had appointed to go out in this Boat, either for Pleafre.or for Fifh, with two or three Moors of fime
Diffiniion, and for whom he had provided' extraordinarily; and hadl therefore fent on Board the Boat over
Night, a iarger Store of Provifions than ufual; aid
had ordered me to get ready three 'Putees with Powder and Shot, which Were on Board his Ship; for that
theydefign'd fome fpojt of Fowiing as wel as Fifini.
I got all things ready as he had dire&ed, and wiitel
the next Morning with the Boat waffed clean, her An
tlent and Pendants out, and every thing to accommodate his Guefis; when by and by my Patron came on
board alone, and told me his Guefts had put bffgoing,
upon fome BUfinefithat fell out, and order'd meIwith
tlu Man'and Boy, as ufual, to go out withthe Boat and
catceh tie the f Pie, for that his Friends were to fupat
HOiife;hi comtrxand    oted tooth   foott as I hadgot forme
Fus




( 19 )
ifbh, I fhould bring it home to his Houfe: All which
I prepared to do.
This Moment my former Notions of Deliverance
darted into my Thoughts; for now I found I was like
to have a little Ship at my Command; and my Ma.
fler being gone, I prepar'd to furnifli my felf, not for
fifhing Bufinefs, but for a Voyage; tho' I knew not,
neither did I fo much as confider whether I fhould fleer
for any where to get out of that place was my Way.
My firit Contrivance wasto make a Pretence to fpeak
to this Moor, to get fomething for our Subfillence on
board; for I told him we mufl not prefume to eat of
our Patron's Bread; he faid, that was true; fo he
brought a large Basket of Rusk, or Bisket, of their kind,
and three Jarrs with frefh Water into the Boat: I knew
where my Patron's Caie ofBottles flood, which it was
etident by the Make, were taken out of fome Englijf
Prize; and I convey'd them into the Boat while the
M;oor was on Shore, as if they had been there before,
for our Mafter: I convey'd allb a great Lump of BeesWax into the Boat, which weigh'd about half a Hundred Weight, with a parcel of Twine or Thread, a
Hatchet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all which were of
great ufe to us afterwards efpecially the Wax to make
Candles. Another Trick I try'd upon him, which he
innocently came into alfo: His Name waslfmaet,   whom
they call Mildy, or Moloy; fo I call'd to him, Moloy, faid
I, our Patron's Guns are all on Board the Boat, can
you not get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may
kill fome Alcamies (a Fowl like our Curlieus) for our
felves, for I know he keeps the Gunner's Stores -in the
Ship? Yes, fys he, I'll bring fome; accordingly he
brought a great Leather Pouch, which held about a
'omlud and a half of Powder, or rather more; and another with Shot, that had five or fix Pound, with
fome Bullets, and put all into the Boat: At the fame
Time I had found fome Powder of my Matter's in the
great Cabin, with which I fil'd one of the large Bottles in the Cafe, which was almott empty; pouring what
was in it into another: And thus furnifhed with every
thing needful, we fail'd out of the Port to fifli. The




( 20)
Caftle which is at the Entrance of the Port, knew
who we were, and took no Notice of us; and we
were not above a. Mile out of the Port, before we
'haul'd in our Sail, and fet us down to fiih. The
ind blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary to
my Defire; for had it blown Southerly, I had been
lure to have made the Coatl of Spain, and at leaft
reach'd to the Bay of Cadi; but my Kelolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that
horrid Place where I was, and leave the reft to Fate.
After we had fiIh'd fome time, and catch'd nothing,
for when I had Fiih on my Hook I would not pull
them up, that he might not iee them; I faid to the
AMoor, this will not do, our Mafter will not be thus
ferv'd, we muft ifand farther off: He thinking no
h]arm, agreed; and being in the Head of the Boat, fet
the Sails; and as I had the Helm, I run the Boat out
near a League farther, and tlen brought her too, as if
I would fiih.; when giving the Boy the Helm, I ftept
forward to where thev/re  r was, and making asifl floop'd
for fbmething behind him, I took him by Surprize
with my Arm under his Twilt, and tois'd him clear
over-board into the Sea; he rolt immediately, for he
tiam like a Cork, and call'd to me, begg'd to be taken
in, told me he would go all over the World with me:
He fwam fo ftrong after the Boat, that he would have
reach'd mie very quickly, there being but little Wind;
upon which I ftep'd into the Cabin, and fetching one
of the Fowling-Pieces, I prefented it at him, and told
him, I had done him no Hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would do him none: But faid I, you fwim well
enough to reach the Shore, and the Sea is calm, make
the belt of your Way to Shore, and I will do you no
Harm, but if you come near the Boat, I'll flhoot you
thro' the Head; for I am refolv'd to have my Liberty: So he turn'd himfelf about and fwam for the Shore,
and I make no doubt but he reach'd it with Eafe, for
he was an excellent Swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
'with me, and have drown'd the Boy, but there was no
venturing rt trit him: When he was gone, 1 turn'd? the Boy, who they calX'd Xury and laid to him, Xu*^              *                  ffrB




ry, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great
Man; but if you will not firoke your face to be
true to me, that is, frear by Mahomet and hbi lather's
Beard, I muft threw you into the Sea too; the Boy
finil'd in my Face, and fpoke fo innocently, that I could
not milruft him; and fwure to be faithful to me, and
go all over the World with me.
While I was in View of the Moor that was fwiming,
I flood out diretly to Sea, with the Boat, rather firetching to Windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Straits-mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their Wits muaf ha' been fuppos'd to do; ) for
who would ha' fiLppos'd we were lail'd on to the Southward to the truly Barbarian Coaft, where whole Nations of Negroes were fure to furround us with their
Canoes, and deitroy us; where we could never once go
on Shore, but we Ihould be devour'd by favage Beafts,
or more mercilefs Savagts of' human Kind.
But as loon as it grew dusk in the Evening, I changed my Courfe, and iteer'd dirctly South and by Eait,
bending my Courfe a little toward the Eall, that [
might keep in with the Shore; and having a fair frefh
Gale of Wind, and a fmooth quiet Sea, 1 made fuch
Sail, that I believe by the next Day at three a-Clock in
the Afternoon, when I firft made the Land, I could
not be lefs than l 5o Miles South of Sallee, quite beyond
the Emperor of Mlorocco's Dominions, or indeed of any
other King thereabouts tor we iaw no People.
Yet fuch was the Fright 1 had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful Apprehenfions I had of falling into
their Hands, that I would not flop, or go on Shore, or
come to an Anchor; the Wind continuing Fair, till I
had fail'd in that manner five Days: And then theWind.fifting to the Southward, I concluded alfo, that if any of our Veffels were in Chafe of me, they allb would
now give over; fo I ventur'd to make to the Coatl, and
came to an Anchor in the Mouth of a little River, I
knew not what, or where; neither what Latitude,
what Country, what Nation, or what River:! neither
faw, or defir'd to fee any People, the principal thing I
wanted was frefh Water. We came into this Creek in
the Evening refolving to fwim on Shore as loon as -it
was




(   2 )2
*as dark, and difcover the Country; but as Coon as it
was quite dark, we heard fuch dreadful Noiies of the
Barking, Roaring, and Howling of wild Creatures, of
we knew not what Kinds, that the poor Boy was ready to die with Fear, and begg'd of me not to go on Shore
till Day. Well, Xury, faid I, then I won't; but. it
may be we may fee Men by Day, who will be as bad
to us as thofe Lions; then we may give them the Jhoot
Gun, fays Xury, laughing, make them run wey; fuch
Englbfh Xury fpoke by converting among us Slaves.
However, I was glad to fee the Boy fo cheerful, and I
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron's Cafe of Bottles) to chear him up: After all, Xury's Advice was
good, and I took it, we drop'd our little Anchor, and
lay fill all Night; I fay flill, for we flept none; for
in two or three Hours we faw vafi great Creatures
we knew not what to call them) of many Sorts, came
down to the Sea-fhore, and run into the Water, wallowing and wafhing themfelves for the Pleafure of
cooling themfelves; and they made fuch hideous Howlings and Yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was I
too: But we were both worfe frighted when we heard
one mighty Creature come fwimming towards our Boat:
we could not fee him, but we might hear him by his
blowing, to be a monftrous huge and furious Beaf;
Xury faid it was a Lion, and it might be fo for ought
I know: Poor Xury -cried out to me to Weigh
the Anchor and row away; no lays I, Xury, we can
flip our Cable with a Buoy to it, and go to Sea, they
cannot- follow us far; I had no fooner faid to, but I
perceiv'd the Creature (whatever it was) within two
Oars length, which Something furprized me; however,
I immediately ftept to the Cabin-door, and taking up
my Gun, fir'd at him, upon which he innmmediately
turn'd about, and fwam towards the Shore again.
But it was not poflible to defcribe the horrible Noifes,
and hideous Cries and Howlings, that were raifed as
well upon the Edge of the Shore, as higher within the
Country, upon the Noife or Report of a Gun, a thing I
have Tome Reafon to believe thofe Creatures had never
ca4rdbeforc. This convinyee  me4 that there was no
going




( 23)
going on Shore for us in the Night upon that CoaRt
and how to venture on Shore in the Day, was another
Queftion too; for to have fallen into the Hands of any
of the Savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of Lions and Tigers; at leaft we were equally applehenfive of the Danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on Shore
fomewhere or other for Water, for we had not a Pint
left in the Boat; when or where to get to it, was the
Point: Xury faid, If I would let him go on Shore with
one of the Jarrs, he would find if there was any Water,
and bring fome to me. I ask'd him, why he would go?
why I Ihould not go, and he flay in theBoat? The
Boy anfwered with fo much Affetion, that made me
love him ever after. Says he, If wild Alans come, they
eat me, you go vy. Well, Xuy, faid I, we will both
go, and if the wild Mans come, we will kill them, they
Ihall eat neither of us; fo I gave Xury a Piece of Ruskbread to eat, and a Dram out of our Patron's Cafe of
Bottles, which I mentioned before, and we haul'd the
Boat in as near the Shore, as we thought was proper,
and waded on Shore; carrying nothing but our Arms,
and two Jarrs for Water.
I did not care to go out of fight of the Boat, fearing the coming of Canoes with Savages down the River:
But the Boy feeing a low Place, about a Yhile up the
Country, ambled to it, and by-and-by I faw himticome
running towards me: I thought he was purfued by fome
Savage, or frighted with fome Wild Bealf, and I run
forward towards him, to help him; but when I came
nearer to him, I faw fomething hanging over his Shoulders, which was a Creature that he had Ihot, like a Hare,
but different in Colour, and longer Legs; however, we'
were very glad of it, and it was very good Meat but the
great Joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good Water, and feen no wild Mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take fuch
Pains fr Water, for a little higher up the Creek where
we were, we found the Water frefh when the T'iide was
ouut which flows but a little Way up; fo we filled our
Jarrs and feae4 on the Hare we had killed, and prepar;c4




...              ( C24)
pared to go on our Wayi having feen no Foor-fleps of
any human Creature in that part of the Country.
As I had been one Voyage to this Coaft before, I
knew very Well that tle lflandsof the Canaries, and the
Cape de Yer'd Iflands alfo, lay not far off from the Coatt.
But as I had nolinfiruments to take an Obfervation to
know what Latitude we were in, and did not exaftly
know, or at leaff not remember, whatLatitude they were
in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to fland
off to Sea towards-them, otherwife I might now ealily
have found fome of there Iflands. But my Hope was
that if I flood along this Coatl till I came to that Part
where the Engzifjh traded, I ihould find tome of their
Veffels upon their utiial Defign of Trade, that would
relieve and take us in.
By the beff of my Calculation, that Place where I
now was, muft be that Country, which lying between
the Emperor of Mor(,cco's Dominions and the iegroes,
lies wafle and uninhabited, except by VW ild Beafs; the
Negroes having abandon'd it, and gone farther South,
for fear of the Aloors; and the imoors not thinking it
worth inhabiting, by Reafon of its Barranneis; and
indeed both forfaking it becaufe of the prodigious Numbers of Tygers, Lyons, Leopards, and other furious
Creatures which harbour there; lb that the Aicors uie
it fbr their Hunting only, where they go like an Armny,
two or three thoufand Men at a time; and indeed for
near an hundred Miles together upon this Coaft, we
faw nothing but a wafte uninhabited Country by Day,
and heard nothing but Howlings and Roaring of Wild
Beafts by Night.
Once or twice in the Day-time, I thought I flaw the
Pico of Tenerifl, being the high Top of the Mountain
Tenerife in the Canaries; and had a great- mind to venture out in Hopes of reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary Winds, the
Sea alfo going too high for my little Veffel; fo I Iefolv'd to purlue my fihl Defign, and keep along the
$hore.
t         ' Several times we were obliged to land for fielhWater
after we had left this Place; and once in particular, being early in the Morning, we came to an Anchor under




(2    )
a little Point of Land, which was pretty high, and the
Tide beginning to flow, we lay ftill to go farther in.
Xury, whole Eyes were more about him than it feems
mine were, calls foftly to me, and tells me, that we had
beil go farther off the Shore; for, fays lie, look yonder
lies a dreadful Molfter on the Side ok that Hillock, fatt
afleep. I look'd where he pointed, and faw a dreadful
Monfter indeed; for it was a terrible great Lion, that
lay on the fide of the Shore, under the Shade of a piece
of the Hill, that hung as it were a little ovez him. Xury,
fays I, you fhall go on Shore, and kill him: Xutry look'd
frighted, and laid, Me kill! he eat me at one Mcuth;
one Mouthful he meant; however,'I faid no more to the
Boy, but bad him be frill, and took our biggefi Gun,
which was almoft Musket-bore, and loaded it with a
good Charge of Powder, and with two Slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another Gun with two Bullets,
and the third ( for we had three Pieces) I loaded with
five finaller Bullets. I took the betl Aim I could with
the firtl Piece to hate fhot him into the Head; but he
lay fo with his Leg rais'd a little above his Nofe, that
the Slugs hit his Leg about the Knee, and broke the
Bone. He ifarted up growling at firft, but, finding his
Leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three
Legs, and gave the moft hideous Koar that ever I heard.
I was a little furprized, that I had not hit him on the
Head; however, I took up the iecond Piece immediately; and tho' he began to move off, fir'd again, and fhot
him into the Head, and had the Pleafure to fee him
drop, and making but little Noife, he lay ftruggling
for Life. Then Xury took Heart, and would have me
let him go on Shore. Well, go, faid I. So the Bq
jump'd into the Water, and taking the little Gun in one
Hand, fwam to Shore with the other Hand; and coming clofe to the Creature, put the Muzzle of the Piece
to his Ear, and fhot him into the Head again, which
difpatched him quite.
This was Game indeed to us, but this was no Food;
and I was very forry, to lofe three Charges of Powder
and Shot upon a Creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, Xury faid, he would have fome of him;
fo he comes on board, and ask'd me to give him the
C              Hatchet:




( (26)
Patchet. For what, Xury, faid I? Me cut of his Hetea,
iaid he. However, Xary could not cut off his Head4'
but he cut off a Foot, and brought it with him, and it
was a monftrous great one.
I bethought my felt however, that perhaps the Skin
of him nmight one way or other be of tome Value to us;
and 1 refolv'd to take off his Skin if'I could. So Xory
and I went to work with him; but Xaqy was much the
better Workman at it, for 1 knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed it took us up (both) the wholeDay, but at laft we
got off the Hide ol him, and fpreading it on the top of
our Cabin, the Sun effe&ually dried it in two Days
time, and it afterwards ferv'd me to lie upon.
After this Stop, we made on to the Southward continually for ten or twelve Days, living very fparingly on
our Provifions, which began to abate very much, and
going no oftner in to the Shore than we were obliged
to forfrefi Water. My Defign in this, was to make
the River Gambia or Senegall, that is to fay, any where
about the Cape e TVerd, where I was in hopes to meet
with fome European Ship, and if I did not, I knew not
what Courfe I had to take, but to feek for the Iflands, or
perifi there among the Negrces. I knew that all the
Ships from Eur(pe, which fiil'd either to the Coafi of
Guiney, or to Brafil, or to the Eafi Indies, made this Cape,
or thofe Iflands; and in a word, I put the whole of my
Fortune upon this tingle Point, either that I muRf meet
with bome Ship, or mutt perifh.
When I had purlued this Refoluion about ten Days
longer, as I have faid, I began to fee that the Land
was inhabited, and in two or three Places as we failed
l/ we faw People fiand upon the Shore to look at us;
we could alfo perceive they were quite black and flark
naked I was once inclin'd to have gone on Shore to
to them; but Xi.y was my better Counfellor, and faid
to me, No go, nogo: However, I haul'd in nearer the
Shore, that I might talk to them, and I found they run
along the Shore by me a good way. I obferv'd they
had no Weapons in their Hands, except one, who had
a long (lender Stick, which Xury faid was a Lance, and
that they would throw them a great way with good
Aim; ib I kept ata diflance, but talk'd with them by
Signs




( 27 )
Signs as well as I could, and particularly made Signs for
fomething to eat. They beckon'd to me to tfop my
Boat, and they would fetch me fome Meat. Upon this
I lower'd the Top of my Sail, and lay by; and two of
them run up into the Country, and in lets than half an
Hour came back and brought with them two Pieces of
dry Flefh, and fonle Corn, fuch as is the Produce of
their Country; but we neither knew what the one or
the other was: However, we were willing to accept it.
But how to come at it, was our next Dipure; for I wa*
not tfr venturing on Shore to them, and they were as
much afraid of us; but they took a fafe Way for us all,
for they brought it to the Shore and laid it down, and
went and flood a great way of, till we fetch'd it on
Board, and then came coloe to us again.
We made Signs of Thanks to them, for we bad nothing to make them amends: But an Opportunity offer'd that very Inftant, to oblige them wonderfully; for
while we were lying by the Shcre, came two mighty
Creatures, one purfiing the other ( as we took it) with
great Fury, from the Mountains towards the Sea; whe-'
ther it was the Male purfuing the Famale, or whether
they were in Sport, or in Rage, we could not tell any
more than we could tell whether it was ufual or flrange;
but I believe it was the latter, becaufe in the firil place
thofe ravenous Creatures feldom appear but in the
Night; and in the fecond place, we found the People
terribly frighted, efpecially the Women. The Man that
had the Lance or Dart, did not fly from them, but the
re' did; however, as the two Creatures ran direAly
into the Water, they did not feem to off-r to fall upon
the Negroes, but plung'd themielves into the Sea, ernd
fwam about as if they had come for their Diverfion;
at laft one of them began to come nearer our Boat than
at firfl I expe&ed, but I lay ready for him; for I had
loaded my Gun with all pofible Expedition, and bid
Xury load both the other: As foon as he came fairly
-within my Reach, I fir'd, and fhot him diretly into the
Head: Immediately he fhnk down into the Water, but
rofe inilantly, and plung'd up and down as if he w-s
ftruggling for Life; and fo indeed he was: He immediately made to the Shore, but between the Wound,
C 2                 wviici




(28) 8
which was his mortal Hurt, and the trangling of th
Water, he died juf before he reach'd the Shore.
It is impolilble to exprefs the Aftoniflment of thefe
poor Creatures, at the Noife and the Fire of my Gun;
lome of them were ready even to die for Fear, and
tell down as dead with the very Terror. But when
they law the Creature dead, and funk in the Wateiand that I made Signs to them to come to the Shore,
they took Heart, and came to the Shore, and began to
iearch fbr the Creature, I found him by his Blood
laining the Water, and by the help of a Rope,' which
I flung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragg'd him on Shore, and found that it was a mott
curious Leopard, fpotted and fine, to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their Hands with Admi.
ration, to think what it was hlad kill'd him with.
The other Creature, frighted with the Flath of Fire
and the Noife of the Gun, fwam to the Shore, and ran up
dire&lly to the Mountains, from whence they cane,
nor could I at that diltance know what it was. I found
quickly the Negroes were for eating the Flesh of this
Creature, fo I was willing to have them take it as a
Favour from me, which when I made Signs to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful
tor. Immediately they fell to work with him; and
tho' they had no Knife, yet with a flarpened piece of
W'ood, the) took off his Skin as readily, and much more
readily than we would have done with a Knife; they
offer'd me fome of the Flefh, which I declin'd, making as if I would give it them, but made Signs for the
Skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me
a great deal more of their Provifion, which tho' I did
not underftand, yet I accepted. Then I made Signs to
them for fome Water, and held out one of my Jars to
them, turning it Bottom upward, to fhew that it was
empty, and that I wanted to have it filled: They call'd
immediately to tome of their Friends. and there came
two Women and brought a great Veffel made of larth,
and burnt, as I fppofe, in the Sun; this they fet down
for me, as before, and I fent Xury on Shore with my
Jars, and filled them all three. The Women were as!iark naked as the Men.




)1V




I




( 29 )
I was now furnifh'd with Roots and Corn, fuclh s it
was, and Water, and leaving my friendly 2Ngr.es, I
made forward for about eleven Days more, without offering to go near the Shore, till I law the Land run out
a great length'into the Sea, at about the dillance of four
or five Leagues bet-(re me, and the Sea being very calm,
I kept a large Offing to make this Point; at length,
doubling the Point at about two Leagues from the Land,
I faw plainly Land on the other fide to Seaward; then
I concluded, as it was moft certain indeed, that this
was the Cape de Verd, and thofe the Iflands, called fromi
thence Cape de Verd Iflands. Iowever, they were at a
great Diftance, and I could not well tell what I had heft
to do; for if I fhould be taken with a Frefli of Wind,
I might neither reach one or other.
In this Dilemma, as I was verv penfive, I ifept into
the Cabin, and fat me down, Xisry having the Helrn
when on a fiudden the Boy cry'd out, AafteIe, Maffer, a
Sb/i with a Sail! and the foolilh Boy was friglhted our
of his Wits, thinking it muft needs be tome ot his NMafter's Ships fent to purfue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their Reach. I jump'd out of the
Cabin, and immediately faw not only the Ship, but
what the was, (viz) that it was a Portuguwej Ship, and as
I thought, was bound to the Coatl of G:iney for lNgroes:
But when I obftrv'd the Courfe fhe fteer'd, I was foon
convinc'd they were bound tome other Way, and did
not defign to come any nearer the Shore; upon which I
ltretch'd out to Sea as much as I could, refolving to
tpeak with them if poffible.
With all the Sail I could make, I found I fhould not
be able to come in their Way, but that they would lie
gone by, before I could make any Signal to them;
but after I had crowded to the utmolt, and began
to defpair, they it feems faw me by th= help of their
Perfpeeive Glaffes, and that it was fbme Eurrpean Boat,
which they fuppos'd muff belong to rome Ship that was
lbt; bothey fhortened Sail to let me come up. I wis
encouraged with this, and as I had my Patron's Antienton board, I made a Waft of it to them for a Signal
of Ditrefs, and fir'd a Gun, both which they faw, fbr
they told me they faw  the Smoke, tho' they did not
C 3                  hear




(30 )
hear the Gun; upon thefe Signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in about three Hours
time I came up with them.
I hey ask'd me what I was, in Portuguefe, and in SpaniJf, and in French, but I underflood none of them; but
at tait a ScLts Sailor who was on board, call'd to me, and
I aniwer'd him, and told him I was an Englilhman, that
had made my Eicape out of Slavery fronm the Moors at
Saie; then they bad me come on board, and very
kindly took me in, and all my Goods.
It was an iniexpreffible Joy to me, thatany one will believe;that I was thus deliver'd,as 1 efteem'd it, from fuch
ansmierable and almoit hopeles Condition as I was in
I immediately offer'd all I had to the Captain of the
Ship, as a Return fir my Deliverance; but he generoufly told me,he would take nothing from me, but that all I
had flould be deliver'd fafe to me whenI came to theBrafils; fbr, fays he, I have fav'd ycur Life on no other Terms ^
than as I iwuld be Oad to be javed my felf, and it may
ens time or other be n' Lct to be taken up in the fame Cndilion; beides, faid he, when I carryyou to the Brafils, Jo
great a way frlmn our own Country, i IJho uld take fromy u
what little you have, yoN will beflarved there, andatben 1 only
take away th.tLije 1 have given. iN, no, Seigniur Inglefe
fays he, AJir. Englilhman,3 I will carry you thither it
Cia, if.y and thofe i Tings will help you to buyyour Sabfiflencw
there, wand your P'alfage h me again.
As he was charitable in this Propofal, fo he was jui
in the Performance to a Tittle, for he order'd the beamen, that none ihculd offer to tcuch any thing I hlad;
then he took every thing into his own Pofiffion, and
gave me back an exat Inventory of them, that I might
have them again, evenfo much as my three EarthenJars.
As to my Boat, it was a very good one, and that he
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the Ship's
ttie, and ask'd me what 1 would have for it? I told him
he had been fo generous to me in every thing, that I
could not offtr to make any Price of the Boat, but left
it entirely to him; upon which he told me he would
give me a Note of his Hand to pay me So Pieces of
ight for it at Brafil, and when it came there, if any
one offer'd to give more, he would make it )p; he offer'd




( 31 )
fer'd me alfo o0 Pieces of Eight more for my Boy,Xa7y
which I was loth to take; not that I was not willing to
let the Captain have him, but I was very loth to lill
the poor Boy's Liberty, who had affliled me fo faithfilly in procuring my own. However, when I let him1
know my Reaoin, he own'd it to be juE, and offcr'd nme
this Medium, that he would give the Boy an Obligation
to fet him free in Io Years, if he turn'd Chritlan: Upon
this, and Xary faying he was willing to go to him, I let
the Captain have him.
We had a very good Voyage to the Brails, and arriv'd
in the Bay, de Tcdos los Santos, orAIl-Saints-Bay, in about
22 Days after. And now I was once more deliver'd from
the mollt miierable of all Conditions of Life, and what
to.do next with my felf, I was to confider.
The generous Treatment the Captain gave me, I can
never enough remember; he would take nothing of me
for my Paffage, gave me 20 Ducats for the Leopard's
Skin, and 40 for the Lion's Skin which I had in the Boat,
and cautfed every Thing I had in the Ship to be pun&ually deliver'd me, and what I was willing to fell, he
bought; fuch as the Cafe of Bottles, two of my Guns,and
a Piece of the Lump of Bees. -wax, for I had made Candies of the reft; in a word, I made about 220 Pieces of'
Eight of all my Cargo, and with this Stock I went on
Sbore in the Brafils.
I had not been long here, but beingrecommended to
the Houfe of a good honeft Man like himfelf, who ha&
an Ingenio, as they call it; that is, a Plantation and x
Sugar-Houfe, 1 liv'd with him fome time, and acquain.
ted my felifby that Means with the Manner of their
Planting and mnaking of Sugar; and leeing how well thPlanters liv'd, and how  they grew rich fiuddainly; I
refolv'd, if I could get Licence to fettle there, I woulc
turn Planter among them reiblving in the mean time to
find out tome Way to get my Money which I had leftia London, remitted to me. To this purpofe, getting,
a kind of a Letter of Naturalization, I purchafed as much
Land that was Uncur'd, as my Money would reach,
a=d form'd a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement,.
and fuch a one as might be fuitable to the Stock which I
rroposd to my fel to receive from E^gla^d.
C 4.                   [




(3     )
I had a Neighbour, a PortugueTe of Lisbon, but born of
EngliJh Parerts, who ieName was Wells; and in much fuch
Circumltances as I was: 1 call him Neighbour, becaufe
his i'lantation lay next to mine, and we went on very
fbciably together. My Stock was but low as well as his;
and we rather planted for Food, than any thing elfe,
fbr about two Years. However, we began to increafe,
and our Land began to come into Order; fo that the
third Year we planted fome Tobacco, and made each of
us a large Piece of Ground ready for planting Canes in
the Year to comne; but vwe both wanted Help; and now
I fourd mGre than bebfre, I had done wrong in parting
tith my Boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great Wonder: I had no Remedy but to go on:
I was gotten into an Employment quite remote to my
Genius, and direaly contrary to the Life I delighted in,
and for which I forbook my Father's Houfe, and broke
thro' all his good Advice; nay, I was coming intothe
very middle Station, or upper Degree of low Life,
which my Father advifed me to before, and which, if
I retblved to go on with, I might as well have flaid at
home, and never have fatigued my felfil the World as I
had done; and I ufed often to fay to my felt, I could
have done this as well in Eng tand among my Friends, as
have gone 5ooo Miles of to do it among Strangers and
Savages in a Wildernefs, and at fuch a Diflance, as never to hear from any-Part of the World that had the leafl
Knowledge of me.
In this manner I ufed to look upon my Condition
with the utmoft Regret. I had no Body to converfe
with but now and then this Neighbour; no Work to
beiWe, but by the Labour of my Hands; and I ufed
to fay, I liv'd juf like a Man cafl away upon Tome defo.
late Ifland, that had no Body there but himfelf. But
how jut has it been, and how fhould all Men reflet,
that, when the) compare their prefent Conditions with
others that are worfe, Heaven may oblige them to make
the Exchange, and be convinced of their former Felicity, by their Experience: I fay, how iulf has it been, that
the truly folitary Life I refle&ed on in an Ifland of meer
Defolation ihould be my Lot, who had fo often unjuftly
comr.




(33 )
compared it with the Life which I then led, in which
had I continued, I had in all probability been exceeding
profperous and rich.
I was in fome Degree fettled in my Mearures for carry.
ing on the Plantation, before my kind Friend the Captain of the Ship, that took me up at Sea, went back;
for the Ship remained there in providing her Loading,
and preparing for herVoyage, near three Months; when
telling him what little Stock I had left behind me in
London, he gave me this fiiendly and fincere Advice:
Seignior Inglefe, fays he, (for fo he always call'd me,) if
you will give me Letters, and a Procuration here in form
to me with Orders to the Perfon who has your Money in London, to fend your Effecls to Lisbon, to fuch
Perfons as I fhall dire&, and in fuch Goods as are proper for this Country, I will bring you the Produce of
them, God willing, at my Return; but fince human
Affairs are all fubje& to Changes and Difafters, I
would have you give Orders but for Ioo 1. Sterl. which
you fay is half your Stock, and let the hazard be run for
the firfl; fo that if it come fafe, you may order the reft
the fame way; and if it mifcarry, you may have the o.
ther half to have Recourfe to for your Supply.
This was fo wholfome Advice, and look'd fo friendly,
that I could not but be convinc'd it was the belt Courfe
I could take; fo I accordingly prepared Letters to the
Gentlewomen with whom I had left my Money, and a
Procuration to the Portuquefe Captain, as he defired.
I wrote the EngliJh Captain's Widow a full Account
ofall my Adventures, my Slavery, Efcape, and how I
had met with the Portugal Captain at Sea, the Humanity of his Behaviour, and in what Condition I.vas
now in, with all other neceflary Directions for my Supply; and when this honeft Capt. came to Lisbon, he found
means by fome oftheEnglijb Merchants there, to fend over not the Order only, but a full Account of my Story
to a Merchant at London, who prefented it effe6tually to
her; whereupon ihe not only delivered the Money, buc
out of her own Pocket fent the Porttual Captain a very
handibme Prefent for his Humanity and Charity to me.
The Merchant in London vefled this ico 1. in En.fih
Goodsfuch as the Captain bad writen for; ent them direAqlv




( 34)
relly to him at Lisbcn, and he brought them all fafe to
moe to the Brafils; among which, without my Dire&ion
(for I was too young in my Bufinels to think of thein)
he had taken care to have all Sorts of Tools, Iron-work,
and Uteniils necelahry for my Plantation, and which
were of great U fe to me.
When this Cargo arriv'd, I thought my Fortune made,
for I was furpriz'd with thejoy of it; and my goodSteward the Captain had laid out the 51. which my Friend
had fent him for a Prefent for himfelf, to purchafe, and
bring me over a Servant under Bond for fix Years Service, and would nor accept of any Confideration, except
a little Tobacco, which I would have him accept, being
of nmy own Produce.
Neither was this all; but my Goods being all Engli;h
Manufad&ures, fuch as Cloth, Stuff, Bays, and Things
particularly valuable and defirable in the Country, I
fiund means to fell them to a very great Advantage; fo
that I may fay, I had more than fbur times the Value
of my firft Cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor Neigbour, I mean in the Advancement of my Plantation; for the firft Thing I did, I bought me a Negroe Slave, and an European Servant alfo; I mean another befides that which the Captain brought me fiom
Lisbon.
But as abufed Profperity is oftentimes made tte very
Means of our greateft Adverfity, fo was it with me. f
wenton the next Year with great Succefs in my Plantation: I raifed o5 great Rolls of Tobacco on my own
Ground more than I had difpofed of for Neceffaries among my Neighbours; and thefe 50 Rolls being each
of above a Ioo lb. Wt. were well cur'd and laid by, aainrt the Retutrn of the Fleet trom Lisbon. And now
increafing in Bufinefs and Wealth, my Head began to he
full of ProjeA s and Undertakings beyond my Reach;
fuch as are in deed often the Ruin of the the beft Heads
in Bufinels.
Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I had
xoom for all the happy Things to have yet befallen me,
for which my Father fo earnefiy recommended a quiet
retired Life, and which he had fo fenfibly defcribed.the niddle Station of Life to be- full of; but other
Thing




r( 3y
Things attended me, and I was fill to be the wilful Agent ot':ll my own I\iferies; and particularly to encreafe
niy Fault, and double theReflecions upon my, felf which
in my future Sorrows I Ihould have Leifure to make:
All thefeMifcarriages were procured by my apparent obflinate adhering to my foolifh Inclination of wandring.
abroad, and purfuing that Inclination, in Contradition,
to the cleareft Views of doing my ielf good in a fair and
plain Purfuit of thofe ProfpeAs and thofe clMafures of
Life, which Nature and Providence concurred to prelent me with, and to make my Duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my
Parents, fo I could not be content now, but I muft go
and leave the happyViewI had,of being a rich and a thriving Man in my new Plantation, only to purfue a rali.,
and immoderate Defire of rifing ftfter than the Nature
of the Things admitted; and thus I call my felfdown
again into the deepefl Gulph of human Mifery that ever
INean fell into, or perhaps could be confilent with Life
and a State of Health in the World.
To come then by juft Degrees to the Particulars of
this Part of my Story; You may iutpofe, that having
now lived almofl four Years in the Brafils, and beginning to thrive and profper very well upon my Plantation, I had not only learned the Language, but had con -
tra&ed Acquaintance and Friendfhip among my Fellow- 'lanters, as well as among the Merchants at St,.
Salvad.re, which was our Port; and that in my Di-.
c.burfe among them, I had frequently given them an account of my two Voyages to the Coaft of Guiney, the
manner of Trading with the Negroes there, and how eafy.
it was to parchafe upon the Coafl, for Trfles (fiach as
Beads, Tys, Knives, Sciffars, Hatcbsts, Bits of trafs,
and the like) not only Gold-Duft, Guiney-Grains, Ele.pbhnts-Teeth, 5c. but Negroes for the Service of the
Brafils, in great Numbers.
They liftened always very attentively to my Ditcour-.
fes on thefe Heads, but elpecially to that part which related to the buying Negroes, which was a Trade at thattime not only not far entered into, but as far as it was,
had been carried on by the Affiento's, or Permition, of
the lings of Saini a.in  Portugal and engrofs'd i n tte.




( 36)
Publick Stock; fo that few Negroes were brought, and
thofe exceffive dear.
It happen'd, being in Company one Day with fome
Merchants and Planters ofmyAquaintance,and talking of
thofe things very earneflly,three of them came to me the
next Morning, and told me they had been mufing very
muh upon what I had difcourlfd of with them the lalf
Niight, and they came to make a fecret Propofal to me,
and after enjoining me Secrecy, they told me that they
bad a mind to fit out a Ship to go to Guinev that they
had all Plantations as well as I, and were ftraitned for
nothing fo muzh as Servants; that as it was a Trade
that could not publickly fell the Negroes when they
came home, fo they defired to make but one Voyage,
to bring the Negroes on Shore privately, and divide
them among their own Plantations; and in a Word, the
Queflion was, whether I would go their Super-Cargo in
the Ship, to manage the Trading Part upon the Coaft
-of Guiney? And they off'r'd me that 1 Ihould have my
equal Share of the Negroes, without providing any Part
of the Stock.
This was a fair Propofal, it mull be confefs'd, had it
been made to any one that had not had a Settlement and
I lantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair
way of coming to be very confiderable, and with a good
Sto k upon it. But for me that was thus eflablilh'd,
and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun, for
three or four Years more, and to have fent for the other
oo I. from Enland, and who in that Time, and with
that little Addition, could fcarce have fail'd of being
worth; or 400o 1. Sterling, and that encreafing too;
for me to think of fu-h a Voyage, was the molt prepofterois'thing that ever Man in fich Circumflances could.
be guilty of.
But I that was born to be my own Deftroyer, could
no more refilf the Offer than I could reftrain my firft
rambling Deiigns, when my Father's good Counfel was
was loft upon me. In a Word, I told them I would.
go with all my Heart, it they would undertake to look
after my Plantation in my Abfence, and wctld difpofe
6fit to fuhh as T liould dire&t, if I mifcarried. This,
they all engaged to do, and entered into Writings, or
'                              Cove.




( 37 )
Covenants, to do fo; and I made a formal Will, difpofing of my Plantation and Effe&s, in cafe of my Death,
making the Captain of the Ship that had fav'd my Life,
as before, my univerfal Heir, but obliging him to difpofe of my Effects as I had dire&ed in my Will, one
half of the Produce being to himfelf, and the other to
be fhipp'd to England.
In fhort, I took all pofllble Caution to preferve my
EffeAs, and to keep up my Plantation; had I ufed half
as much Prudence to have look'd into my own Interefl,
and have made a Judgment of what I ought to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from fo profperous an Undertaking, leaving all the
the probable Views of a thriving Circumftance, and
gone upon a Voyage to Sea, attended with all its common Hazards; to fay nothing of the Reafons I had to
expe& particular Misfortunes to my felf.
But I was hurried on, and obey'd blindly the Dictates of my Fancy rather than my Reafon: And accordingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Cargo furniih'd,
and all things done as by Agreement, by my Partners in
the Voyage, I went on board in an evil Hour again,
the ift ot Sept. I659, being the fame Day eight Years
that I went from my Father and Mother at Ha1,? in order to a& the Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to
my own Intereft.
Our Ship was about 120 Tun Burthen, carried 6
Guns and 14 Men, betides the Mafter, his Boy, and.
my telf; we had on board no large Cargo of Goods,
except of izuh Toys as were fit for our Trade with the
Negroes, fuch as Beads, Bits of Glafs, Shells, and odd
Trifles, efpecially little Looking-Glaffes, Knives, Sciffars, Hatchets, and the like.
The fame Day I went on board, we fet Sail, flanding
away to the Northward upon our own Coaft, with
defign to firetch over for the African Coaft, When
they came into about lo or 12 Degrees of NorthernLititube, which it feems was the manner of their Courfe
iniholfe Days: We had very good Weather, only exceffive hot, all the Way upon our own Coafl, till we came
to the Height of Cape St. Aguflitno, from whenze keeping farther off at Sea, we lofl fight of Land, and fteer'a
i",. 1  '                          *




( 38)
atif we were bound forthe Ifle Fernandde Niron~a, holding our CGurfe N. E. by N. and leaving thofe talcs on
the Eaft. In this Courftl we pall the Line in about I 2
Days time, and were by cur Sail Oblervation in 7 Degrees 22 kwin. Northern Latitude, when a violent l7Turnado r Hurricane, took us quite cut of our Knowledge
it began frmnl the south-Eail, came abcut to the NorLhWeft, and then fettled into the North Eaft, firm
whence it blew in fitch a terrible manner, that for i 2Days
tog ther we could do nothing but drive; and fzudding -
way before it, let it carry us wherever Fate and the
Fury otthe Winds dire&fed.; and during thele 12 Days, I
need not iay, that I expeted every Day to be fwallowed.
up, nor did any in the Ship expe& to lave their Lives..
In this Diilrefs we had, belideis the Terror of the
Storm, one of cur len died of the Calenture, and one
Man and the Boy walh'd over-board. About the I2th
Day the Weather abating a little, the Mailer made an
Obfervation as well as he could, and found that he was.
in about I Degrees North Latitude, but that he was
22 Degrees of Longitude Difference Well from Cape St.
AuguJIino, fo that he found he was gotten upon the Coafl
of Guiana, or the North Part of Brafil, beyond the
River AMmaznes, toward that of the River Orooncque,
commonly called the Great River i and now he began
to confult with me what Courfe he Ihould take, for the
Ship was leaky, and very much difabled, and he was
for going direaly back to the Coaft of Brafil.
I was pofitively againtl that, and looking over the
Charts of the Sea-Coall of America with him, we concludedt there was no inhabited Country for us to have
reccnrfe to, till we came within the Circle of the Caribbee Iflanls, and therefore refolved to fland away forBarbadoes, which by keeping off at Sea, to avoid the Indraught ofthe Bay or Gulph of Mexico, we might eafily
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen Days Sail; whereas, we could not peffibly make our Voyage to the Coafi
of Africa, without Come Afilfance both to our Ship and
to our felves.
With this Defign we chang'd our Comrfc, and fteer'&
away N. W. by W. in order to reach Come of our En1IJ Iflands, where I hoped. for Relief: but our Voyage
was




( 39 )
was otherwife determined, for being in the Latitude of
12 Deg. i S. Min. a iecond Storm came upon us, which
carry'd us away with the fame Inmptuofity Weftward,
and drove us fo out of the very way of all human Commerce, that had all our Lives been faved, as to the Sea,
we were rather in danger of being devoured by ravages,
than ever returning to our own Country.
In this Dilfrels, the Wind fill blowing very hard,
one of our Mlen, early one Morning crN'd out, )Land
and we had no iboner run out of the Cabin to look out,
in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the World we were,
but the Ship ftruck upon a Sand, ard in a Moment, her
Motion being bo ftopp'd, the Sea broke over her in luch
a manner, that we expeaed we ihould all have perifn'd
immediately; and we were even driven into our
clofe Quarters, to fhelter us from the very Foam and
Sprye of the Sea.
It is not eafy for any one, who has not been in the
like Condition, to defcribe or conceive the Confternation of Men in fuch Circumflances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what Land it was we were
driven, whether an Ifland or the Main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the Rage of the Wind
was ftill great, tho' rather lets than at firft, we could
not fo much as hope to have the Ship hold many Minutes without breaking in Pieces, unlefs the Winds by
a kind of Miracle fhould turn immediately about. In
a Word, we fat looking one upon another, and expecting Death every'Moment, and every In a&ing accordingly, as preparing, for another World; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: That
which was our prefent Comfort, and all the Coujfsrt
we had, was, that contrary to our Expe&ation the Ship
did not break yet, and that the Mailer faid the Wind
began to abate.
Now tho' we thought that the Wind did a little
abate, yet the Ship having thus fruck upon the Sand,
and flicking too fail for us to expef her getting off,
we were in a dreadful Condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of faving our Lives as well as
we could. We had a Boat at our Stern, juft before the
Storm, bat ihe was firit tav'd by dathing againft the
Ship's




( 40)
Ship's Rudder, and in the next Place fle broke away;
and either funk or was driven oft to Sea, fo there was
no Hope from her: We had another Boat on board,
but how to get her off into the Sea, was a doubtful
thing; however, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the Ship would break in pieces every
Minute; and forie told us, fhe was actually broken
already.
In this Diftrefs the Mate of our Veffel lays hold of
the Boat, and with the help of the refi of the Men, they
got her flung over the Ship's fide, and getting all into:   r, let go, and committed our felves, being Eleven in
umber, to God's Mercy, and the wild Sea; for tho'
the Storm was abated confiderably, yet the Sea went
dread;ul high upon the Shore, and might well be call'd
Den -tild Zee, as the Dutch call the Sea in a Storm.
And now our Cafe was very difmnal indeed; for we
all faw plainly, that the Sea went fo high, that the
Boat could not live, and that we fhould be inevitably
drowned. As to making Sail, we had none, nor, if we
had, could we have done any thing with it; fo we
work'd at the Oar towards the Land, tho' with heavy
"earts, like Men going to Execution; for we all knew,
that when the Boat came nearer the Shore, the would
be dafh'd in a thoufand Pieces by the Breach of the Sea.
However, we committed our Souls to God in the moff
earneft manner, and the Wind driving us towards the
Shore, we haften'd our Deftrution with our own Hands,
pulling as well as we could towards Land.
What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, whether
Steep or Shoal, we knew not; the only Hope that could
rationally give us the leaft Shadow of Expetation, was,
if 'We might happen into tome Bay or Gulph, or the
Mouth offbmne River, where by great Chance we might
have run our Boat in, or got under the Lee of the Land,
and perhaps made finooth Water. But there was nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the Shore, the Land look'd more frightful than
the Sea.
After we had row'd, or rather driven about a
League and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging Wave,
Mountain-like, came rowling a-ftern ofus, and plainly
bid




( 4' )
bid us expe& the Coup de Grace. In a word, it took us
with fuch a Fury, that it overfet the Boat at once, and
feparating us as well from the Boat, as from one another, gave us not time hardly to fay, O God! for we
were all fwallowed up in a Moment.
Nothing can defcribe the Confufion of Thought
which I felt when I ifnk into the Water; for tho' I
fwam very well, yet I could not deliver nly felf from
the Waves fo as to draw Breath, till that Wave having driven me, or rather carried me a vait Way on towards the Shore, and having fpent it felf, went back,
and left me upon the Land almoft dry, but half dead
with the Water I took in: I had fo much Prefence of
k ind, as well as Breath left, that feeing my felf nearer
the main Land than I expe&ed, I got upon my Feet,
and endeavoured to make on towards the Land as fafi
as I could, before another Wave fhould return, and take
me up again. But 1 foon found it was impoffible to
avoid it; for I faw the Sea come after me as high as a
great Hill, and as furious as an Enemy, which I had
no Means or Strength to contend with; my Bufinefs
was to hold my Breath, and raife my felt upon the
Water, if I could, and fo by fvimming to preferve my
Breathing, and pilot my flel towards the Shore, if poffible; my greateft Concern now being, that the Sea, as
it would carry nme a great Way towards the Shore when
it came on, might not carry me back again with it
when it gave back towards the Sea.
The Wave that came upon me again, buried me at
once 20 or 30 Foot deep in its own Body; and I could
feel my felf carried with a mighty Force and Swiftnefs
towards the Shore a very great Way; but 1 held my
Breath, and affifled my felf to fwim ifill forward witl?
all my Might. I was ready to burfl with holdirg my
Breath, whean, as I felt my felf rifing up, fo, to my
immediate Relief; I found my Head and Hands fhoot
out above the Surface of the Water; and tho' it was
not two Seconds of Time that I could keep my felf fo,
yet it reliev'd me greatly, gave me Breath and new
Courage. I was covered again with Water a good
while, but not fo long but I held it out; and finding the
Water had fpent it felf, and began to return, I firuck
forward




(42 )
forward againft the Return of the Waves, and felt
Ground again with nmy Feet. I flood ftill a few Moments to recover Breath, and till the Water went from
me, and then took to my Heels, and run with what
Strength I had farther towards the Shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the Fury of the Sea, which
came pouring in after me again, and twice more I was.
lifted up by the Waves, and carried forwards as before,
the Shore being very flat.
The laft time of thefe two had well near been fatal
to me; for the Sea having hurried me along as before,
landed me, or rather daih'd me againft a piece of a
Rock, and that with fuch Force, as it left me fenfelefs,
and indeed helplefs, as to my own Deliverance; for the
Blow taking my Side and Breafl, beat the Breath as.
it were quite out of my Body; and had it returned again immediately, I mutl have been firangled in the
Water; but I recover'd a little before the Return of the
Waves; and feeing I fhould be cover'd again with theWater, I refolv'd to hold fall by a piece of the Rock,
and fo to hold my Breath, if poflible, till the Wave
went back. Now as the Waves were not fo high as at
firft, being near Land, I held my Hold, till the Wave,
abatedc, and then fetch'd another Run, which brought
me fo near the Shore, that the next Wave, though it
went over me, yet did not fo fwallow me up, as to carry me away; and t'e next Run f took, I got to the
main Land, where, to my great Comfort, I clambertd
up the Clifts of the Shore, and fat me down upon the
Grafs, free from Danger, and quite out of the Reach
of the Water.
I was now landed, and fafe on Shore, and began to
look up and thank God, that my Life was fav'd in a
Cafe wherein there was fome Minutes before fcarce any
room to hope. I believe it is impoffible to expresl to,
the Life, what the Extafies and Tranfports of the Soul
are, when it is fo faved, as I may fay, out of the very
Grave; and I do not wonder now at that Cuftom, vit.
That when a Malefa&or, who has the Halter about his;
Neck, is tied up. and jufi going to be turn'd off, and,
has a Reprieve brought to him; I fay, I do not wont
der that they bring a Surgeon with it, to let-himlBloo&
that:




( 43)
that very Moment they tell him of it, that the Strprize may not drive the Animal Spirits from the Hearty
and overwhelm him:
For fudrden Yys, like Griefs, confound at firfl.
I walk'd about on the Shore, lifting up my Halds,
and my whole Being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the
Contemplation of my Deliverance, making a thoufarnd
Geftures and Motions, which I cannot deicribe, reflec.
ting upon all my Comrades that were drown'd, and
that there fiould not he one Soul ibv'd but my felf;
for as for them, I never faw them afterwards, or any
Sign of them, except three of their Hats, one Cap, and
two Shoes, that were not Fellows.
I caft my Eyes to the ftranded Veffel, when the
Breach and Froth of the Sea being fo big, I could hardly fee it, it lay fo far off, and confidered, Lord! how
was it poffible [ could get on Shore!
After I had folac'd my Mind with the comfortable
part of my Condition, I began to look round me, to
lee what kind of Place I was in, and what was next to
be done; and I loon found my Comforts abate, and that,
in a Word, I had a dreadful Deliverance; for I was
wet. had no Cloaths to ihitt me, nor any thing either
to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did 1 fee any
Profpe& before me, but that of perifhing with Hunger,.
or being devour'd by wild Beafts And that which was
particularly affli&ing to me, was, that I had no Weapon
either to hunt and kill any Creature for my Suflenanee,
or to defend my felf againft any other Creature that
might defire to kill me for theirs: In a Word, I had
nothing about me but a Knife, a Tobacco-pipe, anAi,
little Tobacco in a Box: This was all my Provifion, and,
this threw me into terrible Agonies of Mind, that for a
while I run about like a Mad-man. Night coming upon me, I began with a heavy Heart to confider what
would be my Lot, if there were any ravenous Beafts in
that Country, feeing at Night they always come abroad
for their Prey.
All the Remedy that offer'd to my Thoughts at that
time, was, to get up into a thick buhy Tree like a Fir,
but.




(44)
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I refolv'd
to fit all Night, and confider the next Day what Death
I Ihould die, for as yet I faw no Profpe& of Life. I
walk'd about a Furlong from the Shore, to fee if I could
-find any frefli Water to drink, which I did, to my
great Joy; and having drank, and put a little Tobacco
in my Mouth to prevent Hunger, I went to the Tree,
and getting up into it, endeavour'd to place my felfl'o,
as that if I Ihould feep, I might not fall; and having
cut me a fhort Stick, like a Truncheon, for my Defence, I took up my Lodging, and having been exceffively fatigu'd, 1 fell fail aileep, and flept as comfor.
tably, as I believe few could t ave done in my Condition, and found my felfthe moft re!rieihed with it, that
I think 1 ever was on fiiuh an Occafion.
When I wak'd, it was broad Day, the Weather clear,
and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did not rage
and fwell as before: But that which furpriz'd me
moft, was, that the Ship was lifted off in the Night
from the Sand where fhe lay, by the Swelling of the
Tide, and was driven up almofi as far as the Rock,
which I firft mention'd, where I had been fo bruis'd by
the dafling me againft it; this being within about
a Mile from the Shore where I was, and the -hip feeining to fland upright iill, I wiih'd my felf on board,
that, at leaft, I might fave fome neceirary Things for
my Ufe.
W hen I came down from my Apartment in the
Tree, I look'd about me again, and the firft thing I
found, was the Boat, which lay as the VMind and the
Sea had tofs'd her  up un the O and, about two Miles
on my Right Hand: I walk'd as far as I could upon
tlkeShore to have got to her, but found a Neck or Inlet
of Water between ne and the Boat, which was about
halfa Mile broad; fo I came back for the prefent, being more intent upon getting at the Ship, where I hop'd
to find fomething for my prefent Subfiilence.
A little after Noon I found the Sea very calm, and
the I ide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come within
a Quarter of a Mile of the Ship: And here I found a
fre h renewing of my Grief; for I faw evidently, that
if we had kept on board, we had been all fafe, that is
to




(45 )


to fay, we had all got fafe on Shore, and I had not
been fo miferable as to be left entirely deftitute of all
Comfort and Company, as I now was: This forced
Tears from my Eyes again, but as there was little Relief in that, I refolv'd, it'poflible, to get to the Ship;
fo I pull'd off my Cloaths, for the Weather was hot
to Extremity, and took the Water; but when I came to
the Ship, my Difficulty was fill greater to know how
to get on board, for as fie lay a-ground, and high out of
the Water, there was nothing within my Reach to lay? hold of; I fwam round her twice, and the fecond time
I epy'd a fmall piece of Rope, which I wonder'd I did
not lee at firft, hang down by the Fore-Chains to low,
as with great Difficulty I got hold of it, and by the
Help ofthat Rope, got up into the Fore-caftle of the
Ship. Here I found that the Ship was bulg'd, and
had a great deal of Water in her Hold, but that file lay
fb on the Side of a Bank of hard Sand, or rather Earth,
that her Stern lay lifted up upon the Bank, a'nd herHead
low almoft to the Water; by this means all her Q.(arter
Nwas free, and all that was in that Part was dry; for
you miay be fure my Work was to fearch and to fee
what was fpoil'd, and what was free; and firfl I found,
that all the Ship's Provilions were dry, and untouch'd
by the Water, and being very well difpoied to eat, I
wvent to the Bread-room and filPd my Pockets with
Bisket, and eat it as I went about other things, for I
had no Time to lofe. I alfo found liome Rum in the
great Cabin, of which I took a large Dram, and which
1 had indeed need enough of, to fpirit me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a Boat to furnifli my felf with many things which I forefaw ould
be very neceffary to me.
It was in vain to fit ftill and wvifh for what was not to
be had, and this Extremity rcuz'd my Application.
We had feveral fpare Yards, and two or three large
Sparrs of Wood, and a fpare Top-Mafi or two in the
Ship; I refolv'd to fall to work with thefe, and flung
as many of them over-board as I could manage for their
Weight, tying every one with a Rope that they might
not drive away; when this was done, I went down the
$ Ship's Side, and palling them  to me, I ty'd four of
i                                            them




(46)
them faft togefher at both Ends as well as I could, in
the Form of a Raft, and laying two or three fhort Piecos of'.lank upon them crofs-Vv ays; I fo,und I could
mvalk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great Weight, the Pieces being too light, fo I went
to work, and with the Carpenter's Saw I cut a fpare
Top malt into three Lengths, and added them to my
Raft, with a great deal of Labcur and Pains; but the
Hope of turnilhing ny felf with Neceflaries, encouraged me to go beyond what I ihould have been able
to have done upon another Occafion.
My Raft was now ftrong enough to bear any reafonable Weight; my next Care was what to load it with,
and how to preferve what I laid upon it from the Surf
of the Sea; but 1 was not long conlidering this; I firfl
laid all the Planks or Boards upon it that I could get,
and having confider'd well what I molt wanted, i
firft got three of the Seamens Chelts, which I had broken open and empty'd, and lower'd them  down upon
my Raft; the firif of thefe I fiIl'd with Provifions, vi.
Bread, Rice, three Dutch Cheefcs, five Pieces of' dry'd
Goats-Fleth, which we liv'd much upon, and a little
Remainder of Eurcpean Corn, which had been laid by
for fome Fowls which we brought to Sea with us, 'but
the Fowls were kill'd; there had been fome Barley and
Wheat together, but, to my great Difappointment, I
found afterwards that the Rats had eaten or fpoil'd it
all. As for Liquors, I found feveral Cafis of Bottles
belonging to our Skipper, in which were obme Cordial
Waters, and in all about five or fii Gallons of Rack;
thefe I ffow'd by themfelves, there bAing no need to put
tliem into the Chelf, nor any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the Tide began to flow, tho'
very calm, and I had the Mortification to fee my Coat,
Shirt, and Waftecoat, which I had left on Shore upon
the Sand, fwim away; as for my Breeches, which were
only Linnen and open-kneed, I fwanm on board in
them and my Stockings: However, this put me upon
rummaging for Cloaths, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for prefent U le,
for I had other Things which my Eye was more
'apon; as firfi Tools to work with on $hore, and it
was




( 47 )
was after long fearching that I found out the Carpen;
ter's Cheft, which was indeed a very uieful Prize to
me, and much more valuable tlhan a Ship-loading of,Gold would have been  at that dime. I got it down
to my Rart, even whole as it was, without loling Time
to look into it, for i knew in general what it contain'd.
My next Care was for Ibme Ammunition and Arms;
there were two very good Fowling-t ieces in tlie great
Cabin, and two Piltols; thefe I Iecur'd firlt, with ibme
Powder-Horns, and a finall Bag of Shot, and two old
rutty Swords: I knew there were three Barrels of Powder in the Ship, but knew not where our Gunner had
flow'd themn, but with much Search I found them, two
of them dry and gcod, the third had taken Water;
thofe two 1 got to my Raft, with the Arms: And now
I thought my felt pretty well freighted, and began to
thirk how I ihould get to Shore with them, having neither Sail, Oar, or Rudder, and the leati Cap full of
VWind would have overfet all nmy Navigation.
I had three Encouragements. I. A imooth calmSea.
2. The Tide riling and letting into the Shore. 3. What
little Wind there was, blew me towards ths Land; and
thus, having found two or three broken Oars belonging
to the Boat, and befides the Tools which were in the
Chefl, I found two Saws, an Axe, and a Hammer, and
with this Cargo I put to Sea: For a Mile or thereabouts, my Ratt went very well, only that I found it
drive a little diitant frcm-the Place where I had landed
before, by which I perceiv'd that there was fome Indraught of the Water, and confequently I hop ' to find
fome Creek cr River there, which I might make uti of
as a Port to get to Land with my Cargo.
As I imagin'd, fo it was; there appear'd before me
a little opening of the Land, and I found a ftrong Current of the Tide fet into it, fo I guided my Raft as
well as I could to keep in the Middle of the Stream:
But here I had like to have fuffcr'd a fecond Shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have broke
my Heart; for knowing nothing of the Coaft, my Raft
run a-ground at one End of it upon a Shoal, and not being a-ground at the other End, it Wasted but a little
that all my Cargo had flipp'd off towards that End that
w~as




(48 )
was afloat, and Co fallen into the Water: I did my ut;.moft by fetting my Back againft the Chefis, to keep
them in their Places, but could not thruft off the Ratt
with all my Strength; neither durft I ftir from the Poflure I was in, but holding up the Chefts with all my
Might, flood in that manner near half an Hour, in
which time the rifing of the Water brought me a little
more upon a Level; and a little after, the Water till
riling, my Raft floated again, and I thruft her off with
the Oar I had, into the Channel, and then driving up
higher, I at length found my felf in the Mouth of a
little River, with Land on both Sides, and a ftrong Current or Tide running up. I look'd on both Sides for a
proper Place to get to Shore, for I was not willing to
be driven too high up the River, hoping in time to
fee fome Ship at Sea, and therefore refolv'd to place my
felf as near the Coaft as I could.
At length I fpy'd a little Cove on the right Shore of
the Creek, to which with great Pain and Difficulty I
guided my Raft, and at lait got fo near, as that, reaching Ground with my Oar, I could thruft her direlly
in; but here I had like to have dipt all my Cargo in
the Sea again; for that Shore lying pretty fteep, that
is to fay, floping, there was no Place to land, but
where one End of the Float, if it run on Shore, would
lie fo high, and the other fink lower as before, that it
would endanger my Cargo again: All that I could
do, was to wait till the Tide was at the higheft, keeping the Raft with my Oar, like an Anchor to hold the
Side of it faft to the Shore, near a flat Piece of Ground,
which I expeted the Water would flow over; and fo
it did: As foon as I found Water enough, (for my
Raft drew about a Foot of Water) I thruil her upon
hat flat Piece of Ground, and there faften'd, or
muoor'd her, by fticking my two broken Oars into the
Ground; one on oneSide near one End, and one on the
other Side near the other End; and thus I lay till the
Water ebb'd away, and left my Raft and all my Cargo
fife on Shore.
My next Work was to view the Country, and feek
a proper Place for my Habitation, and where to ftow
my Goods, to fecure them from whatever miglt happen,


I




B~VI




pi


-
-




-4-m-M


4 WI           out: ox




( 49 )
pen. Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the
Continent, or on an Ifland; whether inhabited, or not
inhabited; whether in Danger of Wild Bealts or not:
There was a Hill not above a Mile froin me, which
rofe up very fteep and high, and which feem'd to overtop tbme other Hills which lay as in a Ridge from it
Northward: I took out one of the Fowling-:'ieces,
and one of the Pifols, and an Horn of Powder, and
thus arm'd I travelled for Difcovery up to the Top of
that Hill, where after I had with great Labour and
Difficulty got up, I immediately faw my Fate to my
great Alfliifion, (vit.) that I was in an Illand environ'd
every way with the Sea, no Land to he feen, except
fome Rocks which lay a great way off, and two filall
Iflands lefs than this, which lay about three Leagues to
the Weft.
I found alfo that the fland I was in, was barren, and,
as I iaw good realbn to believe, uninhabited, except by
Wild Beaits, of whom however I law none yet; i fawr
abundance of Fowls, but knew not their Kinds, neither
when I kill'd them, could I tell what was fit for Food,
and what not. At my coming back, I ihot at a great
Bird which I faw fitting upon a Tree on the Side of a
large Wood; I believe it was the firft Gun that had
been fir'd there fince the Creation of the World. I had
no fooner fir'd, but from all the Parts of the Wood
there arofe an innumerable Number of Fowls of many
forts, making a confus'd Screaming, and crying, every
one according to his urual Note; but not one of then
of any Kind that I knew; As for that Creature I'kill'd,
I took it to be a kind of a Hawk, its Colour and Beak
resembling it, but it had no Talons or Claws more that.common, its Flelh was Carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this Difcovery, I came back to my
Raft, and fell to work to bring my Cargo on Shore,
wvhich took me up the reft of that Day; what to do
with my flf at Night, I knew not, nor indeed where
to reft; for I was afraid to lie down on the Grourd,:
not knowing but tome wild Beaft might devour me,
tho', as I afterwards found, there was reaIly no need
for thofe Fears.
D                  How




( 5o )
However, as well as I could, I barricado'l my felf
round with the Chefts and Boards that I had brought
on Shore, and made a kind of a Hutt for that Night's
Lodging; as for Food, I yet faw not which way to
fupply my felf, except that I had feen two or three
Creatures like Hares, run out of the Wood where I thot
the Fowl.
I now   began to confider, that I might yet get
a great many things out of the Ship, which would be
ulfiul to rte, and particularly ionme of the Riggiig
and Sails, and xuch other things as might come to hand,
and I refblv'd to make another Voyage on Board the
Veffel, if pofible;   and as I knew that the firft Storm
that blew muft necefTarily break her all in Pieces, I refolv'd to fet all other things apart, till I got every thing
out of the Ship that I could get; then I call'd a Council, that is to fay, in my Thoughts, whether I fhould
take back the Raft, but this appear'd imprafticable; fo
I refolv'd to go as before, when the Tide was down, and
I did fo, only that I ftripp'd before I went from my
Hurt, having nothing on but a checquer'd Shirt, a
pair of Linnen Drawers, and a pair of' Pumps on imy
Feet.
I got on Board the Ship as before, and prepar'd a fe.
cond Raft, and having had Experience of the firft, I
neither made this fo unweildly, nor loaded it fo hard,
but yet I brbught away feveral things very ufefTal to me
as firft, in the Carpenter's Storesl found twyo or three
Bags full of Nails and Spikes, a great Skrew-Jack, a
dozen or two of Hatchets, and above all, that moft ufefl thing calld a Grindftone; all thefe I fecur'd, togethr with leveral things belonging to the Gunner, particularly two or three'Iron Crowes, and two Barrels of
Mulqitet-Biullers, feven Mufquets, and another FowlingPiece with fome fmall Quantity of Powder more; a
1hrge Bag till offmall n Shot, and a great Roll of Sheet
ead; but' this     s af   a heavy, I could nothoift it up
to get ir over tile 5eiAps fide,
fefides thefe things, I took all the Men's CloatishtER
couild 'find, anita'ipare Fore-rtp-fall, Harimock, ani
frome Bedding; and with this I loaded my fcond Rafat;mz




( $1 )
and brought them alfo all fafe on Shore to my very
great Comfort.
I was under fome Apprehenfions during my Abfence
from the Land, that at lead my Provifions might be
devour'd on Shore; but when I cameback, I found no
Sign of any Vifitor, only there fat a Creature like a
wild Cat upon one of the Chefts, which when I came
towards it, ran away to a little Ditfance, and then flood
ftill; the fat very compos'd, and unconcern'd, and look'd
fall in my Face, as it the had a mind:o be acquainted
with me: I prefented my Gun at her, but as fhe did not
underfland it, the was perfe&ly unconcerned at it, nor
did the offer to fir away; upon which I tofi'd her a bit
of Bisket, tho' by the way I was not very free of it, for
my Store was not great. However, I fpar'd her a bit
I fay, and Ifhe went to it, fiell'd of it, and eat it, and.
look'd ( as pleas'd) for more; but I thank'd her, and
could {pare no more, fo the march'd off.
Having got my fecond Cargo on Shore, ( tho' I was
fain to open the Barrels of Powder, and bring them by
Parcels, for they were too heavy, being large Casks) I
went to work to make me a little Tent with the Sail
and fome Poles which I cut for that Purpofe; and into
this Tent I. brought every Thing that I knew would
fpoil, either with Rain, oi Sun, and I piled all the
empty Chefts and Casks up in a Circle round the Tent,
to fortify it from any fudden Attempt, either from
Man or Beaft.
When I had done this, I block'd up the Door of the
Tent with fome Boards within, and an empty Cheft fet
up an End without, and fpreading one of the Beds upqo
the Ground, laying my two FPiftols juft at my Hea d,
and my Gun at Length by me, I went to bed for the
fird time, and flept very quietly all Night: I was
very weary and heavy, for the Night before I had flept
little, and had labour'd very hard all Day, as well to
fetch thofe Things from the Ship, as to get them on
Shore.
IU had the biggeft Magazine ot all Kinds now that
ever were laid up, I believe, for one Man; but I was
not fatisfied ftill; for while rte Ship fat upright in tat
P3ofttre, I thought I ought to get every thing out of
D 2                   her




( 52 )
her that I could; fo every day at low Water I went-on
board, and brought away fomething or other: But particularly the third time I went, I brought away as
nmuch of the Rigging as I could, as alib all the fhmall
Ropes and Rope-twine I could get, with a piece of fpare
Canvas, which was to mend the Sails upon occafion,
<and the Barrel of wet Gun-powder: In a Word, I
brought away all the Sails firft and laft, only that I
was rain to cut them in Pieces, and bring as much at a
time as I could; for they were no more ufefiil to me
for Sails, but as meer Canvas only.
But that which comforted me more fill, was, that at
laft of all, after I had made five or fix iuch Voyages
as there, and thought I had nothing more to expef
from the Ship, that was worth my medling with; I fay,
after all this, I found a great Hogfhead of Bread,
three large Runlets of Rum or Spirits, a Box of fine Sugar, and a Barrel of fine Flower; this was furprizing
to me, becaufe I had given over expeting any more
Provifions, except what was fpoil'd by the Water. I
foon emptied the Hogfhead of that Bread, and wrapt
it up, Parcel by Parcel, in Pieces of the Sails, which I,c:, out; and in a Word, I got all this fafe on Shore
alAtho' at feveral times.'
The next Day I made another Voyage; and now
having plunder'd the Ship of what was portable, and
it to hand out, I began with the Cables; and cutting
the great Cable into Pieces, fuch as I could move, I
got two Cables and a Haulfer on Shore, with all the
Iron-work I could get; and having cut down the Spric-,il-yard, and the Mifen-yard, and every thing I could:   make a large Raft, I loaded it a ith all tlofe heavy
Coods, and came away: But my good Luck began now
to leave me; for this Raft was fo unweildy, and lb overladen, that after I was enter'd the little Cove, where
I had larded the reft of my Goods; not being able to
guide it fo handily as I did the other, it overlet, and
threw me and all my Cargo into the Water: As for
my felf it was no great Harm, for I was near the Shore;
but as to my Cargo, it was great part of it loft, efpecially the Iron, which I expeted would have been of
great U fe to me: However, when the Tide was out,
I




( 53 )
I got nmof of the Pieces of Cable afhore, and fonle of
the Iron, tho' with infinite Labour, for I was tain to
dip for it into the Water, a Work which fatigu'd me
very much; after this, I went every Day on Board,
and brought away what I could get.
I had been now 13 Days on Shore, and had been T t
times on Board the Ship; in which time I had brought
away all, that one pair of Hands could well be fupp(s'd
capable to bring, tho' I believe verily, had the calm
'Weather held, 1 Ihould have brought away the whole
Ship, Piece by Piece: But preparing the I"th time to
go on Board, I found the Wind began to rife; however, at low Water I went on Board, and tho' I thought
I had rummaged the Cabin fo efi&efuaily, as that nothing
more could be found, yet I difcovered a Locker with
Drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
Razors, and one pair of large Sciffars, with  ten
or a dozen good Knives and Forks; in another I
found about thirty fix pounds Value in Money, fome
Efrtcpean Coin, fome Brafil, fome Pieces of Eight, fonme
Gold, fome cilver.
I finil'd to my felfat the fight of this Money. 0
Drug! /aid I alcud, what art thou good for?  Thetu
art not worth to me, no not the taking off ofthe Ground;
one of thofe Knives is worth all this Heap; I have no
manner of ufe for thee, e'en remain where thou art,
and go to the Bottom as a Creature whofe Life is not
worth faving: However, upon fecond Thoughts, I
took it away, and wrapping all this in a Piece ot Canvas, I began to think of making another Raft; but
while I was preparing this, I fbund the Sky over-caflf
and the Wind began to rife, and in a quarter of an Hour
it blew a frefhl Gale from the Shore; it prefently occur'd to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a
Raft, with the Wind off Shore, and that it was my llufinefs to be gone before the Tide ofFlood began, othcrwife I might not be able to reacl the Shore at all: Ac..cordingly I let my felf down into-the Water, and fwam
crofs the Channel, which lay between the Ship and the
Sands, and even that with Dflficultj enough, partly
with the weight of the things I had about me, and
paroly the Roughnefj of the V ater, for the Wind rof:
D1 3                  very




( 54 )
very haflily, and before it was quite high Water, it
blew a Storm.
But I was gotten home to my little Tent, where I
lay with all my Wealth about me very fecure: It blew
very hard-all that Night, and in the Morning when I
I)ok'd out, behold no more Ship was to be feei. I was
a little furpriz'd, but recover'd my felf with this fatisfaStory Refleciol, vit. That I had loft no Time, nor
abated any Diligence to get every thing out of her that
could be ufefti to me, and that indeed there was little
left iln her that I was able to bring away, if I had had
mnorelimne: I now gave over any more Thoughts of
the Ship, or of any thing out of her, except what might
drive 6n Shore from her Wreck, as-indeed divers Pieces
oi her afterwards did; but thofe things were of f'mall
4fe to me.
My Thoughts were now wholly employ'd about fecuring tmyielt againft either Savages, if any fhould appear
or wild Beafts, if any were in the Ifland; and I had
many Thoughts of the Method how to do this, and what
kind of Dwelling to make; whether I lhould make me
a Cave in the Earth, or a Tent upon the Earth: And,
in fhort, 1 refolv'd upon both; the Manner and Delcription of which it may not be improper to give an
Accounnt of.
I foon foind the Place I was in was not for my Seilement, particubrly becaufe it was upon a low moorilh Ground near the Sea, and I believed would not be
whulfome, and more particularly becaufe there was no
Water near it; fo I refolv'd to find a more healthy and
more convenient:Spct of Ground.
I Contluated leveral things in my Situation, which I
iund wculd le proper for le; firft, Health, and freth
Water as 1 jul now mentionr'; ilindly., Shelter from
the Heat o tlhe Sun thirdly, Security from ravenous
Creatures, whether Man or Beaft  fourthly, a View
to the Sea, that if God fent any Ship in Sight, I might
not lofe any Advantage for my Deliverance, for which
I was not willing to banifh my ExpeRation yet.
In fearch of a Place proper for this, I found a litte?lain on the fide of' a rifinglHill, whofe Form towards
his little Plain,  wa   as a  teep -as a Hut e-&i,
Io




( 55) 3
fe that nothing could come down upon me from thI
Top; on the fide of this Rock there was a hollow Place
worn a little way in, like the Entrance or Door of a
Cave, but there was not really any Cave or Way into
the Rock at all.
On the Flat of the Green, jufl before this hollow
Place, I refolved to pitch my Tent. This Plain was
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a Green before the Door, and at the
End of it defcended irregularly every way down into
the low Grounds by the Sea-fide,. It was on the N. N.
W. fide of the Hill, fo that it was flhelter'd from the
Heat every Day, till it came to a W. and by S. Sun, or
thereabouts, which in thofe Countries is near the flt.
ting.
Before I Let up my Tent, I drew a half Circle before
the hollow Place, which took in about ten Yards in its
Semi-diameter, from the Rock, and twenty Yards in its
Diameter, from its Beginning and Ending.
In this half Circle I pitch'd two Rows of ftrong
Stakes, driving them into the Ground till they flood
very firm like Piles, the biggefl End being cut of the
Ground about five Foot and a half; and lharp n'd on
theTop; the two Rows did not ftand above fix Inches
from one another.
Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had cut in the
Ship,and'laid them in Rows upon one anotherwithin the
Circle between thefe two Rows of Stakes, up to theTop,
placing other Stakes in the infide, leaning againfl them,
about two Foot anda half high, like a Spur toa P'olit
and this Fence vas fr frong, that neither Man or Bearf
could get into it or over it. This coil me a great deal
of Time and Labour, efpecially to cut the Piles in tI
Woods, ring-them to the Place, and drive them into
the Earth.
The Entrance into thisPlace I made to be, not by a
Door, but, by a fhort Ladder, to go over the Top,
which Lad4er, when I was in, I lifted over after me,
and rfI was compleatly fenzed in, and fortified, as I
thouit, fromalt the World, and Qonfcquently flept
ferei   the Jight, which oiherwile I could not have
d0le dtho' as it appear'd afterward, there was no need of
D 4                                all




(56)
a11 this Caution from the Enemies I apprehended Dan.
ger from.
Into this Fence, or Fortrefs, with infinite Labour,
I carry'd all my Riches, all my Provifions, Ammunition
and ~tores, ot which you have the Account above; and
I made me a large Tent alto, to preferve me fromthe Rains, that in one Part of the Year are very violent
there, I made double, vit. one fmaller Tent within,
and on, larger Tent above it, and cover'd the uppermiol part of it with a large Tarpaulin which I had
iav'd among the Sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the Bed- which
I had brought on Shore, but in a Hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belong'd to the Mate of the
Ship.
into this Tent I brought all my Provifions, and every
Thing that would 1poil by the Wet; and having thus
enclos'd all my Goods, I made up the Entrance, which
till now I had left open, and fo pafs'd and repafs'd, as
I faid, by a fhort Ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my Way into the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and Stones that
I dug down, out thro' my Tent, I laid them up within
my Fence in the Nature of a Terrace, fb-that it rais'd
the Ground within about a Foot and a Half'; and thus
I made a Cave juft behind my Tent, which ferv'd me
like a Cellar to my Houfe.
It cofi me much Labour, and many Days, before all
thefe Things were brought to Perfetion, and therefore
rlmuft go back to rome other Things which took up
~0me of my Thoughts. At the fame Time it happen'd
afr i: had laid my Scheme for the fetting up my Tent,
and making the Cave, that a Storm of Rain fallingfrom
a thick dark Cloud, a fudden Flafl of Lightning happen'd, and after that, a great Clap of Thunder, as is
naturally the Effet of it: I was not fo much furpriz'd
ioith the Lightning, as I was with a Thought which
darted into my Miind as fwift as the Lightning it felf:
0 my Powder! my very Heart funk within me, when
1l thought, that at one Blaft all. my Powder might be
deftroy'd j on which, not my Defence only, but the, 0 5  ".  1  v  s  ".  '  '  -  1  pro '




57 )
providing me Fool, as I thought, entirely depended;
I was nothing near fo anxious about mny own Danger,
tho' had the Powder took Fire, I had never known who
had hurt me.
Such Impieffion did this make upon me, that after
the Storm was over, I laid afide all my Works, my
Building and Fortifying. and apply'd my felf to make
Bags and Boxes to feparate the Powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a Parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it might not all take Fire at once, and
to keep it fo apart, that it fliould not be pollible to make
one part fire another. I finifhed this Work in about a
Fortnight, and I think my Powder, which in all was
about 14o lb. WItt. was divided in no lefs than a hundred
Parcels. As to the Barrel that had been wet, I did not
apprehend any Danger from that, fo I plac'd it in my
new Cave, which in my Fancy I call'd my Kitchin;
and the reft I hid up and down in Holes among the
Rocks, fo that no Wet might come to it, marking very
carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of Time while this was doing, I went
out at leaft once every Day with my Gun, as well to divert my felf, as to fee if I could kill any thing fit for
Food, a nd as niear as I could, to acquaint my felt with
what the Ifland produc'd. The firil Time I went out,
I prefently difcover'd that there were Goats in the Ifland, which was a great SatisfaAion to me; but then it
was attended with this Misfortune to me, vi.. That
they were fo fhy, o fiubtle, and fo fwift of Foot, that
it was the difficalteft Thirng in the World to come at
them: But I was not difoourag'd at this, not doubting.
but I might now and then hoot one, as itoion happened;
for after 1 had found their Haunts a little, I laid wait
in this Manner for them: I obferved, if they faw
me in t   Valleys, tho' they were upon the Rocks,
they wvotr run away as in a terrible Frght;, but
if they  fiefe feedining the Valleys, and I was upon the Rocks, they took no Notice of me from whence
[ coicluded, that by the Pofitiou of their Opticksf their
Sigh w   ifo direted, downward, that they did not rear
dily fee Objes: that were above them:. So afterwards I: '.....      S       *        tooke




( 5S )
took this Method, I always climb'd the Rocks firf, t6
gt ab-ve them, and then had frequently a fair Mark.
4lhe firfi Shot I made among thefe Creatures, I kill'd
a She-Goat which had a litte Kid by her, which fhe
gave Suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the
Old one fell, the Kid flood Rlock ftill by her till I came
and took her up; and not only fo, but when I carried
the Old one with me upon my Shoulders, the Kid follow'd me quite to my Enclolfre; upon which I laid
down the Damtand took the Kid in my Arms, and carried it over my Pale, in Hopes to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat, fo I was forc'd to kill it and eat
it my felf; thefe two filpply'd me with Fleih a great
while, for I eat fparingly; and fav'd my Provifions (my
Bread eplecially) as much as paffibly I could.
Having now fix'd my Habitation, I found it abfolutely neceffary to provide a Place to make a Fire in, and
Fuel to burn  and what I did for that, as alfo how I
enlarg'd my Cave, and what Conveniencies I made, I
fliall give a full Account of'in its Place: But I muft firft
give ibomelittle ACcouint of my felf, and of my Thcughts
about Living, which it may well be ftppos'd were not
a few.
I had a difial Profpe& of my Condition; for as I
nas not caft away upon that Ifland without being driten, as is faid, by a violent Storm quite out of the Courfe
ffur intendedVoyage, and a great Way, viw. ome Hun.
dreds ofLeagues out of the ordinary Courfe of the Trade
f Mankind, I 'had great Reafon to confider it as a Determination ofHeaven, that in this defilate Place, and
in this defolate Manner lIhould end my Life: the Tears
wwild run plentifully down my 'Face when I made thefe
Refle&ions, and fometimes I would expoftulate with
my felf, WhyProvidence fhould thus compleatlyruin its
Creatures, and render them fo abfolutely miferable, fo
without Help, abaiddned, and fo entirely deprefs'd that
it could lhardly be rational to be thankful for fuch a
Life?
But fomething always return'd fwift upon me to cheek
thefe T houghts, and to reprove me; and particularly
6ne Day walking with my Gunn in myHanmd by the Seae, I was very penfive upon the Subjec of my prefent
CoAn




C~onditioin, when Reafon, as~ t-were ptInepolltg
with me to'ther Way, thus: Well, You are in a del'olate
Conditi~on 'tis~true  utpray remebr whrIr the
iet of' you? Did not you comec Eleven of' you into the
Boat, where are the Ten? Why were not thty fav'd, and
youloft? W hy are you fingled out? Is it better to be here
or there? And then t pointed to the Sea. All Evils
are be confider'd with thle Good that is in them, and
with whatt worfe atten-ded them.
Then it-,occured to me agvain, bow wvell I was furnifhi'd foir ty Subfialance, and what 'would have been
mpy ~Cafe, ifit had notbhappen'd, Whicb W4as an Hundred
fr-uf-and to Qne,~ that the,Ship floated from the Place
were tiri fHIe firuck, and w'as driven fo near to the~
shurethat I had time to get all thefe things out of her?
What would have been my Cafe, if I had been to heave
ky'd in the Condition inw wich  at firfk came on Shore,
without $eceIlarigs fieor N eceffaries to fupply
and procure them? Particularly faid I aloud,, (tho' to
my   i)   htoldI'adoewtotaGnwthout Amsznumion without' Any Tools, to make any thing,
or to work with? WNithout, Cloatlis, Bedding,.a Tent,
or any manner' of Covering3? And that now I bad all
thefe to a fullicient Qpantit-y, and wvas'in a fair way t
provide my felf in fuch a manner, as to, live~ without
qin whep~ny Ammu-nition. was fpe-nt,fp that I hdr
a, tdlerahle Yiow of; ftbfiffitg without any Want;as lqng
as Ilivkt;- for4 I onfider'd frqm, the 1eginrnin  how
woWprpvi4e~ fprthe A~piderits that i~ghit ha~ppon, nan
foir tzhe iime hA~t was qoO~  ve  only,4~wr 'my
Ammunitfionhuld be fpent, b4ut ev, afte  yLell
or strengih I'hould decay.
I,~onfef's I had tiotthen entertaini'dany Notion ofliy
Ani~tmieop jh4ng,.delro'y'd,'at one Blatll, I meant 4y
*row  ~erhing lVown up- byight~ipg-, -and this mad' the
_Thoughtsjoffit fo) iiiprizirgtoewhnt lihen  and
ndoW bing -to, enter "into a -,41*1ncholy Rlto
of  See f    in Life,, fuich perhap aswsnever
hNieard of' in thbe World beore, I f4all take it fro mits, Re
ginning,,and continue it in~ its Ot-der. -,It was by my
'ACCOUnt), tbe3qth 9f -$ePtcML~r, when,;JA 4ie MOMn~




( 6o)
as nbovefaid, I' firlfet Foot upon this lorrid Iftand;
when theS Sun being, to us, in its Autumnal Equinox,
was allmot jull over my Head, for I reckon'd my felt;
by Obfervation, to be in the Latitude of 9 Degrees, 22
Minutes North of the Line,
After I had been there about Ten or Twelve Days,
it came intainy Thoughts, that I Ihould lote my Reckoning ofTTime for want of Books, and Pen and Ink,
and Ihould even forget the Sabbath Days frointhe wori
king Days: But to prevent this, I cut it with my Knife
upon a large Poll, in Capital Letters, and making it
into a great Crofs, I fetit up on the Shore where I hrt[
landed, vii. I came on Shbre here the 30ot of Sept. 1659.
Upon the Sides of this fquare Poft, I cut every Day a
Notch with my Knife, and every feventh Notch was
as long again as the reft, and every firft Day of the
JAlonth as long again as that long one; and thus I kept
my Kalendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly Reekoning of Time.
-n the next place we are to obferve, that among the
many things which I brought off the Ship iri the ieveral Voyage, which, as abovemention'd, I made to it, I
got feveral things of lefs value, but not at all lefs ufeul to me, which I omitted fetting down before; as in
particular, Pens, Ink, and Paper, leveral Parcels in the
Captain'sj Mate's, Gunner's, and Carpenter's keeping,
three or:four Compaffes, tme Mathematical Inftru*
ttnts,, Dials, Perfpe&ives, Charts, and Books of Navigation all which I huddled together, whethter I might
want them or no; alfo I found three very good Bibless
which came to me in my Cargo from ErSgland, and
which I had pack'd up among my things; fome Pcrtuutet Books alfo, and among them two or three Pepilh
Prayer-Books, and feveral other Books, all which I careutlly fecur'd. And I mnft not forget that we had in
the Ship a Dog and two Cats, of whofe enminent Hittory I may have occafion to fay fomething in its Place;
for I carried both'the Cats with me; and as for the
Dog, he jump'd outof the Ship of himfelg and fwam
on Shore to me the Day after I went on Shore with my
fifu Cargo, and was a trufty Servant to me many
yoars: I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any




( 6i )
aty Company that he could make up to me; I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not
do. As I obtirv'd before, I found Pen, Ink and Paper,
and I husbanded them to the utmoft; and I fhall fhew,
that while my Ink lailed, I kept things very exa&f; but
after that was gone, I, could not; for I could not make
any Ink, by any Means that I could devile.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithftandiiig all that I had amafs'd together; and of
thele, this of Ink was one, as alfo a Spade, Pick-Axe and
Shovel, to dig or remove the Earth; Needles, Pins and,
Thread; as fbr Linnen I foon learn'd to want that without much Difficulty.
This Want of' Tools made every Work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole Year before I had entirely finified my little Pale,' or furrounded Habitation:: The Piles, or Stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the W'cods, and more by tar in bringing
home; fob that I fpent fometines two Days irin- utting
and bringing home one of thofe Polls, and a third 1)ay
in 4driving it into the Ground; for which purpofe f
got a heavy Piece of Wood at firft, but at lail bethought
my felt of- o~e of tfie Irn Crows, -whidh howevfr, tho'
I found it, yet it made driving tho-fe Polls or Piles very
laborious aMd tedious Work.
But what need I ha' been concerned at theTedioufnefs 4ny thing I had to do, feeing I had time encugh
to do it in; nor had I any other Employment if that
had been over, at leaft, that I could forelee, except the
ranging the I land to feek for FPood, whichl I did more
or lefs every Day.                   t
I now began to confider ferioufly my Condition, and
the Circumtance I;was reduc'd to; and I drew up the
Stateiof my Affais in Writing; not tob much to leave
them: to. any that were to come after me, for I was like
to have but few Heirs, as to deliver my Thoughts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my Mina; and
as my Reilon began now to mafler my Difpotdency,
I began-to comfort my felflas well a 1I could, and fo
fet the Good againft the Evil, that I might have fome.
thing to:diftinguiti my Caie from worfe; and, 1 fgatedl.,. it




( 162
it very 'impartially, like Debtor arid Creditor, the Com4
forts I enijoy'd, againift tba Mii~res I iifufer'd, thus:,


E3V IL.
Iam cafi upon a horrible
defolate Ifand, void of all
-Hope of Recovery.
I am, fngled out and fe.
painted, as it were, firrm
allI thre W~rld to, be ~mifia
IJam divid4d from Mank ind, a Solitairy, one hat~f$'d from, human &gtice.
Ihave noWloatloto 00over
me.
Io am  vithou tany,Defence or M ean s to reif/I any
Violence of man or lBeafl.


GOO0D.
lBut IJam alive, and not
drovin'd, as all my Ships
Company woas.
But I amfingled out tov
fkm, allb $b Ship's C~rewo to
be fpared froom Death;- and
4i tat miraculpufly faved
me frTos Death, can delis'er
~e jrom this Condition.
Biut I am not flarv'd and
-Perilbing on a~ barren Plasces,aflrdhqg no Suftenamce.
Bat IJam   in a, hortClis
Mate-where if Ilhod Cleat hs,
1 could ardl wer t'em..&ut I am ca/I on an Ifland
w;here Ifee no, mild Beafis,to hart ~ne, as Ifiaw  on A4
~Ca4I Of "A fria: A4,1d Mwat
~if VWba be-enS4*wVWk~
thr?


7 hja'e no Ssal to fpeak;tp,  Sut Gdwneflyfn
trrelieve me.             tbesbip in near enrughb totI
Shore., that, I have gittex out
fooany$:necefloy~ PXn,~s
or emna~le istO; to k4PImy
firlJ3, even as long- 4sidiilie.,
Upon the whole, here was an 4ndoubtd, T61imo
DrY, that therv was foarce anY Condition Ain the World
fo niiferablei, butat there was~ fomethirg neative or foneo.
Jbing pcris   htakiifrin it,;.,andy Jetihis     idao
as




( 63 )
as a Direcion from the Experience of the moll miferable
of all Conditions in this World, that we may always
find in it fbmething to comfort ourfllves from, and to
fet in the Defcription of Good and Evil, on the Credit
fide of the Account.
Having now brought my Mind a little to reliih my
Condition, and given over looking out to Sea, to iee if
I could Ipy a Ship; I fay, giving over thefe Things, I
began to apply myfelf to accommodate my way of Living, and to make things as eafy to me as I could.
I have already defcribed my Habitation, which was
a Tent under the fide of a Rock, furrounded with a
ftrong Pale of Pofts and Cables, but  mnight now rather call it a Wall; for I raifed a kind of Wall up againft
it of Turfs, about two Foot thick on the Outfide; and
after fome time, (1 think it was a Year and half) I
raired Rafters from it, leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd
or cover'd it with Boughs of Trees, and fitch things as
I could get, to keep out the Rain, which I found at
fome times of the Year very violent.
I have already obferv'd how I brought all my
Goods into this Pale, and into the Cave which I had
made behind me: But I mull obferve too, that at firtt
this was a confused Heap of Goods, which as they lay
in no Order, fo they took up all my Place, I had no
room to turn my llt fo I fet myfelf to enlarge my Cave,
and work'd farther into the Earth; for it was a loofe
fandy Rock, which yielded eafily to the Labour I beftowed on it: And fo when 1I found I was pretty fafe
as to Beafs of Prey, I work'd fideways to the Right
Hand into the Rock; and then turning to the Right again, work'd quite out, and made me Door to conm
out on the Outfide of my Pale or Fortification.
This gave me not only Egrefs and Regrefs, asit were
a Back-Way to my Tent, and to my Store-houfe, but
gave me-oom to flow my Goods.
And now I began to apply myfelf to make filch
telary;things as I found I moft wanted, particularly a
Chair and a Table; for without thefe I was not able to
enjoy the few Comfirtst lad in the World; I could
not write or eat, or feveral things, with ib much Pleafure wih.Outia -Table,, I. $o




'( 64    )
So I went to work: and here I nmuf needs obferve
that as Reafon is the Subflance and Original of the Mathematicks, fo by flating and iqularing every thing by
Reafon, and by making the molt rational Judgnment of
things, every Man may be in time,. after of every Me.
chanick Art. I had never handled a Tool in my Litt,
and yet in time, by Labour, Application and Contrivance, I found at laft that I wanted nothing but I cculd
have made it, efpecially if I had had Tools; however,
I made abundance of things even without Tools, and
fome with no more Tools thin an Adz and a Hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infinite Labour. For Example, If I wanted
a Board, I had no other way but to cut down a Tree,
fet it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
Side with my Axe, till I had brought it to be as thin
as a Plank, and then dubb it finooth with my Adz:
It is true, by this Method I could make but one Board
out of a whole Tree, but this I had no Remedy for but
Patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal
of Time and Labour which it took me up to make a
Plank or Board: But my, Time or Labour was little
worth, and foit was as well employ'd one may as a.
nother., However, I made me a Table and a Chair, as I obferv'd above, in the firft Place, and this I did out ot
the ihort Pieces of Boards that I brought on my Raft
from the Ship: But when I had wrought out fome
Boards, as above, I made large Shelves of the breadth
of a Foot and a half, one over another, all along one
fide of my Cave, to lay all my Tools, Nails and Iron'work, and in a Word, to feparate every thing at large
in their Places, that I might eafily come at them; allb
I knoak'd Pieces into the Wall of the Rock to hang my
Guis*,'and all hings that wotuld.hang -up...
So that had my Cave, been to be feen, it look, like a
general Magazinebof all neceffary things; and  I had
every thing fo ready at iny Hand, that it wass a great
Pleatlreto men to fee all my Goids in fuch Order, and
efpecially;to find my Stock of all NecefCarits fo great.
And now it waswhen I hegan to keep a Journal of
every Day's Employment, for indeed at firit I was i
too




( 65)
too much Hurry, and not only a Hurry as to Labour,
but in too much Difcompofure of Mind, and my Journal would ha' been full of many dull things. For Example, I muft have faid thus: Self. the 3oth. After I
got to Shore, and had efcap'd drowning, inflead of being thankful to God for my Deliverance, having firft
vomited, with the great Quantity of Ialt Water which
was gotten into my Stomach, and recovering my felf a
little, I ran about the Shore, wringing my Hands and
beating my Head and Face, exclaiming at my Mifery,
and crying out, I was undone, undone, till tir'd and faint,
I was forc'd to lye down on the Ground to Repofe, but
durft not fleep, for fear of being devoured.
Some Days after this and after I had been on board
the Ship, and had got all I could out of her, yet I could
not forbear gettirg up to the Top of a little Mountain,
and looking out to Sea, in hopes of feeing a Ship, then
fancy at a vaft Diftance I fpy'd a Sail, pleafe my felt
with the Hopes of it, and then after looking fteadily till
I was almoft blind, lofe it quite, and fit down and weep
like a Child, and thus encreafe my Mifery by my Folly.
But having gotten over there thingf in tobme meafure, and -having fettled my Houlhold Stuff and Ha.
bitation, made me w Table and a Chair, and all -as
handrfome about me as could, I began, fay, to keep my
Journal, of which I fhall here give you the Copy,
(tho' in it will be told all thefe Particulars over again)
as long as it lafied; for at lafi having no more Ink,
I was forced to leave it off.
The J           OUR iA L.
Eptember 30, T659. I, poor miferable Ro.
binfon Crufoe, being thipwreck'd, during a
dreadful Storm in the Ojfing, came on Shore
on this difmal unfortunate Ifland, which I
call'd the fland of Defairw, all the reft of
the Ship's Company being drown'd, and my felf almoil dead..
Ah




( 66)
AIl the reftof th Day I fpent in affliing my felf at
the. difmal Circumitances I was brought to, vit. I haad
neither Food, Houfe, Cloaths, Weapon, or Place to
fly to, and in Defpair of any Relief, faw nothing but
Death before me, either that I Ihould be devour'd by
wild Beafs, murder'd by Savages, or flarv'd to Death
fpr want of Food. At the Approach of Night, I flept
in a Tree for fear of wild Creatures, but flept foundly, tho' it rain'd all Night.
Oihcber i. In the Morning I faw, to my great Surprize, the Ship had floated with the high Tide, and
was driven on Shore again much nearer the Ifland,
which, as it was fome Comfort on one hand (for feeing hpr fit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped,
if the Wind abated, I might get on board, and get fme
Food and Neceffaries out of her for my Relief) fo on
the other hand, it renew'd my Grief at the Lofs of imy
Comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all (taid on
board, might have faved the Ship, or at leaf that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and
that had the Men been rived, we might perhaps have
built us a Boat out of the Rins of the Ship, to have
carried us 'to frome ther Part of the World. I fpen
great Part of this Day in perplqing my felfon thefe
tiigs?  bt at length fecing t~r$hip almot p dry, I
went pon,the Sand 7as near as I coul4 and then fiwam
on board: This Day alfo continued raining, tho' with
no Wind at all.
From the if of Oober to the 4th. All thefe pays
entirely tpent in many feveral Voyages to get all I could
out of the Ship, which I brought on Shore every Tide
of Flood upon Rafts. Much Rain alfo in there Days,
tho' with fome Intervals of fair Weather:!$ut, it feems,
this was the rainy SeaCfoln
O. 2c. I overfet my Raft, and all the Goods I had
got upon it; but being in thoal Water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recover'd many of them when
the Tide was out.
0*..   It raind all Night and all.Day, with fome
GutEs of Wini,   during which Tile the Ship broke in
Piect, the W iud bloving a little ehardr than beforet
and was no more to be feen, except the Wrec of her.and




C 67 )
and that only at low'Water. I fpeot -this Day in cow
vering and fecuring the Goods which I had faved, that
the Rain might not fpoil them.
OL. 26. 1 walk'd about the Shore almoft all Day to
find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly concern'd
to fecure my fel from any Attacs in the Night, either
from wild Beals or Men. Towards Night i fix'd upon
a proper Place under a Rock, and mark'd out a SemiCircle for my Encampment,   which I reoblv'd to
ftrengthen with a Work, Wall, or Fortification, made
of double Piles, lined within with Cable, and without
with Turf. ''
From the 26th to the 30th, I work'd very hard in
carrying all my Goods to my new Habitation, though
foie Part of the T'in  it rain'd exceeding hard.
The 3 0i in t:e i ning I went out into the Jflan
with my Gun to bfor fome Food, and difcover thc
Country, when i ktfl'd a She-Goat, and her Kid follow'd me Home, which I afterwards kill'd alfo, becaufe
it would not feed.
November i. I fet up my Tent under a Rock, and lay
there for the firft Night, -making it as large as I could
with Stakes driven in to fwing my Hammock upon..Nv, 2. I,ft up all my Chefts and Boards, ard the
Iitees of Timber whiec made my Rafts, and with them
form'd a Fence round me, a little within the Place I
had mark'd out for my Fortification.
Nov. 3. I went sut with my Gun, and kill'd two
Powss like Dacks, which were very good Food. In the
Afternoon went to work to make me a Table.
%v. 4. This Morning I began to order my Times
of Work, of going 'out with my (Gun, Time of Sleejp
and Time of Diverfion, viz. Every Morning I walk'd
cut with my Gun for two or three Hours, if it did not
rain, then employ'd my felf to work ill about eleven
a Clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to fleep, the Weather being
excefive hot, and then in the Evening to Ixork.gain:
The working Part of this Day and the next were whol
ly employed in making my Table, for. I was yet but a
very Ibrry Workman, tho' Time and Neceffity made
mO




(68'
me a compleat natural Mechanick oon after, as I believe
it would do any one elfe.
Nov. A. This Day I went abroal with my Gun and
my Dog, and kill'd a wild Cat, her Skin pretty Ifft,
but her FleIlj good for nothing: Every Creature. I kill'd,
I took 'off the Skins and preferv'd them. Coming
ba4*by the Sea Shore, I faw many Sorts of Sea-Fowls
which 4 did not underftand; but was furprized, and altmoft frighted with two or three- Seals, which, while
I was gazing at, no  ell knowin  vhat they were, got
into the Sea, and e f   brc fe   time.
2Nru. 6. After my Morning Wg a; went to Work
with my Table again, and fininhe  t!iho' not to my
Liking; nor was it long before I l!  to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to ber Weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, loth, and P        Ith (for the
x Ith was Sunday, according to         Ig)  took
wholly up to make me a Chair,            uch ado
brought it to a tolerable Shape, but never tleafe me;
and even in the Making I pull'd it to Pieces feveral
times. Note, I foon negle&ed my keeping Sunday; for
omitting my Mark for them on my Poftl I forgot which
w   which.
Nl1 3. This Day it rained, which refrefhed me
exceedingly, and cooled the Earth, but it was accompany'd with terrible Thunder and Lightning, which frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my Powder: As foon as
it was over, I refolved to feparate my Stock of Powder
into as many little Parcels as poffible, that it might not
be in Danger.
Nv. 14, 1 5, 6. Thefe three Days I fpent in making
little fiuare Chefis or Boxes, which might hold about
A Pound, or two Pound, at mof, of Powder; and fo
putting the Powder in, I ftowed it in Places as fecure
and remote from one another as poflible. On one of
thefe three Days I kill'd a large Bird that was good to
eat, but I knew not what to call it.:N^ 2. 17. This Day I began to dig behind my Tent
into the Rock, to make room for my farther Conveniency. Note, Three Things I wanted exceedingly for
this Work, vT. a Pick-axe, a Shovel, and a Waeelbarrow or Basket, fo I defifed from my Work, and began




( 69 )
gan to confider how to fupply that Wanlt, and make me
ibme Tools. As for a Pick-axe, I made ufe of the Iron Crows, which were proper enough, tho' heavy;
but the next Thing was a Shovel or Spade; this was fo
abSolutely necefilry, that indeed I could do nothing effeftually without it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
Nov. t8. The next Day in fearching the Woods, I
found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which in the Brafils they call the Iron Tree, for its exceeding Hardnefs;
of this, with great Labour, and almoft ipoiling my Ax,
I cut a Piece, and brought it Home too with Dlfficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The exceffive Hardnefs of the Wood, and having no
other Way, made me a long while upon this Machine,
for I work'd it effectually, by little and little, into the
Form of a Shovel or Spade, the Handle exafly fhap'd
like ours in England, only that the broad Part having
no Iron fhod upon it at Bottom, it would not laft me
fo long; however it ferv'd well enough for the Ufes
which i had Occafion to put it to; but never was a
Shovel,. I believe, made after that Faihion, or fo long
a making.
I was Hill deficient, for I wanted a Basket or a Wheelb
barrow; a Basket I could not make by any means, having no fuch Things as Twigs that would bend to make
VWicker Ware, at leaft none yet found out; and as to
the Wheel-barrow, I fancy'd I could make all but the
Wheel, but that I had no Notion of, neither did I
know how to go about it; befides, I had no poflible
Way to make Iron Gudgeons for, the Spindle or Axis of
theW heel to run in, fo I gave it over; and fo for carrying
away the Earth which I dug out of the Cave, I made
me a thing like a Hoad which! the Labourers carryMortar in when they ferve the Brick-la) ers.
This was not fo difficult to me as the making the
Shovel; and yet this, and the Shovel, and the Attempt,
which I made in vain, to make a Wheel-barrow, took,me up no lefs than four Days; I mean always, excepting my Mornings Walk with my Gun; which I feldom
fail'd, and very feldom fail'd alfo of bringing home
fbmething fit to eat.
Av. 23.




(70 )
iou. 23. My other Work having now flood Rill, be.
caufe of my making thefe Tools; when they were finifhed, I went on; and working every Day, as my Strength
and Time allow'd, I fpent eighteen Days entirely in
widening and deepening my Cave, that it might hold
lmy Goods eommiodioufly.
Nate, During all this Time, I work'd to make this
Room or Cave fpacioas enough to accommodate me as a
Ware-houfe or Magazine, a Kitchen, a Dining-room,
and a Cellar; as for a Lodging, I kept to the Tent, except that obmetimes in the wet Seafbn of the Year, it
rain'd fo hard that I could not keep my felf dry, which
caus'd me afterwards to cover all my Place within my
Pale with long Poles in the form of Rafters, leaning againft the Rock, and load them with Flags, and large
Leaves of Trees like a Thatch.
December Io. I began nowto think my Cave or Vault
finiihed, when on a iuddain (it eelms I had made it too
large) a great Quantity of Earth fell down from the
Top and one Side, fo much, that in ihort it frighted me,
and not without Reafon too, for if' had been under it,
I had never wanted a Grave-digger: Upon this Difafter
I had a great deal of Work to do over again; for I had
the loofe Earth to carry ott, and, which was of more
Importance, I had the Cieling to prop up, fo that I
might be fure no more would come down.
Dec. ix. This Day I went to work with it accord.
ingly, and got two Shoars, or Pofts pitch'd upright to
the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-crofs over each
Poll: This I finifh'd the next Day; and letting more
Pofts up with Boards, in about a Week more I had the
Roof fecured; and the Pofts ftanding in Rows, ferved
me for artitions to part off my Houle.
Dec. 17. From this Day to the 20th,'l placed Shelves,
and knock'd up Nails on the Pofts to hang every thing
tip that could be hung up, and now I began to be in
fome Order within Doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the Cave,
and began toTurnilh my Houfe, and fet up fome Pleees
of Boards like a Dreffer, to order my Vi&ualst pon;
but Boards began to be very fcarce with me: Alfo I
made me another Table.
Dec. 24.




( 7I )
Dec. 24. Much Rain all Night and all Day; no ftirl
ring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all. Day.
Dec. 26. No lain, and the Earth niucd cooler than
before, and pleafanter.
Dec. 27. Kill'd a young Goat, and lam'd artother,
fo that I catch'd it, and led it Hone in a String; when
I had it Home, I bound and fplinter'd up its Leg which
was broke. 2V. B. I took fuch care of it that it lived,
and the Leg grew well, and as 1trong as ever; but 1by
nurfing it fo long it grew tame, and fei upon the little
Green at my Door, and would not go away. This
was the flrft time that I entertained a Thought of breeding up fortt tame Creatures, that I might have Food
when my Powder and Shot was all fpent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great Heats ard no Breeze; fo that
there was no ftirring abroad, except in the Evening tor
Food   This Time i fpent in putting all my Things in
Order within Doors.
January t. Very hot Hfill but I went abroad early
and late with my Gun, and lay fill in tihe middle of
the Day: This' Evenirg going fartler into the Valleys,
which lay towards the Center of the Ifland, I found
there was plenty of Goats, tho' exceeding fhie and hard
to come at; however, I refolv'd to try if I could not
bring my Dog to hunt them down.
7an. 2. Accordingly, the next Day I ivernt out with
my Dog, and fet him upon the Goats; but I wis  inilaken, for they all faced about upon the Dog, and he
knew his Danger too well, for he wouldl not cohle near
them.:
Yan. 3. I began my Fence or Wall, which, being finl
jealous of my being attack'd by fomre Body, I reiblv'd to
to make very thick and ftrong.
N. B. This Wal beirg eef,lribed beJfre, I p  rfeIy
omit  hat was faid in th f ourndl' it isfuicient
to obfeve, that 1 was no 1es ime tfa'n from the
3dof January to the 14tb of A pril, vokorti, finiJh
ing and perfering this Wall, tbo' it was no more
than abcut 24 Tards in length, being a half Circe
fotm one PIace i4 the Rock to another Place aboet
^ iS/




( 72 )
e;ght Tardsfrom it, the Do.r of thb Cave being ir
thi Center behind it.
All this.time I work'd very hard, the Rains hindering me many Days, ray, fometines Weeks together;
but I thought I ihould never be perfe&ly lecure till this
Wall was finifh'd; and it is fcarce credible what inex.
preflible Labour every thing was done with, efpecially
the bringing Piles out of the Woods, and driving them
into the Ground; for I made them much bigger than 1
needed to have done.
When this Wall was finifl'd, and the Outlide double
fenced with a Turf-Wall raifed up clofe to it, I per.
fwaded myfelf; that if any People were come on ihore
there, they would not perceive any thing like a Habitation: And it was very well I did fo, as may be obferv'd hereafter, upon a very remarkable Occafion.
During this time, I made my Rounds in the Woods
for Game every Day when the Rain admitted me, and
made frequent Difcoverics in thefe Walks of fomething
or other to my Advantage; particularly I found a kind
of wild Pidgeons, who built not as Wood-Pidgeons in
a Tree, but rather as Houfe-Pidgeons, in the Holes of,
the Rocks; and taking fome young ones, I endeavoured
to breed them up tame, and did fo; but when they
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps was at
firft want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them   however I frequently found their Nefts, and got
their young ones, which were very good Meat.
And now in the managing my Houihold Affairs, I
found my felf wanting in many things, which I thought
at firtt it was inmpoffible for me to make, as indeed  s
to fome of them it was: For inflance, I could never
make a Cask to be hoop'd; I had a fmall Runlet or,
two, as I cbferv'd befre, but I could never arrive to the
Capacity of making one by them, tlho I fpent many
Weeks about it; I could neither put in the Heads, or
join the Staves fo true to one another, as to make themn
hold Water; fo I gave that alfo over.
In th. next Place, I was at a great lofs for Candle;
fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was generally
by Seven o' Clock, I was oblied to go to Bed. I remenlber




( 73 )
member'd the Lump of Bees-Wax, with which I made
Candles in my African Adventure; but I had none of
that now: The only Remedy I had, was, that when I
had kil'd a Goat, I faved the Tallow, and with a little
Dilh made of Clay, which I baked in   the Sun, to
which I added a Wick of 'ome Oakuml, I made me a
Lamlp; and this gaye me Light, tho' not a clear ftea.
dy Light like a Cahdle. In the middle of all my Labours it happen'd, that rummaging my Things, 1 found
a little Bag, whichi as I hinted before, had been fill'd
with Corn for the feeding of Poultry, not for this Voyage, but before, as I fuppofe, when the Ship camln from
Lisbon; what little Remainder of Corn had been in the
Bag, was all devoured with the Rats, and I fhw nothing
in the Bag but Husks and Dull; and being willing to have the Bag for fome other Ufe, (I think it
was to put Powder in, when I divided it for tear of
the Lightening, or fome fuch Uie,) I flook the Husks
of Corn out of it on one fide of my Fortification unde r
the Rock.
It was a little before the great Rains, juff now men.
tioned, that I threw this Stuff away, taking no Notice
of' any thing, and not fo tmuch as remembring that I
had thrown any thing there; when about a Month after, or thereabouts, I faw fome few Stalks of fomething
*green flooting out of the Ground, which I fancied
might be fome Plant I had not feen; but I was furprized and perfe&ly aflonifh'd, when after a little longer time I law about ten or twelve Ears come out, which
were perfet green Barley of the fame Kind as our Elar
pean, nay, as our Englijb Barley.
It is impofible to exprefs the Aftonifhment and Confufion of my Thoughts on this Occafion; I had hitherto a&ted upon no religious Foundation at all; indeed I had very few Notions of Religion in my Head,
nor had entertained any Senfe of any Thing that had
befallen me, otherwife than as a Chance, or, as we
lightly fay, what pleafes Go&; without fo much as enquiring into the End of Providence in thefe Things,
or his Order in governing Events in, the World: But
after I faw Barley grow there, in a Climate which I
knew was not proper for Corn, and efpecially that I
E                  knew




( 74):1new not how it came there, it ftartled me firangly, atna
I began to fuggeft, that God had miraculoufly caus'd
this Grain to grow without any Help of Seed fown, and.that it was fo direded purely for my Suftenance in that
xwild miterable Place.
This touch'd my Heart a little, and, brought Tears
o-mt of my Eyes, and I began to blefis my felf that fuch
a Prodigy of Nature fhould happen upon my Account;.and this was the more ftrange to me, becault I faw near
it till, all along by the Side of the Rock, fome other
tlraggling Stalks, which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice,
ard which I knew, becaufe I had feen it grow in Africa
when I was afhore there.
I not only thought thefe the pure Produfions of
Providence for my Support, but nor doubting, but that
there was more in thle Place, I went all over that Part
of the ifland, where I had been before, peering in every Corner, and-under every Rock, to fee for more of it,
hut I could not find any; at laft it occur'd to my
Thoughts, that I had flouk the Bag of Chickens Meat,cut, in that Place, and then the Wonder began to ceafe;
land I muft confefs, my religious Thankfulnefs to God's
'Providence began to abate too, upon the discovering that
all this was nothing but what wascommon; tho' I ought
to have been as thankful tor fo ftrange and unfbrefeen
Provideuce, as if' it had been miraculous; for it was
' eally the Work of Providence as to me, that fhould orIder or appoint, that io or 12 Grains of Corn flould remXnan unfpoil'd (when the Rats had deftroy'd all the
xeft) asit it had been droptfr'im Heaven: As allb that
I fhould throw it out in tlhat particular Place where,
it being in the Shade of a high Rock, it fprang up immnediately; whereas, if I had thrown it any where elfe
it that T'ime, it had been burnt up and deftroy'd.
I carefully fav'd the Ears of this Corn, you may be
fure in their Seafon, Which was. about the fEnd of June,
aund laying tip every Corn, I refolv''d to fow themi all
-;gain, hoping in Time to have fome Q#antity fufficient
~o f~pply me with Bread;-. but it wags not till the 4th
Year that I could allow- my felfthe leaft Grarin ofthis
Corn to eat, and even tben but f:paringly, as fiall fay
fter.wardsin its Order  for I.od.all that I fow'd the,,                                  ft




( 7 )
frfl Seaforn, not by not obferving the proper Titie,-for
I fow'd it juft before the dry Seafon, fo that it never
came up at all, at leaft, not as it4vould have done: O
which in its Place.
Belides this Barley, there was, as above, 2 or 30
Stalks of Rice, which i preferv'd with the ifme Care, and
whofe Ufe was of the fame Kind, orto the fame Furpofe, (vi{.) to make me Bread, or rather Food; for I
found- NN ays to cook it up without baking, tho' I did
that alfo after fome Time. But to return to my Journal.
I work'd exceflive hard this three or four Months, to
get my.Wall done; and the 14th of April l cloed it up,
contriving to gointo it, not by a Door, but over a Wall
by a Ladder, that there might beno Sign on the Outfide
of ny Habitation.
April 16. I finifh'd the Ladder, fo I went up with
the Ladder to the Top, and then pull'd it up after me,
and let it doxwn on the Infide: This was a compleat
Enclofijre to me; for within I had room enough, and
oothing could come at me from without, unlefs it could
firft iutint my7 Wall.
The very next Day after this Wall was finilh'd, I had
almoft had all nay Labour overthrown at once, and my
Jelf kill'd; the Cafe was thus: As I was buay in the
Infide of it. behind my Tent, julf in the Entrance into my Cav;  I was terribly frighted with a moft dreadful furprizing tiing indeed; for all on a fudden I foun;l
the Earth came tumbling down frtno the Roof ~ my
Gave, and from the Edge of the Hill over my  aead,
and two of:the Ports I had fet up in the Cave, crack'd
in a frightful manner: I was heartily flared, but thought
nothing of what really was the Catfe; only thinking
that the Top of my Cave was falling in, as Tome of it
-hadone before, and for fear I ihould be buried in it,
I ranr/forw4rdto my Ladder, and not thinking my felt
fafe there neither, I got over my7Wall for fear of the
Pieces f the 4ill which I expe&ed might roll down upon me    I was no fooner fteptdown upon the firm.Ground, buht i:plainly faw it wis a.terrillle Earthqtake,
for the Ground I flood on fhook three Times, at about
4ight Minutes Diltnce, with three fich Shocks as..                   2               'wouil




( 76 )
would have overturned the itrongetl Building that
could be fuppofed to have ftood on the Earth; and a
great Piece of the Top of a Rock, which flood about
half a Mile from me Next the Sea, fell down with fuch
a terrible Noife, as I never heard in all my Life. I
perceived alfo, the very Sea was put into a violent Motion by it; and I believe the Shocks were fironger under
the " ater than on the Ifland.
I wasfo amaz'd with the Thing it felf, having never
felt the like, or difcours'd with any one that had, that
I was like one dead or ftupified; and the Motion of
the Earth made my Stomack fick, like one that was
tofs'd at Sea; but the Noife of the falling of the Rock
awaked me, as it were, and routing me from the flupified Condition I was in, fill'd me with Horror, and
I thought of nothing then but the Hill falling upon my
Tent, and all my Houfhold-Goods, and burying all at
once; and this funk my very Soul within me a fecond
time.
After the third Shock was over, and I felt no more
for fome Time, I began to take Courage, and yet I had
not Heart enough to get over my Wall again, fbr fear
of being buried alive, but fat fiill upon the Ground,
greatly cafl down and difconfolate, not knowing what
to do: All this while I had not the leaft ierious religious Thought, nothing but the common, Lord ha'
Mercy upon me; and when it was over, that went away
too.
'kile I fat thus, I found theAir over-caft, and it grew
cloudy, as if it would rain; and in lefs than halfan Hour
it blew a mofl dreadful Hurricane of Wind: The Sea
all on a iudden cover'd with Foam and Froth, the
Shore was cover'd with the Breach of the Water, the
Trees were torn up by the Roots, and a terrible Storm
it was; and this held about three Hours, and then began to abate, and then in two Hours more it was calm,
and began to rain very hard.
All this while I fat upon the Ground very much terrified and deje&fed, when on a fudden it came into my
Thoughts, that theie Winds and Rain being the Confequence of the Earthquake, the Earthquake it felf
was fpent and over, and I might venture into my Cave
again,




( 77)
again: Withthis Thought my Spirits began to revive
and the Rain helping allb to perivade me, I went in
and fat down in mny fent; but the Rain was ib vio.
lent, that my Tent was ready to be beaten down,
with it, and I was forced to go into my Cave, tho'
Very much afraid and uneafy, for fear it ihould fall on
my Head,
This violent Rain forced me to a new Work, vi?. to
cut a Hole thro' my new Fortification like a Sink to let
the Water go out, which would elfe have drown'd my
Care. After I had been in my Cave fome time, and
found fill no more Shocks of the Earthquake follow, I
began to be more compoled; and now, to fupport my
Spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to
my little Store, and took a finall Sup of Rum, which
however I did then and always very iparinglv, knowing I could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that Night, and great part
of the next Day, fo that I could not tir abroad; but
my Mind being more compofed, I began to think of
what I had bell do, concluding, that it the Ifland was
iiubje& to thefe Earthquakes, there would be no living
fbr me in a Cave, but I muft confider of building me
mne little Hut in an open Place, which I might firround with a Wall, as I'liad done here, and to make
my felffecure from wild Beafts or Men; but concluded,
if I flaid where I was, I ihould certainly, one time or
other, be buried alive.. With there Thoughts I refolv'd to remove my Tent
mimRtbe Place where, it food, which was juft under
the ohanging Precipie of the Hill, and which, if it
fhould be fhaken again, would certainly fall upon my
Tent; A'nd r fpent the two next Days, bing the 19th
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my Habitation.
The Fear of being fwallow'd up alive, made me, that
I never lept in quiet; and yet the Apprehenfon of
lying abroad without any Fence, was almoft equal to
it: But ftill, when I look'd about, and faw how every
thing was put in Order, how pleafantly conceald' I
waend how fafe from Danger, it made me very loth
to remove.


ES 3


In




(78 )
ID the 'mean time it occurr'd to me, that ~it wouldt
reqUire a vail deal of Time ~for me to do this, and that
I mull he contented to run the Venture where I was,
till I had fbrm'd: a Camp, for mrny fielf, and had fiecured
it fo as to reniove to it: So with this Refolurion Icom-~
poked my fel f fior a Time, and refolr'd that. I would go'
to work with all fpeed to build me a, Wall with Pile
and Cables, FS1c. in a Circle, as before, and fet my Trent
-up in it when it wvas finilh'ld, but that I would ventures
to flay where I was, till it. was flnifh'd and fit. to 're'move to.~ This wVas the 2111.
4o41!22. The next- Mforning.I bega.to confider of
Mveans to put tlis-Refoive in execution,;:,bu~t,41-was 'a#;
agreat Lofs ab~out myTol:     ad threeIvgAxs
and abundance of Hatchets, ( for we carried the 1Iat
eliets for Tyaffic with the Indians) but with much chop
VP&n and cutting knotty, hard Wood,; they were all ft~I
of Notches, and dudll; and tho' I. had a Grindftone, I
could not turn it and grind mny Tools too: T his coft,
me as- much Thought as a Statefman would have, be'low'd. tvpon a grand Point of Politicks, or a Judge
topon the Life and Death of -a Man. At length I con,'
trivedt a Whbeel with. a String,.to turn it; with my Foots
that I might have bothi my Rands ~at "Liberty. Nom
I had not feen any fuch Thi in England, or tl1eaft1
rot to take Notice bho-w it waS doe, itIho' fince: r ha~v
obferved, it is very comm on there i bfdshat),m
Crindtlone was very large and heav~y. This Xlaehnine
coft ~me a~, fullJWedk's Wo'rk, ~to,bring it'to Por-fei6Hon.
April 28, 29. T'hefe twowol    ayItokuA
rinding mny Tools, my. Machine 4for turbiamy  in,
ftone perfoi~ming very well.          gm*rn
April 30  liavin  perceived my Eread had belv
-a,great while, I 'now. took a Survey of it, and redu'ed
m-y felf to one Bisket-cake a Day which made myHeam~
very heavy.
4ay.nth Mmorning looking Aow~ards th-e Sea-1
fide te  Tide being Iow J faw ibtnetbtnA`,ieo  h
S1ord~ hgg'er than ordinariy, Aild~ii look'4like ak Cask;
when fi 1- came twiit, f fousrnt a fimall Bairr0i  'an tW  or,
ilfree ~Piaccv:of the:Wre~k 4of che tShtp ~hi h *r
driven on Shore by the late Hurricane, and lookibg towards




( 79 )
wards the Wreck it felf, I thought it fcemed to l1ie'
higher out of the Water than it ufed to do; I examine&
tihe Barrel which was driven on Shore, and foon found
it was a Barrel of Gun-powder, but it had taken Wa.ter, and the Powder was caked. as hatrd as a Stone
However, I rolled it farther on Shore for the pretent,
and went on upon the Sands, as near as I could to the
Wreck of the bhip to loolk for more.
When I came down to the Ship, I found it ftrange1y removed: The ForecafUte, which lay before buried
in Sand, was heav'd up at leaft ix Foot, and the Stern,
which was broke to pieces, and parted fl or the reif by
the Force of the Sea, foon afier I had left rummaging
of her, was tofi'd as it were up, and cait on one ide,
and the Sand was thrown fo high on that Side next the
Stern, that whereas there was a great Place of Water befre, fo that I could not come within a Quarter of a
Mile of the Wreck without fwimming, I could now
walk quite up to her when the Tide was out. I was
furprized with this at firfi, but ioon concluded it mufi
be done by the Earthquake; and as by this Violence the
Ship was more broken open than formerly, fo many
things came daily on Shore which tile Sea had loofen'd,
and which the -inds and Water rolled by degrees to
the Land., ^
This wholly diverted my Thoughts from the Defign
of removing my Habitation; and I bufied my ielf
mightily that Day efpecially, in fearching whetr I.
could make any way into the hip, but I fiund nothing
was to be expe&ed of that kind, for that all the infide
of the Ship was choak'd up with Sand: However, as I
bad learnt not to defpair of any thing, I refolved to
pull every thing to pieces that I could of the Ship, concluding that every thing I could get from her would be
ef fome Ufe or other to me.
i4ay 3. I began with my Saw, and cut a Piece of a
Beam thro', which I thought held fome of the upper
Part, or Quarter-Deck, together, and wb ei I had cut
it thro', I cleared away the Sand as welt as I could,
from the Side which lay highell; but the Tide coming,
i, I was obliged to give over for that time.
E 4                   Maj




( So )
Mady 4. I went a-fifhing, but caught not one Fhtl that
I duril eat of, till I was weary of my Sport, when
juil going to leave off I caught a young Dolphin. I
had made me a long Line of fome Rope-Yarn, but I
had no Hooks, yet I frequently caught Fifh enough, as
much as I cared to eat, all which I dryed in the Sun,
and eat them dry.
MIay 5. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another Beam
afunder, ani brought three great Fir Planks off from
the Decks, which I tied together, and made fwim on
Shore when the Tide of Flood came on.
May 6. Work'd on the Wreck, got feveral Iron Bolts
out ofher, and other Pieces of Iron Work, work'd very
bard,and came home very much tir'd, and hadThoughts
of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the Wreck again, but with an Intent
not to work, but found the Weight of the Wreck had
broke it ielf down, the Beams being cut, that feveral
Pieces of the Ship feem'd to lye loofe, and the Infide of
the Hold lay fo open, that I could lee into it, but almnof full of Water and Sand.
May 8. Went to the Wreck, and carried an Iron
Craw to wrench up the Deck, which lay now quite
clear of the Water or Sand; I wrench'd open two
Planks, and brought them   on Shore alto with the
Tide: I left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for next Day.
May Q. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow
made Way into the Body of the Wreck, and felt feveral
%Casksk and loofemd them with the Crow, but could
not break theni up; i felt alfo the Roll of Englijb Led.
and could fir it, but it was tgo heavy to move.
May 1, 11, 12, 13, I4. Went every Day to the
~Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Timber and
Boards, or Plank, and 2 or 300 Weight of Iron.
May 15. I carried two Hatchets to try if I could not
cut a Piece off of the Roll of Lead, by placing the Edge
of one Hatchet, and di iving it with the other but as it
lay about a Foot and a half in the Water, I could not
make any Blow to drive the Hatchet.
May 16. It had blow'd hard in the Night, and the
Wreck appear'd more broken by the Force of the Water; but I flay'd fo long in the Woods to get Pidgeons
for




e


( 8it )
for Food, that the Tide prevented me going to the
Wreck that Day.
May 17. I faw foie pieces of the Wreck blown on
Shore, at a great Difance, two Miles off me, but re-,
folv'd to fee what they were, and found it was a piece
of the Head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every Day to this Day I work'd on the
Wreck, and with hard Labour I loolen'd fome things 1o
much with the Crow, that the firft blowing Tide feveral Casks floated out, and two of the Seamen's
Cheits; but the Wind blowing from the Shore, nothing came to Land that Day,' but pieces of Timber,
and a Hogfhead which had rome Brazil Pork in it, but
the Salt-water and the Sand had fpoil'd.it.
I continue4 this Work every Day to the Irth of
atne, except the Time neceftary to get Food, which I
always appointed, during tlliis Part of my Employment,
tobe when the Tide was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbd out, and by this Time I had gotten
Timber and Plank, and Iron-Work enough to have
built a good Boat, if I had known how; and alfo I got
at feveral times, and in feveral Pieces, near Ioo Weight
of the Sheet-Lead.
Yune 16. Going down to the Sea-fide, T f6und a Targe
Tortoife or Turtle; this was the firft I had feen, which
it feemis was only mny Misfortune, not any Defe& of
the Place, or Scarcity; for had I happen'd to be on the
other Side of the Ifland, I might have had Hundreds of
them every Day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps
had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. 1 fpent in cooking the Turtle; I found in
her three-fcore Eggs; and her Flefh was to me at that
time the moit favoury and pleafant that ever I tailed in
my ~Life, having had' n Flefh, but of Goats and- Fow.ls)
ince ~ landed in this horrible Place.
sune 18. Rain'd all: Day, and I &ffa'd within. I
thought at this tiie the' Rain felt cold, and I was fomething chilly, which I knew was not ulial in that Latitude..une 19. Very ill, and fEhivering, as if the Weather:
had been cold.




Yane 20. No,Refi l t i~hvoetPisi
Elead3, and f~verifih.
lane 21. Very ill, frighted. alizoff to Death with~
the Apprehenfions of my fadt Condition., to be! lick.,
and no H~elp: Pray'd to God for the tfirfa Time fincethe Storm oif of Thl u   creknew whiat I faid. or
why; my Thoughts being all confufed.
Yuine 2 2. A little better,, hut 'Under dreadful, Appre-,
henfions'lof Sicknefs.
~ 3. Veybd again, cldanr        dvring, ad
then" a violent 1-ea Ciah.
Yune 24.- Much bettr
Yfrne 2$5. An Ague~very violent; the 1*t, held  nefeven Hours, cold Fit and, hot, with faint Sweats af,
ter- it?
YwU,e 26.. Better; and having no Vifluals to Ieat,~ tuok
mny Gun,,but foun a ly fe"If ver yweak; hoxyever I
kil' a She'-Goat, and,with n-ch, Diiiiulty got itt.
Uolme, aned broil'd- fome of it, an' ea;IWojdfan
have heawed it, and made fomne Broath, but hadT noPot.
Yfune 27. The Ague     n agif violent, that I lay a-he&
all Day, aind neither eat or drank.. I was-xeady to peri. for Thirfi, but fo wveak, I ~had- not" Stre-nght
ilaind up, or to get my felfany Water to. dink: yray'd,
to Go aanbuwas ig~t-Eeaded,. nd$           IWas,
not, Iwsfignoran4,ta        knew'  ~,o t  to fay
Only, II a and!r'd  rd1k- apon 'nLord       e
-Lord vae -Mcivy 40bm: fippf      did  ohn
for two orthree, Holurs, tll the F t w arigoIjaL
afleep  ndddntwetill a in t he Night       Whe
Iwak'd, I foundI iy. felt' zmuchrelhd but weak, and
exceeding thisfty: However,, as, I had no, Water pin my
-whole Halitation, Ias forc'd to ly-e tilgnnad
went to lepagain: Ip tbis   qdlee      I had thi
terrible Dreamn.     q
Ithoughts, hacI ~aS I t14tin  on theGrund on the
Outlicte of my Wall, where I fat whew-the. 1tprm blewafter the -Earthquake,- a-nd thati~ j'f'aW' a.M~ndfcnd
ftro'm a' great~ black 'Clq~ud, in a bright Flame ofPire,
and'IA.1 'ligupon the&Grouind: He -waszIallover as bright,
as-a Fianlelf fo tat I cbtu'ld but jufi bear to, look towards.
kim; his. Countenance wa5 'Mott incxpr-cIlbly'dreadf'ul,




(' 83 )
impoffble for Words to defcribe; when lie itepp'd upon the Ground with his Feet, I thought the Earth
trembled, juft as it had done before in the Earthquake,
and all the Air look'd, to my Apprehenfion, as if it
had been fill'd with Flafhes of Fire.
'He was no fooner landed upon the Earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long Spear or Wea- -
pon in his Hand, to kill me; and when he came to a
rifing Gronnd, at fome Diftance, he fpoke to me, or I
heard a Volce fo terrible, that it is impoflible to exprefs
the Terror of it; all that I can fay, I underflood, wasthis, Seeing all tbefe Things have not brought thee to Repentance, now thouf halt die: At which Words, I thought'
he lifted up the Spear that was in his Hand to kill me,
No one that fhall ever read this Account, will expe&that I fliould be able A deferibe the Horrors of my Soul
at this terrible Vifion; I mean, that even while it was
a Dream, I even dreamed of thofe Horrors; nor is itany more poilible to defcribe the Impreitfon that remain'd upon my Mind when I awaked and found irwas but a Drean.a
I had, alas! no divine Knqwledge; what I had received by the good lafru&ion of my Father, was then.;
worn out by an uninterrupted Series, fr 8 Years, of~
Seafearing WickNdhef, andd  conftanit Confervation with.nothiig lu1 fuech as were' like my fel,' wicked and profane toItheaft a Pegree: I do not remebert that I ha4
in all tl:t Time one Thought 'that fo mich as tended
either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards.
towards a Refletion upon my own ways; But a certain Stupidity ofSoul, without Defire of Good,or Confcience of Evil, had entirely overwhelm'd me, and I
was Iall that the mofi hardned, unthinking wickedc
Creatre among our common Sail9rs can be fuppofed to
be, not:litiVng tlh leaft Senfe, either. of the Eear of
God in Daingers$ or of Thankfulnefs to God in.iDeli
verances..
In the relating what is already paffof my Story; this
will be the more eafily believed, when I fhall add, that.::
thro' all the Variety of Miferies that had to this Day
befallen me, I never had fo much as one Thought, ofits.beinghe Hand of Godi or that it.was a juf Punilah
e;nt -




(84)
ifient for my Sin, my rebellious Behaviour againft my
Father, or my pretent Sins, which were great; or fo
much as a Punilhment for the general Courfe of my
wicked Life. When I was on the defperate Expedition on the defart Shores of Africa, I never had fo
much as one Thought of what would become of me,
or one With to God to dire& me whither I ihould go,
or to keep me from the Danger which apparently ifurrounded me, as well from voracious Creatures as cruel
Savages: But I was meerly thoughtlefs of God, or a
Providence, a&ded like a meer Brute from the Principles of Nature, and by the Di&ates of common Senfe
only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was deliver'd and taken up at Sea by the
Portugal Captain, well ufed, and dealt juftly and ho.
hourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the
leaft Thankfulnefs in my Thoughts: When again I was
ihipwreck'd, ruin'd, and in Danger of drowning on this
Ifland, I was as far from Remorfe, or looking on it as
a Judgment; I only faid to my felfoften, that I was
an unfr rtunate Dog, and born to be alwavs miferable.
It is true, when I got on fhore firfE here, and found.
all my Ship's Crew drown'd, and my fel fpared, I
was furpriz'd with a kind of Extafy, and folae Tranft
ports of Soul, which, had the grace ofGod afifted,
might have come up to true Thankfulnes; but it ended where it begun, in a meer common Flight of Joy, or,
as I may fay, being glad I was alive, without the leafl
RefleEion upon the difinguifhing Goodnefs ofthe Hand.
which had vreferved me, and had tingled me out to be,
preferv'd, when all the reft were deftroy'd; or an Enquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me;
even jut the fame common fort of Joy which Seamen.
generally have after they have got fafe a fhore from a.
Shipwreck, which they drown all in the next Bowl of
Punch, and forget aliofi as loon as it is ever, and all
the reft of my Life was like it.
Even when I was afterwards, on due Confiieration,
made fenfible of my Condition, how I was caft on this
dreadful Place, out of the Reach of human Kind, out
of all Hope of Relief, or Profpe& of Redemption, as
loon as I Law but a Profpet of Lving, and that I
fhould




( 85 )
fhould not flarve and perifh for Hunger, all the Senfe
of my Aflitiion wore off, and I begun to be very eafy,
apply'd my felftothe Works proper ior my Prefervation
and Supply, and was far enough from being afflited at
my Condition, as a Judgment from  Heaven, or as the
Hand of God againft me: Thefe were Thoughts which
very feldom enter'd into my Head.
' The growing up of the Corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had at firft fome little Influence upon me, and
began to affeft me with Serioufnefs, as long as I thought
it had tbmething nmiraculous in it; but as foon as ever
that Part of the Thought was removed, all the Impreffion which was raifed from it wore offalfo, as I have
noted already.
Even the Earthquake, tho' nothing could be more
terrible in its Nature, or more immediately dire&cing
to the vifible Power, which alone dire&s fuch things,
yet no fooner was the firft Fright over, but the lmpreffion it had made went off alfo. I had no more Senfe
of God or his Judgments, much lefs of the prefent Affli&ion of my Circumftances, being from his Hand than
if I had been in the moft profperous Condition o? Life.
But now when I began to be tick, and a leifurely
View of the Miferies of Death came to place it felfbe.
fore me; when my Spirits began to fink under the Burden of a ftrong Diftemper, and Nature was exhaufted
with the Violence of the Fever; Confcience, that had
flept o long, began to awake, and I began to reproach
my felf with my paft Life, in which I had fi evidently,
by uncommon Wickednefs, provoked the Juftice of
God to lay me under uncommon Strokes, and to deal
with me in fo vindiaive a manner.
Thefe Reflections opprefs'd me for the fecond or third
Day of nmy Diftemper, and in the Violence, as well of
the Fever as of the dreadful Reproaches of my Confcience, extorted fome Words from  me, like praying
to God, tho' I cannot fay they were either a Prayer attended with Defires, or with fI-pes; it was rather the
Voice of meer Fright and Difttefs; my Thoughts were
confuted, the Convifions grkat upon my Mind, and
the Horror of dying in fuch a miferable Condition
raifec Vapours into my Head with the meer Appre,
henfions^




henios  ndin tHe  Hrries of my Soul, I know nro
what my ~Tonu       ih epes      But it. was raher
Exclamain lc       sIoc!vwhat a miferable Creature 'am I' 1If I fhopuld be Iiq41~ I 4Al01 certainly dlie for
want ot iielp, and what wilfl beome of me! Then the
Ter  uf  u   omy Eyes, and Ioudfy no more
a good while.
Liths nteva, hegood, Advice of my Father came
to m~y Mind, and. prrfently his.Predi6*lion, which I en
tion'd in the beginning., of this'Story, vIi. Tlhatifdd
take this j~vl~I b$YCe G&d-IWUs4l,nLat b'k/ me,-'ApdIwod
bqve Leifiire hereater t~ rexie~7 u,0oa Z' vin ngli~le4ihi

are come to pafs: God'js tuiie has. overt;ake'n mie, and
I have-none to help or hear me; I YIj,'&ed the. Voice of
Prov.deqn"e, ihch ha   ercifully pu me in a Pofl~w
of'.Sta~tio~n of' Lfe, Aher'ein Imight have be'en happ'y
arid eafy,; but. I would neither~ fee it, my fel;, or learn,
to. kno'WI the Bliih  bir'o   y   arents;I left them
t-9 UQurnlo~ver my, P~oty,. and nwI am7- leFt to mourn
unde r the~ Confevuencs ofit I ref'ufedc their 4Help and
Af1Tifance, who. wol have liffted mVe into' the World,
adwould have,made every'tlhing.eafy to me, adziw
I, have. Difficulties toft fhL4gl With, too gr~eat for even
N xeilfto fpo4ain           EIne      ~Hlno
Coirt, no    Idv    ~    n,.Xl   &~~cy'd out., Zo~d he m
~q4~vrdJ 9*Z s44gre~tD~es
lwast ~    f   ~a~,i'myaJIit fo tlu
V had, n Be fru  m~ay Years*: ut I  wt~n -to tiny,
urnal.'
7un y2 Hvig" b~ee  fpi~e at!:riefre~  Witt the,
Sleep JJ~ad,-had, and -tb. Fit being entirelY. O0?:
up  n  ~   ~,teFih  ap  froof my Dream ',wasi
vey  rat,~ yetf IIc6m1idre4   p'a th  i o  h  Agu
wNould _re'tuin again ~h  ~   ay, and now   was   y
Tiet  e f'otlithiipg to refrefhanfpotnyfe
a ia~r~g, fqTeae4otl      ih   a&, and fet it upon
ay Tbe, in reach of' my Bed; and. to',take off- the
Chill or aguiih Dipofiti'on ofthle W4~er, J, put aboutJQAt~fFn                                      M 4 i   ~ez.




t~gtler;tlen  ~t,.Me a Pce -of tbe Goat's ~lef4i,
and  roi'd i 6nthe ~aj4 tuto cuild eat- vry little;J-walhed about;, btt 'A very wea'k,-and withal, ver
fadandheay, eated in the Se~n!4 Qf miymiferAble Crndition, &adradin'g the' RetWirn of miy'Dilemper,the next1.
J~a; a~ Nght- I miade,,my Supper. of threeoth
Turtle's EFggs, which I roaled, in.the A flies, and eat,
as we eall] -to' in the, el;a'  this, was the, irft Bit of
M t1hd ever ss'        kiigeven as I~oh
renfmliqr, in MY, )YoeLie
A   Laer  ehad 'een Ir tw#lk but fo Un   my
felt fov-,tA ~c3~d i4ly          rry, the Gtn( for,
Inyxwent-out, without tha't'Qf  wn    u   ltl
lay             nuo,1 and f'at downuo  the Grond -1ooking OUt.p
onI th  Sea, which wvas juff. before me~ad 7eryc4lm
anSmoh    As  i ftere, fome Thouights fitc as tef
9ccuxre~d to, mne
What is, ths.Erha,$a/~vil             a~ef
much!i~h~cc is it Proa4ic'd  a nd w-hat a~adal
t~eter Crqatuses, wlad.tneltUM4n 4ai4bAaI
*henee are.W
S~ure we axe, 41 niAd'e '  fom-ei fqcrt, twe'r, -M.

is that,?
Thep jitgopllpOd' lwi 4ttirall~ Pti is Go hat, si
male it hV      I bt t1hen if -came pOi aeY; ifX!io
hasit4~ l~h' h    qes e4i, al&overns'tlhn
thzCt ad iae~     ~   '        tny have Ivoye
to gurde arin rt  hm
If fo, nothing, -~an. 13 pen. in th  retCruto
hi  orks eith r who~t hi K ow4edge orApoit
on.; and itf~ pothn  )4ippens withP4i ~i 4ppit=Prx,
lhas appoi~nte a~.tl~isto,b&fal me.
Ntigpcurdto myV hoghts to contrad        any~
of thi   ocuins     and thr    're -it reiduponni
with, the.,grzater Force, ~ that -it- muil- needs be, tilat
God hadl appointed, all this to befal me; that I wa~
birought ot4.it~e        ~~~~eb            Dir6,




(88)
on, he having the fole Power, not of me only, but of
every Thing tdat happen'd in the World. Ilnnmediate.
ly it follow'd.....
Why has God dfoe this t     W me. What hve I done t be
thus usd?
My Confcience prefently check'd me in that Enquiry,
as if I had blafphem'd, and methought it fpoke to me like
a Voice; WREICH! dfl thou ask what thou haftdne
Look back upon a dreadful mif-fpent Life, and ask thy
felf wfhat thou htqp not done? Ask, Why is it that thou wert
ot long ago defroyd? Why  oert thou not dro'd n Yarmouth 9oads? Lilled in the fight  beh the Ship was
taken by the sallee Man of War? Devour'd by the wild.
Beafis on the COaft of A frica? Or, drown'd H E RE, when
all the Crew peri h'd but thyjelf  Doft thou ask, What
have I done?
I was ftruck dumb with thefe Refleations, as one aftonifhed, and had not a Ward to fay, no not to anfwer
to my fef, but rofe up penfive and fid, walk'd back to
my-Retreat, and went up ovrf my: Wall, as if I had
'been going to Bed, but my Thoughts were fadly difturb'd, and I had no inclintion to ileep; fo I fat down.
in my Chair, and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now, as the A.pprehenfion of the retumn of my
DEifemper terrifyM  f e very much, itoccurd to my
Thought, that the Bafians take no Phyfick blut their
Tobacco, for almoft all DifAempers -andr  I Iid a Piece
6f a Roll of TobaccQ in one of the Chefs, which was
quite cured,~ anA& biie '-ito thalt was green, and not
quite cured.
I went, dire&ed by Heaven no doubt, for in this.
Cheft I found a Cure both for Soul and Body; I opened the Chefl, and found what I flook'd for, viz. the
Tobaco; and as-the 'few Bbhks I had fav.d layithere,
too, I took out one of' the BiBles which I mentionId
before, and which to this time I had not found Leifure,
or fo much as Inclination to look into; I a y, I took it
out, and brought both that and the Tobacco with me
to the Table.
What Ufe to make of the Tobacco, I knew not, as
to my Diftemper, or whether it was good for it' or no;
bu'ttdrf. feveral- Eperimests with it, as if was re
1ylv'cd




( 8 )
Ablv'd it fhould, hit one Way or other: I firtl took a
Piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it iin my Mouth, which
indeed at firft almoft ftupify'd my Brain, the Tobacco
being green and ftrong, and that I had not been much
us'd to it; then I took Tome and fleeped it an Hour or
two in Rum, and refolv'd to take a Dofe of it when I
lay down; and laftly, I burnt tome upon a Pan of Coals,
and held my Note clofe over the Smoke of it as long
as I could bear it, as well for the Heat as the Virtue
of it, and I held it almoft to Suffocation.
In the interval of this Operation, I took up tlftBible and began to read, but my Head was too much di.
fturb'd with the Tobacco to bear reading, at leafi at that
time; only having open'd the Book cafually, thefirft
Words that occur'd to me were thefe, Call on me in the
Day of Trouble and I will deliver, and thou jhalt glorif
mne.
The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made
fome Impreflion upon my Thoughts at the Time of reading them, tho' not fo much as they did afterwards; for
as for being deliver'd, the Word had no Sound, as I
may fay, to me; the Thing was fo remote, fo impofible in my Apprehenfion of Things, that I began to fay
as the Children of Ifrael did, when they were promis'd
Fleih to eat, Can God fpread a Table in the Wildernefs?
So I began to to fay, Can God himfelf deliver me from
this Place? And as it was not for many Years that any
Hope appear'd, this prevail'd very often upon my
Thoughts: But however, the Words made a great Im.
preflion upon me, and I muted upon them very often.
It grew now late, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, doz'd
my Head fo much, that I inclin'd to feep; fo I left
my Lamp burning in the Cave, left I fhould want any
thing in the Night, and went to Bed; but before I lay
down, I did what I never had done in all myLife, I kneeled down and pray'd to God to fulfil the Promife to me,
that if I call'd upon him in the Day of Trouble, he
would deliver me; after my broken and imperfe& Prayer was over, I drunk the Rum in which I had fleepd
the Tobacco, which was fo ftrong and rank of the Tobacco, that indeed I could fcarce get it down. Immeliatly upon this I went to Bed, and I found prefently it
flew




-Revr up into my. Head violently; butlIfell in'to afouna
Sleep,' And w'aked'n  more till by the Sun it, muft. necefllarily be near Three ' Clock inteAtrnoon the.
next Da~y; nay, to this Hour I am partly of the Opiipion thiat I flept.,all the next Day and Night, and till.
alniofi three the Day after; for othprwifie I knew no t
how I fhOUI4 Iofe A Djay out of mny Reckoninag in the
Dys of te   eek", as it -appeared fome Years after I
bad done; fior iVI had,1loti'it by. cr~n  ne-cxofing,
the Line, I fhourld have, loL;. mnor'e'-har a Dzay, but in,my_
Acco~nt, it was loft, and I ne ver knew x- hich way.
Be that, howeve'r -one way or other, when I awakd
I, found my; feW l ednl refreih'd and my Spirits,
Ieyand chearfil - when Igtu   was fronaer. thanJr was 'the -Day broe  a nd  y Stmc   etr, fo r I,
yvshungry; and in fhoit Ihad, no, Fit the next Day,
btcontinuewd much alter'd for the be tter: this was the
29th.

a~broad, with my Gun, but did not care to travel too
kr: I l~ill'd a. Sea-Eo1WI or -two, fimething like a~
Br~annG~oole&, and, broughttlthem Home, but-vsias not
very forward toaeat themi; fo I eat fome-imore.,of the
Turt1~~~'sEgs. whc were very good:  hsEeig
Irenew'd toe Medicine' Which Ij had fuppofed did ine
god the Day befbrevi the Tobac:co f.iceep'din iguin,
'Qnly ~1Aid not take fo wutch as bekore, Inor did I chew
any of d4e. Leaf; qr hoW. my Head over -the Smoke;
h9e0r pot forl well' the next. Day,, wNhich warthe 1g-9  - 9Y a   )IhPed I fhudhave,been; for I
ha4.   4 itl  f~e; Of the cold Fitt butt iLt. v~;a Dnot
niauh.
7yI/4  I renew'd 'the Medicine all the three ways,
and dozed iny felf with it as' at fiift, and doubled the,
QI~antity which I, dra k.
3.Irifs'd the Fit, for good, and all tho' I, did not,
recover my" full strengt fo  oi  ek   fe:While,
Iathus Faring Stegtm        Thou~ghts runec~e i~lyipn ~~this Scripture, I ill ideliver thee; arid.
InoI4i4ity of my tDeliveraxice lay mnuch Upon:
myMii  in bar of my ever expe6kin  it:But aq
I  a dcuaging my feWf wit  hw  'bo   1ts,




~curd o  nyMind', that, Ipored fo munch upon it
Deliverance from the main Af iaon, that I difrgre
the, Deliverance..I h ad received; and I, was,,as it were-,
made' to` ask-my~ f~ellffu~chb Q,&efions as thele, vk.- Have.
Inot been.4eliver'd~, Pnd wonderfully too, from Sic4 -nefis? From themofl diftre~fs' Cnd-ition thlat could bej
and that was ffrghtftl to~ wie?'And what notice had I
taken of it?1; I-TadI.1dore' my Part,: God had deliver'd me,
hut I had natglorified him: That is. to fay, I had not
own'd and been thankful, fbr tha t as a Dteliverance,4 ancd
how col  ep     greater Deliverance?
Thlis -;oUch'4., &'yAcart very muchj, and, irntudiately
Ik-ner, d dawn- and i8vO ~God Tlks Oa~o~~fr
Reoyrm Y       y S jqknelf
~41Y ~ I  &l~c~n~ng I tqkhe Dib e ad,~n
axn ~, ti. 4c'N   Tan nt I bnan ferioufly torad
iand4 imn~e   Pon my feif to read a while~ every
q4rninlg and every Ni ht, not ty-ing my feel to the
Number,of Chaptrer, but as long, as my Thoughts
flhculd engage me: I t was. not long after I Ikt feriouuly
to thj$ I~k    t~E~~     n   ~~tmr      ~pj and
fincerely affZted with thWckedn-es fS 6my Ypa  Life:
41tee WFiS h#,v 14 ha~oagbt thee to,, Aq~ientqpc,, ra
i~~xwt-uly iun, 01y,                         avh~  a  arp4~bgi~
(4(4 t give ue:~Pe;a   e, whn thap'peni'd provt4tnti yly the vep-y DaPy thbat, ~raig the Sc 6riptur'e', `1
Ontre to                w~e  i  ~ ~~tdaJr~e a4d
-eiteIoo~      *d~th      ykea~rt 4s well a.
my Hands. lifted up to Hepaven, lii ~'I JLa~ of tafy o4
joy, i~ dr~ yf ujt A1ou4,- YCfiOs Dbu$ o  vaid,!fof,tbcu exalted~ 1'ri~mv 4nd -$44om, give-;we Aer
Penance!  ~ht1 c             af), n tet
TIhisva hld      timethtJcudainheru
Senlli~ ot' the- 'Aords, that I prayed -'n, all my bife; for
IJOW I.?raye&d. wirhj.,Senfe 9f';y (,ojPitIQn, 44d ~-wjth,
a trui;sef~rjn  Teo-Ip      one      ti e Eneo
nageentf te Wrd 4(~d  axd 4ornthiq, time,. I
WiY ay~ I   a'tt~a~~o         th t GQ   oudlAp

I




( 91 )
Now I began to conftrue the Words mentioned above, Call on me, and 1 will deliver you, in a different
Senfe from what I had ever done before; for then I had
no Notion of any thing being called Deliverance, but
my being delivered from the Captivity I was in, for
tho' I was indeed at large in the Place, yet the Ifland
was certainly a Prifon to me, and that in the worft
Senfe in the World; but now 4learn' to take it in another Senfe. Now I look'd back- pon my paft Life
with fuch Horror, and my Sins appear'd fo dreadful,
that my Soul fought nothing of God, but Deliverance
from the Load of Guilt that bore down all my Comfort. As for my folitary Life it was nothing; I die
not fo much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it j it was all of no Confideration in Comparifon to this;
and I added this Part here, to hint to whoever fhall
read it, that whenever they come to a true Senfe of
things, they will find Deliverance from Sin a much
greater Bleffing, than Deliverance from Afflition.
But leaving this Part, I return to my Journal.
My Condition began now to be, the' not lefs miferabl as to my Way of living, yet much eafier to my
Mind; and my Thoughts being dire&ed, by a confalnt
reading the Scripture, and praying to God, to things of
higher Nature; I had a great deal of Comfort within,
which till now I knew nothing of: Alfo, as my Health
and Strength return, I beftirr'd my fel to furnifh:my
flf with every thing tat I wanted, and make my way
of living as regular as I could.;
From the 4th of luly to the, Inth I was whiefly empoyed in walking about with my Gun in my Hand,
a little and a little at a time, as a Man that was gathering up his Strength after a Fit of Sickmefs: For it
Is hardly to be imagin'd how low I was, and to what
Wbaknefs I was reducd. The Application vwhich I
made ufe of, was perfedly new,,aidi ehaps what had
never cur'd an Ague before; neitleir can I recommend
it to anyoneto pra&ice, by this Exrpperijnt; and tho'
it did carry off the Fit, yet it rather contributedto
weaken




( 93)
weaken me; for I had frequent Convulfions in my
Nerves and Limbs for fome time.
I learnt from it alb this in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy $eafon, was the moft pernicious
thing to my Health that could be, efpecially in thofe
Rains which came attended with Storms and Hurricanes
of Wind; for as the Rain which came in a dry Seafon
was always molt accompanied with fuch Storms, to i
found that Rain was much more dangerous than the
Rain which fell in September and Otlober.
I had been now in this unhappy Ifland above io
Months; all Poflibility of Deliverance from this Condition feem'd to be entirely taken from me, and I firmly
believed, that no human Shape had ever fet Foot upon that Place. Having now fecur'd my Habitation, as
I thought, fully to my Mind, I had a great Defire to
make a more perfe& Difcovery of the Ilfand, and to fee
what other Productions I might find, which yet I knew
nothing of.
It was the X Sth of -7uly that I began to take a more
particular Survey of the Ifland it lelf: I went up the
Creek firit, where, as I hinted, I brought my Rafts on
Shore. I found, after I came about two Miles up, that
the Tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no
more than a little Brook of running Water, and very
freflh and good; but this being the dry Seafon, there
was hardly any Water in fome Parts of it, at leaft
not enough to run in any Stream, fo as it could be
perceiv'd.
On the Bank of this Brook I found many pleafant
Savana's, or Meadows, plain, fmooth, and cover'd with
Grafs; and on the rifing Parts of them next to the
higher Grounds, where the Water, as it might be fuppoled, never overflowed, I found a great deal of Tobacco, green and growing to a great and very ftrong
Stalk: There were divers other Plants which I had no
Notion of, or UnderfIanding about, and might perhaps have Virtues of their own, which I could not
find out.
I Searched for the Caffava Root, which the Indiauss
in all that Climate make their Bread of, but I could
find




(94)
tnA nb.t& Crhw latge Plants of Aloes, bit, did not
then undeorfand them. I                 JQ w feveraln Sugarranes sb.vild, and tfoti' Vat ofiakivtration, i perfi &. If con.
tenteld niiy ft  With? Dthi f o Difeoveries for this tihe, and
came back mnufing With m      wy feW  hat Courfe I might.take to know the Virtue -and Goodnefis of any of the
Fruits or  lanmts which I fiiould difcover, but could
bring it to no Conclufion; for in fhort, I had made fo
little Ohfervation while I wvas in the Brajils, that I
knew little of the Plants in the Field, at leaft very little
-that mifght 1'rve me to anyj Purpofe now  in my
Dift re4.
The next Day, the r6th, I Went up the fame Way a.
gain, and after going fomething farther 'than 1 had
gone the Day -betre, I found the Brook and the Sa..
vana's began to ceafe, and the Country became more
woody than before.' In this Part I found differnen
Fruits, and particularly~ I found -Melons upon the
Ground in greqa Abundance, and Grapes upon the
Trees; the Vines had lbread" indd  over tht Trees,
and the Clutlers of Grapes were jaftl now 'iirtbeirPrime;
very ripe and jich. This was a fiarprizing Difcovery,
and I was exceeding glad of them;iii but I was warn'd
by my Experience to. eat flaringly ofthem, rem. embring,
that when I was aihore in Barbar, the eating of'Grapes
kill'd feveral of our Eng0F Men who-were Slaves there,
by throwin~g them into Fluxes and Fevers': Bt, I found
an excellent Lfe for thefre Grapes,  and- that was -to cure
or dry them in the Sun, and keep. them as dry'd Grapes
or Raifins are' kept which I thoughit wou'uld bq, as indeed they were, as who'lefome, and as agreeable to eat,,when no Grapes might be h'ad.
I Fpent all that Evening there, and went not back to
mny Haobitation, which by the way wvas the  Night a'
I might fay, I had lain from Home. In the Nigiht utook
4uy firil Contrivance,, and got up into a TIree, where
r ilept well, and the next Morning proceeded upon
i'y Eifcovery, travelingl unear fouIr MlIes, as I might
judge 1y the - Length of the Vally, keeping hill due
orthsrt4  with a ldie& o~nf  j k&iNsn  I6i.th and NErt1~
~i~eoh:ie




(95)
At thle IEnda of thi's March.1 cattide to an Opehn4;
where Ithe Country' fewni'd to defcend t6 ~th  Wef-,a ad.
a little- Sp-ring of frefli Water, Nwhich j ifued ot of the
Side of 'the Hill byi me run the othr Way, that is
du;aff; and the Country perdf     rfi ogen
fc  lurlin, every thnbing in a~d coifanVedr
or Plourili of Spring,~k that it look'd like a planted.
I defcended a little on the Side of that deliciolus
Valily, fiarveying it with a fecret kind of' Pleaf'ure,
(thouIIh mixt with my other affift iig Tboughts ) to
think-t-hat thisw~s' alP mny own, that I was king arAt
Lord of zl this Country indefeafibly, and had a Righ~t
ocf L'Offeffli~n; and if- 2:uuld convey it., I miht have it
in Inheritance, as codipleatly as -any Lord of a.Nan-or
nEgls.I fkiv here A bl,-ndance of Cocoa Trees,
Orange, and Lemon, and Citron Trees; hut all wild.,
and, few &aring any F ruit, at leaft, not then: How..
ever., the greei nLimes. that i gather'd, were not only
pleafant to t-t' but very wholefome;1C and.Jixd their
Juice afterwarlb w,%ith Water, which' unade it very
'wholefome, anid very cool and refirefhiln-&.'
I found now I had Bufinefis enoug h to gather ancl
carry Home; and, I retblved to lay up a Store, as well,of Grapes, as Limes and Lemons, to furnifli my felf for
the wet Sr -,,f6n, wvhich 11 knew wAs approachingIn ord6er to thts, ~ gathefd a great, Heap of,&apes fin
~one Ploace, aqncV' a lefl'er Heap in anither Place, and a
gr~eat i-,ar el oE -Lime!_S ard Lemhons in another. Place;
and-. th ing a fTew of each wvith me, I tr-AveId home..
ard awl r f"'lved to chime again, a~nd bigaBgo
Sa~ck, or- what I clould make, to carry the reat Home.
Accordiingly, heaving Fpent three Days in this jour..
mey, I came Homie (to6 I njuff nowv call my, Tent and
my Cave) but before I got thithber, the Grapes wvere
ffid te Richn -fs of the Fru'it and the Weight of thie
jie' -ha vin~ broken- them, and br uifed tethywr
go  o  iteo    tig, as to teLmesa hey. were
good, but~ i coUld bri ngIut a few.N
The njt     av    1n~~ the  9tb I-went&~ NakhVngibdem, tw       11'I Bag to brig, Hotile mylar~Lt;LLzti W  ~U tz', wiencarnung to* mr-`  FiHap




( 96 3
of Grapes, which were fo rich and fine when I gather'd
them, I found them all fpread abroad, trod to Pieces
and dragg'd about, fome here, Come there, and Abundance eaten and devoured:,by this I concluded there
were fome wildCreatures thereabouts, which had done
this; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found that there was no laying them
up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in a Sack, but
that one Way they would be detroy'd, and the other
Way they would be crufh'd with their own Weight,
I took another Courfe; for I gather'd a large Quantity
of the Grapes, and hung them upon the Out-Branches
of the Trees, that they might cure and dry in the Sun;
and as for the Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many
back as I could well ftand under.
Wlen I came Home from this Journey, I contemplated with great Pleafure the Fruitfulnefs of that Valley, and the Pleafantnefs of the Situation, the Security
from Storms on that Side the Water, and the Wood,
and concluded that I had pitch'd upon a Place to fix my
Abode, which was by far the worft Part of the Country. Upon the whole, I began to confider of removing
my Habitation, and to look out for a Place equally fafe,
as where I now was fituate, if poffible, in that pleafant
fruitful Part of the Ifland.
This Thought run long in my Head, and I was ex.
ceeding fond of it for Iome Time, the Pleafantnefs of the
Place tempting me; but when I came to a nearer View
of it, and to confider that I was now by the Sea-fide,
where it was at leaft poffible that fomething might happen to my Advantage, and that the tlme ill Fate that
brought me hither, might bring fome other unhappy
Wretches to the fame Place; and tho' it was fcarce probable that any fuch thing fliould ever happen, yet to enclofe my felfamong the Hills and Woods, in the Center of the Ifland, was to anticipate my Bondage, and
to render fuch an Affair not only impropable, but impofible; and that therefore I ought not by any Means
to remove.
However, I was fo enamour'd of this Place, that I
fpent much of my Time there for the whole remaining
Part of the Month of Yuly; and tho' upon fecond
ThouhtI




( 97)
Thoughts I refolv'd as above, not to remove, yet t built
nm  a little kind of a Bower, and furrounded it at a
Dillance wtih a ftrong Fence, being a double Hedge,
as high as I could reach, well ftak'd and fill'd between
with BrqJhvwomd; and here I lay very fecure, foimbtims
two or three Nights together, always going over it with
a Ladder, as betore; ib that I tancy'd now I hadlmy
Country-Houfe, and my Sea-Coafi-Houte: And this
Work took me up to the Beginning of' Aguauf.
I had but newly finili'd my Fence, and began to enjoy my Labour, but the Rains came on, and iade me
Itick clofe to my firft Habitation; for tho' I had made
me aTent like the other, with aPiece of aSail, and fpread
it very well; yet I had not the Shelter of a Hill to keep
me from Storms, nor a Cave behind me to retreat into,
when the Rains were extraordinary.
About the Beginning of Augufi as Ifa!i, I had finifhl'1
my Bower, and began to enjoy my felf. The third of
Augufit, found the Grapes I had hung up were perfetly
dry'd, and indeed, were excellent good Raifins ofthe
Sun; fo I began to take them down from the Trees,
and it was very happy tlat I did ob; for the Rains
which followed would have fpoil'd them, and I had loft
the beft Part of my Winter Food; for I had above
two hundred large Bunc ees of them. No fooner had I
taken them all down and carry'd mof -of them Home
to my Cave, but it began to rain; and from thence,
which was the fourteenth of Atguft, it rain'd more or
lets every Day, till the niddle of Otober; and fometimes fo violently, that I could not flir out of my Cave
for feveral Days.
In this Sealbn I was much furpriz'd with the Increare of my Family: I had been concern'd for the Lots
of one of my Cats, who run away from me, or as I
thought had been dead, and I heard no more Tale or
Tidingsof her, till to my Aftoniflment r he came home
about the End of Auguft, with three Kittens. This
was the more ffrange to me, becaufe tho' I had kill'd
a wild Cat, as I call'd it, with my Gun; yet I thought
it was a quite different Kind fiom our Euroean Cats;
yet the young Cats were the fame kind of Houfe-breed
like the old one i and both my Cats being Females, I
F              thought




( 9S   ):thought it very ftrange: But from thefe three Cats, I
i-terwards came to be fl pefter'd with Cas, that I was
forced to kill them like Vermin, or wild Beafs, and to
driVe them from my Houle as much as poflible.
From the fourteenth of Augufl to the twenty fixth,
inceflant Kain, fo that I could not flir, and was now very caretul not to be much wet. In this Confinement
I began to be ftraitned for Food, but venturing out
twice, I one Day kill'd a Goat; and the laft Day, which
was the twenty-fixth found a very large Tortoitf which
tvas a Treat to me, and my Food ivas regulated thus:
leat a Bunch of Railins for my 13reakfait, a Piece of
the Goat's Flell, or of the Turtle, for my Dinner
broil'd; (for to my great Misfortune, I had no VeIfel
to boil or ftew any thing) and two or three of the Turtlc's Eggs fbr my Supper.
During this Confinement in my Cover by the Rain,
I work'd daily two or three Hours at enlarging my
Cave, and by Degrees work'd it on towards one Side,
till I came to the Outfide of the Hill, and made a Door
or Way out, which came beyond my Fence or Wall,
end fo I came in and out this Way: But I was not perfetly eafy at lying fo open; for as I had manag'd myfelf before, I was in a perfef& Enclofure, whereas now
I thought I lay expos'd, and yet I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggeft
Creature that I had yet feen upon the Ifland being a
Goat.
Septenber the thirtieth, I was now come to the unhappy Anniverfary of my Landing. I caft up the Notches on my Pofl, and found I had been on Shore three
hundred and fixty five Days. I kept this Day as a folemn faft, fetting it apart to Religious Exercife, proftrating my felf on the Ground with the molt ferious
Humiliation, confefling my Sins to God, acknowledging his Righteous Judgments upon me, and praying to
himn to have Mercy on me, thro' Jefus Chrif:; and
having not tafred the leaf Refrefliment for twelve
Hours, even till the going down of the Sun, I then eat
a Bisket-Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went to Bed,
finifhing the Day as I began it.
I had all this time obferv'd no Sabbath-Day; for:..... a




( 99 )
as at firft I had no Senfe of Religion upon my)Mind, and.I
had after ibme time omitted to diftinguill the 9, eeks,
by naking a longer Notch than ordinary tor the -abLath-Day, and bf did not really know what any cf the
Days were; but now having cakf up the Days, as above,
I found I had been there a Year; fo I divided it into
Weeks, and let apart every feventh Day for a Sabbath;
tho' I found at the End of my Account I had loft a Day
or two in my Reckoning.
A little after this my Ink began to fail me, and fo [
contented my felftto ul- it more iparingly, and to write
down only the mnoll remarkable Events ofmny Litf, without continuing a daily MI#ewmorandum of other Things.
The rainy >eafon, and the dry Seafon, began now to
appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide them lo,
as to provide ifr them  accordingly. But I bought all
| ny Experience before I had it; and this I am going
to relate, was one of the molt difcouraging Experiments that I made at all. I have mention'd that I had
av'd the few Ears of Barley and Rice which I had ib
furprizingly found fpring up, as I thought, of themetlves, and believe there were about thirty Stalks of
Rice and about twenty ofBarly; and now I thought it
a proper time to Low it after the Rains, the Sun being in
its Southern Polition going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Ground, as well as
I could with my wooden Spade, and dividing it into
two Parts, I iow'd my Grain; but as I was fowing,
it cafually occur'd to my Thoughts, that I would not
low it all at firil, becaule I did not know when was
the proper time for it; {b I fow'd about two thirds
of the Seed, leaving about a Handful of each.
It was a great Comfort to me afterwards, that I did
fo, for not one Grain of that I fow'd this time came to
any thing; for the dry Months following, the Earth having had no Rain after the Seed was Ibwn, it had no
Moilture to afift its Growth, aRd never came up at all,
till the wet Seafon had come again, and then it grew as
if it had been but newly fown.
Finding my firft Seed did not grow, which I eafily
imagin'd was by the Drought, I ibught for a moiAfte
Piece of Ground to make another Trial in, and I dug
F 2                up




( I00    )
up a Piece of Ground near my new Bower, and fow'd
the reft of my Seed in February, a little before the Ver.
nal Equinox; and this having the rainy Months of'March
and April to water it, fprung up very pleafantly, and
yielded a very good Crop; but having Part of the Seed
left only, and not daring to low all that I had yet, I
had but a filall Q.uantity at ladf, my whole Crop not
amounting to above half a Peck of each kind.
But by this Experiment I was made Maifer of my
Bufinefs, and knew exatly when the proper Seafon was
to fbw; and that I might expe& two Seed-times, and
two Harvefts every Year.
While this Corn was growing, I made a little Difcovery, which was of Ufe to me afterwards: As loon as

which was about the Month of November, I made a
Viilt up the Country to my Bower, where tho' I had
not been tome Months, yet I found all things jufa as I
left them. The Circle or double Hedge that I had
made, was not only firm  and entire, but the Stakes
which I had cut off of fomeTrees that grew thereabouts,
were all fhot out, and grown with long Branches, as
much as a Willow.Tree ufually fhoots the firfl Year after lopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to
call it, that thefe Stakes were cut from.  I was fuirpriz'd, and yet very well pleas'd, to fee the young
Trees grow; and I prun'd them, and led them up to
grow as much alike as I could, and it is fcarce credible
how beautifuil a Figure they grew into in three Years;
fo that tho' the Hedge made a Circle of about twenty
aive Yards in Diameter, yet the Trees, for Luch I might
now call them, loon cover'd it; and it was a compleat
Shade, fuflicient to lodge under all the dry Seafon.
This nmade me refolve to cut fome more Stakes, and
make me a Hedge like this in a Semicircle round my
Wall, I mcan that of my firft Dwelling, which I did;
and placing the Trees or Stakes in a double Row,
at about eight Yards diflance from my firfI Fence, they
grew prefently, ard were at firfl a fine Cover to my
Habitation, and afterward ferv'd for a Defence alfo, as
I flall obierve in its Order.


I




I


( II )


I found now, that the Seafons of the Year might fge
nerally be divided, not into Summer and Wintefr, as in
Europe; but into the rainy Seafons, and the dry Seafons,
which were generally thus:
I    HalfFebruary,,
Mal h         the E~dimx.
Half  I a    Raiy, the     being then on or neapril,
Half rti, )
ne,    Dry, tihe San being then to the NSrt5
of the Line.
Half Agrfti,
Halft &g/7,7
September,> Rain, the San being then come back,
Half Ockober,
Hal f Ocober,
November,   Dry, the   n being then to the
eemr,          Sout of the Line.
_Ianuary,
Half February,
The rainy Seafon fometimes held longer or fhorter,
as the Winds happen'd to blow; but this was the general Obfervation I made. After I had found, by Experience, the ill Confequence of being abroad in the
Rain, I took Care to furniih my fel wvith Provifions before-hand, that I might not be oblig'd to go out; and
I fat within Doors as much as poiTible during the wet
Months.
In this Time I found much Employment, (and very
fuitable alfo to the Time) for I found great Occafion
of many things which I had no way to furnifh my
felf with, but by hard Labour and conflant Application; particularly, I tried many Ways to make my felt
a Basket, but all the Twigs I could get for the Purpole
provld fo brittle, that they would do nothing. ivt
prbv'd of excellent Advantage to me now, that when
I was a Boy, I ufed to take great Delight in flanding at
P3                      a




( 102)
*a Bsket-maler' in the Town where my Father liv'd, to,
ice them make their Wicker-ware; and being as Boys
ufually are, very officious to help, and a great Obitrver of the Manner how they work'd thole things,
and ibme:imes lending a Hand, I had by this means
full Knowledge of the Methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the Materials; when it came into my Mind,
thiat the Twigs of that Tree from whence I cut my
Stakes that grew, might poflibly be as tough as the,SallcTs, and WlTills, and Ofters in England, and I re.
folv'd to try.
Accordingly the next Day I went to my CountryHoufe, as 1 call'd it, and cutting fome of the fmaller
Twigs, I found them to my Purpofe as much as I could
defire; whereupon I came the next time prepar'd with
a Hatchet to cut dcwn a Quantity, which I foon found,
for there was great Plenty of' them: Thefe I Let up to
dry within my Circle or Hedge, and when they were
fit for Ufe, I carried them to my Cave; and here during the next Seafon, I employ'd my ftlf in making, as
well as I cculd, a great many Baskets, both to carry
Fa'th, or to carry or lay up any thing as I had occafion;
and tho' i did not finitih them very handfomely, yet I
made them fuffciently ferviceable for my Purpofe; and
thus afterwards I took Care never to be without them
and as my Wicker-ware decayed, I made more, efpecially
I made ftrong deep Baskets to place my Corn in, inflead of Sacks, when I fhould come to have any Quan.
tity of it.
Having mafler'd this Diffculty, and employ'd a
world of Time about it, I beffirr'd my felf to fee, if pop
ible, how to fupply two Wants. I had no Veffels to,
bold any thing that was Liquid, except two Runlets
which were almof full of Rum, and fome Glafs Bottles,
fome of the common Size, and others which were CafeBottles fquare, for the holding of Waters, Spirits, Erc.
I had not fo muwh as a Pot to boilany thing in, except a
great Kettle which I fav'd out of the Ship, and which
was too big for fuch Ufes as I defir'd it for, viz. to make
Broth, and flew a Bit of Meat by it felf. The fecond
Tbing I would fain have had, was a Tobacco-Pipe; but
iA




( 1o3 )
it was impofible to me to make one; however I fbond
a Contrivance for that too at laft.
I employ'd my elf in planting my fecond Rows of
Stakes or Piles, and in this Wicker working all the Sum1
mer, or dry Seafon, when another Butinels took nme up
more Time than it could be iimagin'd I could Ipare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great Mlind to fee
the whole Piland, and that I had travelled up the Brook,
and fo on to where I built mny Bower, and where I had
an Opening quite to the Sea on the other Side of the
Ifland. 1 now refilved to travel quite crofs to the Seafhore on that Side: So taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and
my Dbg, and a larger Q.uantity of Powder and Shot than
utual, with two Bisket-Cakes, and a great Bunch of
Raifins in my Pouch for my Store, I began my Joiurney. When I had pafs'd the Vale where my Bower
ftood, as above, I came within View of the Sea, to the
Weft, and it being a very clear Day, I fairly deflricd
Land, whether an Inand or a Continent, 1 could nottell; but it lay very high, extending from the Weji to
the W. S. W. at a very great Diflance; by my Guy-Is it
could not be lefs than fifteen or twenty Leagues off.
I could not tell what Part of the World this miglht
be, otherwife than that I knew it mull be Fart of Ame-.
rica i and as I conwluded by all my Obfervations, inutiti
be near the Spanifi) Dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by Savages, where if I fhould have landed, I
had been in a worle Condition than I was now; and
therefre I acquiefced in the Difpofitions of Providence,
which I began now to own, and to believe, order'd every thing for the beft; I fay, I quieted my Mind with
this, alnd left affliiing my felt with fruithlels Wiflies
of being there.
Befides, after forne Paufe upon this Affair, I confider'd, that if this Land was the SpaniJh Coaft, 1 fhould
certainly, one Time or other, fee fome Velel pafs or
re-pafs one Way or other; but if not, then it was the
&aave Coafa between the Spanij Country and Brafis,
which were indeed the worft oftSvages; for they are:

evoux ac thl,tia ha  Bodwies that fal into their Hands, t




( o04 )
With there Confiderations I walk'd very leifurely
forward. I found that Side of the Ifland where I now
was, much pleafanter than mine, the open or Savanna
Fields \weet, adorn'd with Flowers and Grafs, and full
ot very fine Woods. I jaw Abundance of Parrots, and
fain I would have caught one, it poflible, to have kept
it to be tale, and taught it to fpeak to me. I did, afttr tome Pains taking, catch a young Parrot, for I
knock'd it down with a Stick, and having recover'd it,
I brought it home; but it was fome Years before I
could make him fpeak: However, at lafi I taught him
to call me by my Name very familiarly: But'the Accident that tbllow'd, tho' it be a Trifle, will be very
diverting in its Place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey: I
found in the low Grounds, Hares, as I thought them
to be, and Foxes, but they differ'd greatly from all the
other Kinds I had met with; nor could 1 fatisfy my felf
to eat them, tho' I killd feveral: But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no Want of Food, and of that
which was very good too; efpecially thefe three Sorts,
Vit. Goats, Pidgeons, and I urtle or Tortoife; which,
added to my Grapes, Leaden-HaIl Market could not
have furnifh'd a Table better than I, in Proportion to
the Companr; and tho' my Cafe was deplorable enough,
yet I had great Caule for Thankfulnefs, that I was not
driven to any Extremities for Food; but rather Plenty,
even to Dainties.
I never travelled in this Journey above two Miles
outright in a Day, or thereabouts; but I took To many
Turns and Returns to fle what Difcoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the Place where
I refolv'd to fit down for all Night; and then I either
repos'd my felf in a Tree, or furfounded my felf with
a Row of Stakes fet upright in the Ground, either from
one Tree to another, or lb as no wild Creature could
come at me, without waking me.
As foon as I came to the Sea-Shore, I was furprized
to fee that I had taken up my Lot on the worft Side of
the lfland; for here indeed the Shore was cover'd with
innumerable Turtles, whereas on the other Side I had
Jound but three in a Year and half. Here was alfo an
infinit




( I05 )
infinite Number of Fowls of many Kinds, fome of which
I had not feen before, and many of them very good
Meat; but lich as I knew not the Names of, except
thofe call'd Penguins.
I could have fhot as many as I pleated, but was very
fparing of my Powder and Shot; and therefore had
more Mind to kill a She-Goat, if I could, which I
could better feed on: And tho' there were many Goats
here more than on the other Side the Ifland, yet it was
with much more Difficulty that I could come near
them, the Country being flat and even, and they iawv
me much fooner than when I was on the Hills.
I confefs this Side of the Country was much pleafanter than mine, but yet I had not the leafi Inclination
to remove; for as I was fixed in my Habitation, it became natural to me, and I feem'd all the while I was
here, to be as it were upon a Journey, and from Home:
However, I travelI'd along the Shore of the Sea, towards the Eafl, I fuppofe about twelve Miles; and then
letting up a great Pole upon the Shore for a Mark, I
concluded I would go Home again; and that the next
Journey I took, fhould be on the other Side of the Ifland,
Eafl fi-om my Dwellirg, and fo round, till I came to my
'Por again. Of which in its Place.
I took another Way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could eafily keep all the Ifland fo much in
my View, that I could not mifs finding my firft Dwelling by viewing the Country; but I found my felf mifftaken; for being come about two or three Miles, I found
my felf defcended into a very large Valley; but fo furrounded with Hills, and thofe Hills covered with
Woods, that I could not fee which was my Way by any
Direcion but that of the Sun, nor even then, unlefs I
knew very well the Pofition of the Sun at that Time oi
the Day.
It happen'd, to my farther Misfortune, that the
Weather prov'd hazey for three or four Days, while I
was in this Valley; and not being able to fee the Sun, I
wander'd about very uncomfortably, and at laft waX
obliged to find out the Sea-Side, lovk for my Poft, and;
come back the Iame Way I went; and then by eafy
Journeys I turn'd homeward, the Wtather being ex*
F 5               ceeding




( Io6 )
ceiding hot, and mi Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, aidl
other Things very heavy.
In this Journey my Dog. fHpriz'd a young Kid, and
feiz'd upon it, and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and fav'd it alive from the Dog,; I had a
great Mind to bring it home; if I could; for I had often
been muting, whether it might not be poflble to get
a Kid or two, and o raife a Breed of tame Goats, which
might fupply me when my Powder and Shot fhould be
fpent.
I made a Collar to this little Creature, and wiith a
String which I made of fome Rope-Yarn which I always carried about me, I led him along, tho' with fome
Difficulty, till I came to my Bower, and there I enclos'd
him, and left him; for I was very impatient to be at
Home, from whence I had been abfent above a Month.
I cannot exprefs what a Satisfa&ion it was to me, to
come into my old Hutch, and lie down in my Hammock-Bed: This little wandring Journey, without fettled Place of Abode, had been fo unpleafant to me, that
my own Houfe, as I call'd it to my felf, was a perfef
Settlement to me, compar'd to that; and it render'd
every thing about me fo comfortable, that I refolv'd I
would never go a great Way from it again, while it
K tould be my Lot to flay on the fland.
I.repos'd my felf here a Week, to reft and regale my
felf after my long Journey; during which, moft of the
Time.was taken up in the weighty Affair of making a
Cage:for my Poll, who began now to be a meer Domefick, and to be mighty well acquainted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor Kid, which I had
pent in within my little Circle, and refolv'd to go and
itch it Home, or give it fome Food; accordingly t
Went, and foutd it where I left it; for indeed it could
not get out, but was almoft ftarv'd for want of Food _
f went and cut Boughs of Trees, and Branches of fuch.
Shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and having,
ted it, I ty'd it as I did before, to lead it away; but it
was fo tame with, being htungry, that I bad no need to
have ty'd it; for it follow'd me like a Dog; and as I
continually fed it, the Crature became fo loving, fo,
Ient.e, and fo fond, that it became from that time one




o~f'y,VDoruepticks aOf% and would neVer leave me r
terwards.
The rainy Seafbn of the Aqtuaml EquinoX was nowy
comec, and I kept the joth of Sep~temtber in the lI~me 1Plenin manner as befbre, being the Armiverfary of- my
Landing on the- Ifland, having now been. there twG,
Years, and rno more Profpe&k ot -bein8 deliver'd than the
firil Day I came~ there. I I'pent the whole Day in hum.1F

derfixl Mercies which my folitIary Condition was attended -with,, and without which it might have b&en infinitely more mife-rabie.. I gave humble aisd h earty Thanksthat God had been pleafed: to difcover to me, even that,
it was~ poflible I might, he more happy in, this. folitary
Condition, than I thould have been iii a Liberty of
Society, and in all the Plealfurps of the World. That~
1He could fially make up to me- the De~(iciences of my
folIitary State, and the want of'Huwrnat Soziety, by his
Prefence, a~nd the Cgimmnunic~tion of' hisI Grace to my'
Soul, ftipportingrg. comforig  and 'encotuaging, me tro,
depend uipon his Provid-ence here, atid hope ~for hisEternal Pi-efence hereafter.
It was now that 1 began fenfibly to feel how much

We Circuaiflan~ces than the w~icked, curfedI abotrinab1c
Life I led all Ithe pail Part, of my, Days,; and, npw hav-ring changed bpth~ my SQrrow-s,,n-4.   Joi jy!very
Defires ahxir'd, my Affe,4iops chaiiged thleir Gtuas`,:nd,
my'D Deig    were, pvC&4biy, n:W4~ &towi Nyhat thley
we re a t irf& comip,1,  or indeed fov tjq Two Yea Spail,
B.efore, as.-I walk'd about., either on myHti~tiV  or
~r iewtg he  ottr, te Anguith. of moy Soul 4t my
Cod~inwol bek   u  pon,mt o n a ft,4,dden,, an&~
XUiy Very, Il-ert w'o~ld ~die -wVthin- Mf, to thjio~~f
VV0045. X' Noi4Mntaia   ic-PheDfars" I iasin;A I d howr
IbI'.      'I'lolts, of the qcc~nai. a n, uinihabited~ W41dvrne~'s~  ih
"fit             Infiv h niidft of ~heeyeat4.~ Cnmpe
ifIirq SoiQ my  ina this wouud brc,*k out vUpoum ae" liIelta
Stvadmatke mewring myHands, and weep, likaa. Ch~ild  $on"Cetilmcs -it Nyu~,id take Inc in. tb h id




( io8 )
of my Work, and I would immediately fit down and
figb, and look upon the Ground for an Hour or two to,gether; and this was fill worfe to to me; for if I could
Lturlt out into Tears, or vent my felt by Words, it
would go off, and the Grief having exhaufted it felf,
would abate.
But now   I began to exercife my felf with new'
Thoughts; I daily read the Word of God, and apply'd
all the Comforts of itto my prefent State. One Morn.
ing being very fad, I opened the Bible upon thefe Words,
I will never, never leave thee, nr fjrfake thee; immediately it occur'd, that there Words were to me, why
elie ihould they be direted in fuch axManner, juft at
the Moment when I was mourning over my Condition,
as one forfaken of God and Man? Well then, faid I,
it God does not forfake me, of what ill Confequence
can it be, or what matters it, tho' the World fhould
all forfake me; feeing on the other Hand, ifI had all
the World, and fhould lofe theFavour and Blefirng of
God, there would Ie no Comparifon in the Lofs.
From this Moment I began to conclude in my Mind,
that it was potible for me to be more happy in this forfaken, bilitary Condition, than it was probable I fhould
have eVer been in any other particularState in theWorld;
and with this Thought I was going to give Thanks
to God for bringing me to this Place.
I know not what it was, but fomething hockkd amy
Mind at that Thought, and I durft not fpeak the Words:
Blow canft thou be fuch an Hypocrite (faid I, even audihby) to. pretend to be thankful for a Condition, which
however thou may'ft endeavour to be contented with,
thou wouldft rather pray heartily to be delivered from;
o I ftopt there: But tho' I could not fay, I thank'd God
for being there; yet I fincerely gave Thanks to God
for opening my Eyes, by whatever affliting Providences,
to fee the former Condition of my Life, and to mourn
fot my Wckednefs, and- repent. I never open'd the
ible or ihut it, by my very Soul within me blefs'd God
1or dire&ing my Friend in England, without any Order of mine, to pack it up among my Goods; and for
aflifting me afterwards to fave it out of the Wreck of
te Ship.                                   h




( 109 )
Thus, and in this Difpofition of Mind, I began my
third Year; and tho' I have not given the Reader the
Trouble of fo particular an Account of my Works this
Year as the firlt; yet in general it may be obferv'd, that
I was very feldom idle; but having regularly divided
my Time according to the feveral daily Employments
that were before me; fuch as, Firfi, my Duty to God,
and the reading Scriptures, which I contfantly fet apart
ibmos time for, thrice every Day. Secondly, The going
Abroad with my Gun for Food, which generally took
me up three Hours in every Morning, when it did not
Rain. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, prefervilig and
cooking what I had kili'd or catch'd for my Supply;
thefe took up great Part of the Day: Alfo it is to be
confidered, that the Middle of the Day when the Sun
was in the Zenith, the Violence of the Heat was too
great to ftir out; fo that about four Hours in the Evening was all the time I could be fuppofed to work in;
with this Exceptiolln, that fometimes I changed myHours
of Hunting and Working, and went to Work in the
Morning, and Abroad with my Gun in the After.
noon,
To this fhort time allow'd for Labour, I defire may
be added the exceeding Laborioufnefs of my Work, the
mr.ny Hours which for want of Tools, want of Help,
and want of Skill, every thing I did, took up out of my
Time: -For Example, I was full two and forty Days
making me a Board for a long Shelf, which I wanted in
my Cave; whereas two Sawyers with their Tools, and
Saw-Pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame
Tree in half a Day.
My Cafe was this; it was to be a large Tree which
was to be cut down, becaufe ny Board was to' be a
broad one. This Tree I was three Days a cutting
down, and two more cutting offthe Boughs, and reducing it to a Log, or Piece of Timber. With inexpreffible hacking and hewing I reduced both the Sides of it
into Chips, till it begun to be light enough to move;
then I turn'd it, and made one Side of it finooth, and
flat, as a Board from End. to End; then turning that
fide downward, cut the other fide, till I brought the
Plank to be about three Inches thick, and fiooth on both
Sides




:;.( II0 )
Sides. Any one may judge the Labour of my Hands in
fuch a Piece of Work; but Labour and Patience carry'd
nle thro' that, and many other things: I only obferve
this in particular, to hew the Reafon why to much of
my Time went away with fo little Work, vi. that
what might be a little to be done with Help and Tools,
was a valt Labour, and requir'd a prodigious time to do
alone, and by land.
But notwithlanding this, with Patience and Labour
I went thro' many things, and indeed every thing that
my Circumalnces made neceffary to me to do, as will
appear by what follows.
1 was now in the Months of November and December,
expefting my Crop of Barley and Rice. The Ground
I had manur'd or dug up for them was not great; for
as I obferv'd, my Seed of each was not above the Quantity of half a Peck; for I had loft one whole Crop by
fowing in the dry Seabon; but now my Crop promis'd
very well, when on a fudden I found I was in Danger
of lofingit all again by Enemies of feveral Sorts, which
it was fcarce poffible to keep from it; as firit, the Goats,
and wild Creatures which I call'd Hares, who tafling
the Sweetnefs of the Blade, lay in it Night and Day,
as ibon as it camup, and eat it fo clofe, that it could
get no time to fhoot up into Stalk.
This I faw no Remedy for, but by making an Enclo* fre about it with a Hedge, which I did with a great
4teal of Toil and the more, becaufe it requir'd a grea4
dea of Speed; the Creatures daily fpoilipg my Co rn
HRowever, as my Arable Land was but finall, fuited to
my Crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three
Weeks time; and ihooting fbme-of the Creatures in the
tay-time, I fet my Dog to guard it in the Night, ty*
f   ng him up;to a Stake at the Gate, where he would itand
and barkall Night long; fo in a little time thmee Enemies
frfook the: Place, ai te e'Corn grew very frong an4
yleU, and bean'to ripen apace.
3But asthe BaAs ruined me before, while my Corn
wat in the:Blade, fo the Birds were as liky to -ruin
me now, when it was in the Eart; for.giog.along by
the Place to fee ow it tlirove, I faw Imy little Crop
firr-waunde  t^4; k*   g btw sfl^^.  pOt- fw 4: alFy,,Sorts,




( III )
Serts, who flood as it were watching till I ihofuld te
gone. I immediately let fly among them (for I always
bad m'y Gun with me.) I had no f6oner fhot, butthere
role up a little Cloud of Fowls, which I had not feen
at all, from among the Corn it fel.
This touch'd me fenlibly, for I forefaw, that in a
few Days they would devour all my Hopes, that I
fhould be farv'd, and never be able to raiie a Crop
at all, and whatto do I could not tell: However, Irefolv'd not to lole my Corn, ifpoifible, tho' I fiould
watch it Night and Day, In the firft Place, I went among it to lee what Damage was already done, and
found they had fpoil'd a good deal of it; but that as it
was yet too green for them, the lots was not o great,
but that the remainder was like to be a good Crop if
it could be fdv'd.
I flaid by it to load my Gun, and then coming away
I could eafily fee the Thieves fitting upon all the Tiees
about ne, as if they only waited till I was gone away,
and the Event proved it to be fo; for as I walk'd off as,
if I was gone,  was no ifoner out of their Sight, but
they dropt down one by one into the Corn again. I
was fo provok'd, that I could not havy Patience to flay
till more came on, knowing that            at they
eat now, was, as it mightbe
in the Confcquenze; but comin
fired again, and kili'd three ofthe
wifh'd for; fo I took them up, and ferv'  em as
fcrve notorious Thieves in England, ( vi ) Hanged
them in Chains for a Terror to others. It is impoffihle
to imagine almoft, that this fhould have fuch an Effeas it had; for the Fowls would not only not come at
the Corn, but in fhort they forfook all that Part of the
Ifland, and I could never fee a Bird near the Place asi
long as my Scare-Crows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you. may be fure and about
the latter End of Dlecember, which was our fecond Hap
veil ofthe Year, I reaped my Crop.
I was fadly put to it for a Scythe or. a Sickle to cute
it down, and all I could do was no make one as well
as I could out of or e of the broad Swords or Cutlafles,
which I fav'd among  e Ar.a ou.t of the Ship. However




(  '2  )


ever, as my firil Crop was but fmall, I had no great
Difficulty to cut itidown: In fhort, I reap'd it my
way, for I cut nothing off but the Ears, and carry'd it
away in a great Basket which I had made, and ft rubb'd
it out with my Hands: And at the End of all my Harveiling, I found that out of my half Peck of Seed, I had
near two Bufhels of Rice, and above two Bufhels and a
half of Barley, that is to fay, by my Guefa for I had no
Meafure at that time.
However, this was a great Encouragement to me;
and I forefaw that in time, it would pleafe God to ftpply me with Bread: And yet here I was perplex'd again, for I neither knew how to grind or make Meal of
my Corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor
if made into Meal, how to make Bread of it; and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. Thefe
things being added to my Defire of having a good
Quantity for Store, and to fecure a conftant supply, I
refolv'd not to tafte any of this Crop, but to preferve it
all for Seed againft the next Seafon, and in the mean time
to employ all my Study and Hours of working to ac.
comnplifh this great Work of providing my felf with Coin
and Brc~
'd  that now I work'd for my
'ldenerful, and what I believe few.:74Kclh upon, (vii.)the lirange Multhingi eceTrar; in the Providing,ProducCuring,  refing, Making and Finifhing this one
Article of Bread.
I that was reduced to a meer State of Nature, found
this to be my daily Difcouragement, and was made
more and more fenfible of it every Hour, even after
^   bI got the firil handful of Seed-Corn, which, as I
have faid, came up unexpe&edly, and indeed to a Surprize.
Firif, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no Spade
or Shovel to dig it. Well this I conquer'd, by making
a wooden Spade, as I obferved before; but this did my
Work but in a wooden Manner; and tho' it coil me a
great many Days to make it, yet.for want of Iron it not
only wore out the fooner, but made my Work the harder, and made it be perform'd much worfe,
How



( I3 )
However, this I bore with too, and wascontent to work
it out with Patience, apd bear with the Badnefs of the
Performance. When the Corn was tow'd, I had no
Harrow, but was forced to go over it my iflt; and drag a
great heavy Bough of ai Tree over it, to fcratch the Earth
as it may be calid, rather than Rake or Harrow it.
'' hen it was growing and grown, I have obferv'd already how many things i wanted, to fence it, fecure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it Home, thrafh, part
it tiom the Chaff, and live it. Then I wanted a Mill
to grind it, Sieves to drefs it, Yeaft and Salt to make it
into Bread, and an Oven to bake it; and all thefe
things I did without, as fhArl be obferved  and yet
the Corn was an ineftimable Comfort and Advantage to
me too. But all this as I laid, made every thing laborious
and tedious to me, but that there was no Help fotr neitler was my time lb much Lots to me, becaufe I had
divided it, a certain Part of it was every Day appointed to the'e Works; and as I refolv'd to ufe none of the
Corn fbr Bread till I had a greater (Quantity by me, I
had the next fix Months to apply my felf wholly by Labour and Invention to furnilh my felf with Utenfils
proper for the performing all the Operations neceffary
fbr the making the Corn (when I         '     my
But firt, I was to prepare mor
Seed enough to low above an A
I did this, I had a Week's Work at leaft   I
Spade, which when it was done, was but a forry one
indeed, and very heavy, and requir'd double Labour to
work with it; however I went thro' that, and fow'd
my Seed in two large flat Pieces of Ground, as near
my Houfe as I could find them to my Mind, and fenc'd
them in with a good Hedge, the -Stakes of which were
all cut of that Wood which I had fet before, which I
knew would grow, fi that in one Year's time I knew I
fliould have a Quick or Living Hedge, that would want
but little Repair. This work was not bo little as to
take me up lefs than three Months, becaufe great Part
of that time was of the wet Seaibn, when I could not
go abroad.


Within




( I4 )


Within Door, that is, when it rained, and I cour3
not go out, I found Employment on the following Occafions, always obferving, that all the while I was at
Work, I diverted my felt with talking:to my Parrot,
and teaching him to Speak; and I quickly learned him
to know his own Name, and at lai to fpeak it out
pretty loud, P O L L, which was the firft Word I ever
heard fpolen-in the Ifland by any Mouth but my own.
This therefore was not my Work, but an Affiftant to
my Work; for now, as I faid, I had a great Employment
upon my Hans, as follows, (vit.) I had long ftudy'd, by
fome Means or other, to make my felf obmn EarthenVetfls, which indeed I wanted forely, but knew not where
to come at them: However, confidering the Heat of the
Climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any
fuch Clay, I might botchb up fome fuch Pot, as might,
being dry'd in the Sun, be hard enough, and firong
enough to bear handling, and to hold any Thing that
was dry, and required to be kept fo; and as this was
necellary in the preparing Corn, Meal, 'c. which was
the Thing I was upon, I refolved to make fome as large
as I could, and fit, only to fand like Jars to hold what
fhould be put into them,
It would      he Reader pity me, or rather laugh
at                 y aukward Ways I took to raife
milhapen ugly Things I made,
i in, and how many fell out, the
iifF enough to bear its own Weight;
ow many craek'd by the over violent Heat of the Sunbeing let out too haflily; and how nany fell in Pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dry'd; and in a Word, how after having laboured hard
t find the Clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home and work it, I could not make above two large
Earthen ugly things, I cannot call them Jars, in about
two Months Labour.
However, as the Sun bake4 thefe two very dry and,
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them down,
again in two great Wicker-Baskets, which I had made.
on purpofe forthem, that they;might pot break-; and.
as between the Pot and the Basket there wasna little
ro.o1




( I5 )
room to fpare, I ftuf'd it full of the Rice an Barlejy
Straw, and thefe two Pots being to itand always dry, I
thought would hold my dry Corn, and perhaps th,
Meal when the Corn was bruitid.
Thlo' I mifcarried fo much in my Defign for large
Pots, yet I made feveral fialler things with better Sue.
cefs; fuch as little round Pots, flat Difhes, Fitchers,
and Pipkins, and any thing my Hand turn'd to, and
the Heatof the Sun bak'd them firanpely hard.
But all this would not anfwer my End, which was
toget an Earthen Pot to hold what was Liquid, and
bear the Fire, which none of thefe could do. It happen'd after fome time, making a pretty large Fire for
cooking my Meat, when I went to put it out after I
had done with it, I found a broken Piece of one of my
Earthen-ware Veffels in the Fire, burnt as hard as a
Stone, and red asa Tile. I was agreeably furpriz'd to
fee it, and laid to my felf, that certainly they might
be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This fet me to ftudying how to order my Fire, fo as
to make it burn me rome Pots. I had no Notion of a
"Kiln, fuch as the Potters burn in, or of glazing them
with Lead, tho' I had fome Lead to doit with; but I
plac'd three large Pipkins, and two or three Pots in a
Pile one upon another, and plac'i my Fire-wood all
round it with a great Heap of Etbersunder them;
I ply'd the Fire with frelh Fuel round the Outfide, and
upon the Top, till I faw the Pots in the Infide red hot
quite thro', and obferved that they did not crack at all;
when I faw them clear red, I let them ftand in that
Heat about 5 or 6 Hours, till I found one of them, tho'
it did not crack, did melt or run, for the Sand which
was mix'd with the Clay melted by the Violence of the
Heat, and would have run into Glafs if I had gone on;
fo I flack'd my Fire gradually, till the Pots-began to abate ofthe red Colour, and watching them all Night,
that I Might  ot let the Fire abate to faft, in the Mornilg I had three very good, I will not fay handiome Pipkins, and two 9ther Earthen Pots, as hard burnt as
could be defir'd; and one of them  perfcftly glaz'd:
with the Running of the Sand.
An4




( Ix6 )
After this Experiment, I need not fay that I wanted
no fort of Earthen Ware for my Ufe; but I muff needs
fay, as to the Shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may fuppofe, when I had no Way of
nlaking them, but as the Children make Dirt-Pies, or as
a Woman would make Pies that never learnt to raife
Pafte.
No Joy at a Thing of to mean a Nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an Earthen
Pot that would bear the Fire; and I had hardly Patience to flay till they were cold, before I fet one upon
the Fire again, with obme Water in it, to boil me fome
Meat, which I did admirably well; and with a Piece
of a Kid I made fome very good Broth, tho' I wanted
Oatmeal, and feveral other Ingredients requifite to make
it ~o good as I would have had it been.
My next Concern was, to get me a Stone-Mortar
to flamp or beat Come Corn in; for as to the Mill, there
was no Thought at arriving to that Perfeftion ofArt,
with one Pair of Hands. To fupply this Want I was
at a great Lofs; for of all Trades in the World I was as
perfe&ly unqualified for a Stone.Cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any Tools to go about it with.
I fpent many a Day to find out a great Stone big enough
to cut hollow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could
find none at all, exwpt what was in the folid Rock, and
which I had no Way to dig or cut out; nor indeed
were the Rocks in the fl1and ofHardnefs fufficient, but
were all of a fandy crumbling Stone, which would neither bear the Weight of a heavy Peftle, or would break
the Corn without filling it with Sand: So after a great
deal of Time loll in fearching for a Stone, I gave it
over, and refolv'd too look out a great Block of hard
Wood, which I found indeed much eafier; and getting
one as big as I had Strength to fir, I rounded it, and
form'd it on the Outfide with my Axe and Hatchet, and
then with the Help of Fire and infinite Labour, made
a hollow Place in it, as the Indians in Brafil make their
Cantes. After this, I made a great heavy PeRle or
Beater, of the Wood call'd the Iron-Wood, and this I
prepared and laid by againft I had my next Crop of
Corn,




( I"7)
Corn, when I propos'd to my felf to grind, or rather
pound my Corn into Meal to make my Bread.
1My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or Searfe, to
drefs my Meal, and to part it from the Bran and the
Husk, without which I did not fee it poflible I could
have any Bread. This was a molt difficult Thing, io
much as but to think on; for to be fure I had nothing
like the neceffary Thing to make it with; I mean fine
thin Canvas, or Stuff to fearch the Meal through. And
here I was at a full Stop for many Months; nor did I
really know what to do; Linnen I had none left, but
what was meer Rags; I had Goats Hair, but neither
knew I how to weave it or fpin it; and had I known
how, here was no Tools to work it with; all the Remedy that I found for this, was, That at lafl I did remember I had among the Seamens Cloaths which were
fav'd out of the Ship, fomeNeckcloaths of Callicoe or
MIuflin; and with fome Pieces of there I made three
fmall Sieves, but proper enough for the Work; and thus
I made lhift for fome Years; how I did afterwards, I
fliall fhew in its Place.
The baking Part was the next thing to be confider'd,
and  ^ v I Ihould make Bread when I came to have
Corn; or firft I had no Yeafh: As to that Part, as
thereX is no fupplying the Want, fo I did not concern
nyf'elf much about it: But for an Oven, I was indeed
in great Pain. At length I found out an Experiment
for that alto, which was this; I made fome Earthen
Veffels very broad, but not deep; that is to fay, about
two Foot Diameter, and not above nine Inches deep;
thefe I burnt in the Fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a
great Fire upon my Hearth, which I had pav'd with
ibmne fquare Tiles of my own making and burning alfo;
but I fhould not call them fquare.
When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward upon this
Hearth, fb as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lye, till the Hearth was very hot; then fweeping away
all the Embers, I fet down my Loaf, or Loaves, and
whelming down the Earthen Pot updn them, drew the
Embers all round the Outfide of the Pot, to keep in,
and




( uS )
inda add to the Heat; and thus, as well as in the Left
Oven in the World, I bak'd my Barley-Loaves, and became in little time a meer Paftry-Cook into the- Bargain; fbr I made my felffeveral Cakes of the Rice, and
Puddings; indeed I made no Pies, neither had I any
thing to put into them, iuppofing I had, except the
Flefl either of Fowls or Goats.
It need not be wondered at, it all thefe things took
me up moft Part of the third Year of my Aboad here;
for it is to be obferv'd, that in the Intervals of thefe
Things, I had my new Harveft and Husbandry to manage; for I reap'd my Corn in its Seafon, and carried it
Home as well as I could, and laid it up in the Ear, in
my large Baskets, till I had Time to rub it out; for I
lead no Floor to thrafli it on, or Inffrttment to thralh it
with.
And now indeed my Stock of Corn encreafing, I
really wanted to build my Barns bigger: I wanted a
Place to lay it up in; fbr the Increafe of the Corn now
yielded me fo much, that I had of the Barley about
twenty Bufliels, and of the Rice as much, or more; infemuch, that now I refolved to begin to ufe it cely,
for my Bread had been quite gone a great whilq  r
refolved to fee what Quantity would be fuffil
me a whole Year, and to fow but once a Year.
Opon the whole, I found that the forty Bufl  of
Bafley and Rice was much more than I could con ume
in a Year; fo I refolved to fow juft the fame Quantity
every Year that I fow'd the laft, in hopes that fuch a
Quantity would fully provide me with Bread, )c.
All the while thefe things were doing, you may be,fure my Thoughts run many times upon the Profpe& of
Land which 1 had feen from the other Side of the
Ifland, and I was not without fecret Wifhes that I was
on Shore there, fancying that feeing the main Land, and
an inhabited Country, I might find fome Way or other
to convey my felf farther, and perhaps at laft find foni
Means of Efcape.
But all this while I made no Allowance for the Dangers of fuch a Condition, and how I might fall into the
Hands of Savages, and perhaps fuch as I might have
Reafon to think far worfe than the Lions and Tigers of
C.4i




( I9 )
Africa. Thbt if I once came into their Power, I ihoull
run a Iazard more than a thoufand to one of being
kiW'd, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard,
that the People of the Carribean Coafts were Cannibals,
or Men-eaters; and I knew by the Latitude, that I could
not be far off from that Shore. That fuppofe they were
not Cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their Hand had been ferved, even when they had been ten or twenty together;
much more I that-was but one, and could make little
or no Defence. All there things, I fay, which I ought
to have confider'd well of, and I did caf: up in my
Thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my Apprehenlions at firif; and my Head run mightily upon the
Thoughts of getting over to that Shore.
Now I wiih'd for my Boy Xury, and the Lonlg-Boat
with the Shoulder of Mutton Sail, with which  i failfd
above a Thouland Miles on the Coaft of a'Jrik; but
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look
on our Ship's Boat, which, as I have faid, was blown
up upon the Shore a great Way in the Storm, when we
were firtf caft away. She lay almofl where fhle did at.Af*   t not quite; and was turn'd by the forc of the
i'         'l di s a lmoft Bottom up.a: i, - g; nfl
WY-Water about
aS before.,
If I had had Hands to have ^f    her, and to have
launch'd her into the Water, the Boat would have d<J}
well enough, and I might have gone back into thePeils with her eafily enough; but I might a-veeafily
feen, that I could no more turn her, and ftt her up
right upon herBottomr, than I could remove the Ifland.
However, I went to the Wood and cut Levers and Rollers, and brought them to the Boat, refolv'd to try
what I could do; fuggeffing to my felf, that if I cculd
but turn her down, I might eafily repair the Damage
the had received, and fhe would be a very good Boat,
and I might go to Sea in her very eafily.
I fpared no Pains indeed in this Piece of fruitlefs
Toil, and fpent, I think, three or four Weeks about'
it; at laff finding it impoflible to heave it up with my
little Strength, I fell towdigging away the Sand to undermine




( 120)
dermlne it, an8 fo to make it fall down, fetting Pieces
of Wood to thruft and guide it right in the Fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to ftir it up
again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it forwards
towards the Water; fo I was forc'd to give it over;
and yet, tho' I gave over the Hopes of the Boat, my
Defire to venture over for the Main increased, rather
than decreafed, as the Means for it feem'd impoflible.
This at length put me upon thinking, whether it was
not poffible to make my felf a Can:e or Periagua, fitih as
the Natives of thofe Climates make, even without Tools,
or, as I might fay, without Hands, vii. of the Trunk
of a great Tree. This I not only thought poflible, but
easy, and pleas'd my felfextreamly with the Thoughts
of making it, and with my having much more Convenience for it than any of the Ncgrses or Indians; hut not
at all confidering the particular Inconveniences which I
lay under, more than the Indians did, vi.. Want of
Hands to move it into the Water, when it was made;
a Difficulty much harder for me to furmount, than all
the Confequences of Want of Tools could be to them:
For what was it to me, that when I had chofen a vaft
Tree in the Woods, I might with great Troublrcut it
-down, ifafter I might be able with ny  toot to hew
and dub the Outfide int        Slhap  f aBoat and
burn or cut out the Inf       it hollow, Co to make
a Boat ofit, if after alt this, I muff leave it iuft there
where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the
Water.
' One would have thought, I could not have had the
taaft Refledion upon my Mird of my Circumftance,
while I was making this Boat, hut I fhould have immediately thought how I filould get it into the Sea;
but my Thoughts were fo intent upon my Voyage over
the Sea in it, that I never once confider'd how I
Ihould get it off of the Land; and it was really in its
own Nature more eafy for me to guide it over forty five
Miles of Sea, than about Forty five Fathom of Land,
where it lay, to fet it a float in the Water.
I went to work upon this Boat the moft like a Fool
that ever Man did, who had any of his Senfes awake.
I pleas'd my felf with the Deign, without determining




( 21 )
ing whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but
that the Difficulty of launching my Boat came often
into my Head; but I put a ltop to my own Enquiries
into it, by this foolifh Anfwer which I gave my felf;
Let mefirf mae it, I' warrant P findfome Way or other
to get it along, when 'tis done.
This was a moft prepofterous Method; but the Eagernefs of my Fancy prevail'd, and to work I went, and
fell'd a Cedar-Tree: I queftion much whether SJlomrn
ever had fuch a one for the Building the Temple at,ferufalem; It was Ave Foot ten Inches Diameter at
the lower Part next the Stump, and four Foot eleven
Inches Diameter at the End of twenty two Foot, after
which it lelfen'd for a while, and then parted into
Branches: It was not without infinite Labour that I
fell"d this Tree: I was twenty Days hacking and hewing at it at the Bottom; I was fourteen more getting
the Branches and Limbs, and the. vaT fpreading Head
of it cut off, which I hack'd and hew'd through with
Axe and Hatchet, and inexpreflible Labour: After this,
it coil me a Month to ihape it, and dub it to a Proportion, and to fomething like the Bottom of a Boat,
that it':ht fwim upright a it ought to do. It cot
me near three Months more to clear the Infide, and:  orkUt~ ol o, as to  e an exa& Boat of it: lhis I
did inieed without Fi  e   re Mallet and Chiffel,
and by the dint of hard LaUBr, till I had brought it
to be a very handfome Periaua and big enough to
have carried fix and twenty MeIn and confquently big
enough to have carried me and all my Cargo.
When I had gone through this Work, was extreme.
ly delighted with it: The Boat was really iuch Nigger than I ever faw a Canoe, or  rtaga, that was made
of one Tree, in my Life; Many a weary Stroke it bad
coft, you nay be fure, for there remained nothing but
to get it into the Water; and had I gotten it into the
Water, I make no queflion, but I fhould have began
the maddeft Voyage and the moll unlikely to be perform'd, that ever was undertaken.
But all my Devices to get it into the Water fail'd me,
though they cof me infinite Labour too; It lay about
one hundred Yards from the Water, and not more, but
G                   the




?                   ( 122 )
t fle firft Inconvenience was, it was up Hill towards th~
Creek: Well, to take away this Difcouragement, I re.
folv'd to dig into the Surface of the Earth, and fo make
a Declivity: This I begun, and it cqtl me a prodigious
deal of Pains; But who grudges Pains, that have their
Deliverance in View?   But when this was worked
through, and this Difficulty manag'd, it was frill much
at one; for I could no more flir the Canoe than I could
the other Boat.
Then I meaflur'd the Diffance of Grdund, and refolv'd
I to cut a Dock, or Canal, to bring the Water up to the
Canoe, feeing I could not bring the Canoe down to the
Water: Well, I began this Work, and when I began to
enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug,
y;      how broad, how the Stuff to be thrown out, I found,
that by the Number of Hands I had, laeing none but my
awn, it mutL have been ten or twelve Years before (
%hould have gone through with it; for the Shore lay
j tigh, fo that at the upper End it muil have been at leafE
twenty Foot deep  fo at length, tho' with great Reifteancy, I gave this Attempt over allo.
This griev'd me heartily, and now I faw, the' too
late, the Folly of beginning a Work before weceount the
Coil, and before we judge rigtly of our own Strength
to go through with it.               " ':   -,
In the middle of this,   I fiiifh'd my fourth
Year in this Place, and: kpt my Anniverfary with the
fame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as ever before; for by a conftant Study, and ferious Application.af the Word of God, and by the Affiftance of his
U3race, I gai'd a different Knowledge from what I had
before: I entertainid different Notions of things; I
look'd now utpon the World as a thing remote, which I
had nothing to do with, no Expeaation from, and ind4eed no Defires about: In a Word, I had nothing in.
deed to do with It, nor was ever like to have; fo I
thought it look'd as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, vit. as a Place I had lived in, but was come out
of it; and well.mightl fay, as Father Abraham to Divest
'Betwveen me and fbee is agreat Gulph fixed.
In the firft Place, I was removed from all the WicRednefs of the World here; I had neither the ~Zu? ofthb
Flei




eJ^,       ufe  o f the Ee, or the Pride of Lifer  I had
nothing to covet; for I had all that I was now capable.of enjoying: I was Lord of the whole Manor, or if I
pleas'd I might call my felf King, or Emperor over the
whole Country which I had Poflcfiion of: There were
no Rivals: I had no Competitor, none to difpate Sovereignty or Command with me: I might have rais'd
Ship-Loadings of Corn, but I had no Dife for it; fo I
let as little grow as I thought enough for my Occafion
I had Tortoife or Turtles enough; but now and then
one was as much as I could put to any Ufe   I had
Timber enough to have built a Fleet of Ships: I had
Grapes enough to have made Wine, or to have cur'd
into Raifins, to have loaded that Fleet when they had,been built.
But alll could make Ufe of, was All that was vluable: I had enough to eat, and to fupply my Wants,
and what was all the reft to me? If kill'd more Flk
than I could eat, the Dog muft eat it, or the Vermin;
if I fbw'd more Corn than I could eat, it muf befpoil'd:
The Trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
'Ground, I could make no more Ufi of them than for
Fewel, an that I had no Occafion for, but to drefs my
Food.
Ina Word, the Nature and Experience of Things
tditated to me upon juif Refledion, that all the good
Things of this World, are no farther good to us, thaa
they are for our Ufe; and that whatever we may heap
-up indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as we can
ufe, and no more. The moft covetous griping 'litel
in the World would have been cured of the Vice of Covetoufnefs, if he had been in my Cafe; for I poffefled
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for Defiire, except it was of things which I had
rnot, and they were but Trifles, tho' indeed of great U ie
to me. I had, as I hinted before, a Parcel of' Money,
as well Gold as Silver, above thirty fix Pounds Sterling:
Alas! theret the nafty forry atfeles Stuff lay; I had no
nanrer of Bufines.ffor' i; and I often thought with my
fel, that I would have given a Handful of it for aGrofi,of'TobaccoPipes, or for a Hand-Mill to grind my Corn;
aay, I would have given it all for Sixpenny-wori  of
2                  Zuri




(    )24
Turnip and Carrot Seed out of England, or for a Handful
of Peafe andBeans, and a Bottle of Ink: As it was, I
had not the leaft Advantage by it, or Benefit from it
but there it lay in a Drawer, and grew mouldy with
the Damp of the Cave, in the wet Seafon; and if I had
had the Drawer full of Diamonds, it had been the fame
Cafe; and they had been of no manner of Value to me,
becaufe of no Ufe.
I had now brought my State of Life to be much eafier
in it 1elf than: it was at firft, and much eafier to my
Mind, as well as to my Body: I frequently fat down
to my Meat with Thankfulnefs, and admired the Hand
of God's Providence,' which had thus fpread my Table
in the Wildernefs: I learned to looks more upon the
bright Side of my Condition, and lefs upon the dark
Side; and to confider what I enjoy'd, rather than what
I wanted; and this gave me fonletimes fuch fecret Com.
forts, that I cannot exprefs them; and which I take
Notice of here, to put thole difcontented People in
Mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God
has given them, becaul.they fee and covet fomething
that he has not given theim: All our Difcontents about
what we want, appeared to nmeto fpring from theWant
of Thankfulnefs for what we have.
Another Refletion was of great Ufeto me, an ttubtlefs would be fo to any one that fhould fall into fuch
Diftrefs as mine was; and this was to compare my prefent Condition with what I at firft expe<fed it fIhould
be; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if
the good Providence of God had not wonderfully order'd the Ship to be calt up nearer to the Shore, where
I not only could come ather, but could bring what I
got out of her to the Shore, for my Relief and Comfort;
without which, I had wanted Tools to work, Weapons for Defence, or Gun-powder and Shot for getting
my Food.
I fpent whole Hours, I may fay whole Days, in reprefenting to my felfin the moft lively Colours, how I
anuft have a&ed, if I had got nothing out of the Ship;
how I could not have fo much as got any Food, except
Fifi and Turtles; and that asit was long beforeI found
any ofthem, I mur have peri&'d firtR: That I thould
have




( 125 )
have liv'd, if I had not periih'd, like a meer Savage:
That ifI had kill'd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Con.
trivance, I had no way to flea or open them, or part
the Fleth from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut it
up; but mult gnaw it with my Teeth, and pull it with
my Claws like a Beat.'
Thefe Refleaions made me very fenfible of the Goodnefs of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
prefent Condition, with all its Hardfhips and Misfortunes: And this Part alfo I cannot but recommend to
the ReflefAion of thofe who are apt in their Miferv to
fay, Is any ffliaion like mine? Let them confider, how
much worfe the Cafes of fome People are, and what their
Cafe might have been, if Providence had thought fit.
I had another Refle&ion which aflifted me aloi to
comfort my Mind with Hopes; and this was comparing my prelent Condition with what I had deferv'd, and
had therefore Reafon to expec from the Hand of Providence: I had liv'd a dreadful Life, perfealy deititute
of the Knowledge and Fear of God;   I had been well
intlrua ed by Father and Mother; neither had they been
Wanting to me in their early Endeavours, to infufe a
religious Awe of God into my Mind, a Senfe of my
Duty, and of what theNature and End of my Being
reqtur'd of me; but:las! falling early into the Sea-.fring Life, which of all the Lives is the molt deftitate
of the Fear of God, tho' his Terrors are always before
them; I fay, falling early into the Sea-faring Life, and
into Seafaring Company, all that little Senfe of Reli*
gion which I had entertaind, was ]aught out of meby
my Mefs-Mates, by a harden'd defpifing of Dangers,
and the Views of Death, which grew habitual to me)
by my long Abfence from all manner of Opportunities
to converre with any thing but what was like my felf,
or to hear any thing that was good, or tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or ofthe
lea    nfe of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greateft Deliverances I enjoy'd, fh asmy Efcape from
Sallee, my being taken up by the. Prtuguee Mailer of
ths Ship, my being planted fo well in Brafils, my re,
ceiving the Gargo from Egland, and the like, I never
3                  once




( 126 )
once bad the WoraThanIk God, fo much as..on my. Mindt,
or in my Mouth; nor in the greateft Diftrefs had I fo~
muzh as a Though to pray to him; or fo much as, to
14y, Lord bave mercy rVon me!. no not to mnenftion the
N axe  f Gd, nle~irwa to fwear. by, ad blafpheme
I had terrible Refleffions, upon my Mind for many
MIoriths, as I have already obferv'd, on the Account of'
my wicked and harden'd Life paff; and when I look'd.
about me, and confider'd what particular Providences,
had attended me Imice my ~cominig into this Place,$ and
bovy God had dealt, bountifully with me 3 had not only
punilbied Me lefs than my 1-ijno' ty had deferved, but
had tb p lentifully provided for me; this gave me great.
Hopes that rhfy Repe'ntance was accepted, and that
GOD had yetMerc'ies' inl Store for mie.With thefe Refleffions.I work'd my Mind up, not
only to Refignation to the W ill of God in the prefent
IJilpofition of my Circumftances~, but. even to a fincere
Thanktuilnefs,for my Condition; and that, 1 who was.
yet a   ig- M4*i', oub   ott j*p~~   feein     a
xot tbe. doe?ifiy~meot, of my ins; that, I evi~jpyd fo
many, Mercies w~hih. I -had no Rtafon to hav-e expedted
in that?Platee that t ought. never more to repine At
MY 'Condition, but to re'jpic;?'to give dil  hak
for that dai47 IEread which  bftnothin  but a C OAd.o
Wonders. could have. brought. That I oug'.ht to conlit
h ta  en fed even h* a JMiracle, even as great at
thatt of fee'din& Lii jib 'by Rkaven's;, n Say,' by a lon Seriet
of, Miacles,, and that' 1 could& hakdly hafenani'd a Place
in, the uninhabited, Parti of the Worki~, W here I could
have been -a1 'more to my Advantage: A #lice.,  er
as I had no Society, wh-ich was my Affhi~ian on te
Hand, Lbo I fbutd no, rayeotisttBe'alls, no fi~wiou's Wolveil
oriTygers to threaten my Lfife; no venomo~us Creatuires
or pofifnous, which I might eed on to my Hurtno Sa'
Vages nW nurder and dev o& ue.*~
Way, fo it was U, LIf Mecyaianrh~er; n   Wne
ntIng to, make sii LA& of. bUmfrt, but to be able,
somaitke miy Seni of' (od'" 3o~d-ne'ft to m,n and 'CarL
ovet nie kin this Coditin,- bt my) daiy Confolation '
and,




( 127 )
ana after I made a jult Improvement of thefe Things,
I went away and was no more fad.
I had now been here fo long, that many Things which
I brougllt on Shore for my Help, were either quite
gone, or very much wafted and near fpent.
My Ink, as I obferv'd, had been gone for fome Time,
all but a very little, which I eek'd out with Water a littile and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce left any Ap.
pearance of Black upon the Paper: As long as it lafted
I made afe of it to Minute down the Days of the
Month on which any remarkable Thing. happen'd to
me; and firft by calfing, up Times paft, I remember
that there was a flrange Concurrence of Days, in the various Providences which befel me, and which, if l had
been fuperftitioufly inclin'd to obferve Days as Fatal or
Fortunate, I might have had Reafon to have look'd upon with a great deal of Curiofity.
F irt, I had obfirv'd, that the fame Day that I broke
away from  my Father and my Friends, and run away to Hull in order to go to Sea, the fame Day afterwards I was taken by the Salei Man of War, and made
a Slave.
The fame Day of the Year that I efcap'd out of the
Wreck of that Ship in Tarmotb Roads, that fame Day
of the Year afterwards I made my Efcape from Salleiin
the Boat.
The fame Day of the Year I was born on, (vit.) the,
soth of September, the fame Day I had my Life bo miraculoufly faved 26 Years after, when I was calfton
Shore in this Ifland; fo that my wicked Life and folitary Life began both on a Day.
The next'Thing to my-Ink's being wafted, was that
of my Bread, I mean the Bisket which I brought out of
the Ship. This I had husbanded to the laft Degree,allowing my felf but one Cake of Bread a Day, for above a
Year; and yat I was quite without Bread for a Year before I got any Corn of my own; and great Reafon I had
o be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been already obferved, next to miraculous,
My Clothes began to decay too mightily: As to Linnen, I had none a good while, exrcept fome ehecquer'
~hirts which I fotmi i n the Cheftis  t Ot  9the rt StG 4                 men.,




( I28 )
men, and which I carefully preferv'd, beeaure many
Times I could bear no other Clothes on but a Shirt;
and it was a very great Help to me that I had among
all the Mens Clothes of the Ship almoit three Dozen of
Shirts. There were alfo feveral thick Watch Coats of
the Seamens, which were left indeed, but they were too
hot to wear; and tho' it is true, that the Weather
'was to violent hot, that there was no need of Clothes,
yet I could not go quite naked; no, tho' I had been
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide the
Thoughts of it, tho' I was all alone.
One Reafon why I could not go quite naked, was)
I could not bear the Heat of the Sun fo well when
quite naked, as with fbme Clothes on; nay, the very
Heat frequently blifter'd my Skin  whereas with a
Shirt on, the Air it felf made fome Motion, and whifling under that Shirt, was twofold cooler than without
i.: No miore could I ever bring myfelfto go out in the
-Heat of the Sun without a Cap or Hat; the Heat of
the Sun beating with fuch Violence as it does in that
tlace, would give me the Head-Ach prefently,' by darting fo dire&ly on my Head, without a Cap or Hat on;
fo that I could not bear it; whereas if I put on my Hats
it would perfently go away.
Upon thofe Views I began to confider about putting
the few Rags I had, which I call'd Clothes, into fome
Order: I had worn out all the Wafte-coats I had, and
my Bufinefs was now to try if I could not make Jackets
out of the great Watch-Coats which I had by me, and
with fuch other Materials as I had; fo I fet to work a
Tayloring, or rather indeed a Botching; for I made
nmof piteous Work of it. However, I made Ihift to make
twoor three new Waftecoats, which I hoped would ferve
me a great while; as for Breeches or Drawers, I made
but very forry fhiftindeed, till afterward.
I have mentioned, that I faved the Skins of all the
Creatures that I kill'd, I mean four-footed ones and I
had hung them up ftretch'd out with Sticks in the Sun,
by which means fome of them were fo dry and hard
that they were fit for little, but others it feems were
very ufeful  The firft thing I made of there was a
great Cap for my Head, with the Hair on the OUtfide..                *  a*    -                 to




( 29 )
to heot off the Rain; and this I perform'd fo well, that
after this I made a Suit of Clothes wholly of thofe
Skins; that is to fay, a Waftecoat, and Breeches open at
Knees, and both loofe, for they were rather wanting
to keep me coot, than to keep me warm-n  I muft not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made;
for if I was a bad Carpenter, I was a worfe Taylor
However, they were fuch as I made very good flift
with; and when I was abroad, if it happen'd to Rain;
the Hair ofof the Waftecoat and Capbaing ouermoft,
I was kept very dry.
After this I fpent a great deal of Time and Pains to
make me an Umbrella. I was indeed in great Want of
one, and had a great Mind to make one; I had feem
them made in the Brafils, where they are very ufeful
in the great Heats which are there: And I felt the
Heats every Jot as great here, and greater too, being
nearer the Equinox; befides, as I was obliged to be
muoh abroad, it was a motl ufeiul thing to me, as wet
tor the Rains as the Heats* I took a world of Pains
at it, and was;a great while before I could make any
thing likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit
the Way, l fpoilt 2 or 3 before I made one to my Mind
but at lall I made one that anfwer'd indiffrently well >
the main Difficulty I found was to make it tq let down.
I could make it to fpread,. but if it did not lerdown too,
aAtdb'aw in; it would not be portable foe me any Way7
but juil over mjHead, which wouldnot do:: However,
atlat;l as I faid, I made one to anfier, I cover'd it
with Skins, the Hair upwards, fo that it caft off th
Rain like a Pent-houfe, and kept off the Sun fo effectually, that I could walk out in the hotteit of the Weather, with, greater Advantage than I could before in the
eooleit,and when I had no Need of it; I could clofe it
and, caty it under my Arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my Mind being
ontirely compofed by tefiging to the Will of God, anc
throwing my felfwholly upon the Difpl   ofl isoProvidence: This made my Life better-ten fociable; for:
when I began to regret the want ot Conrerfation, I
would ask my felf, whether thes conwerfing& musually
with. my own Thoughts, and as i hope I may. faywit
0 G5 5                                 eW




even my 34aker by EJiic~iktions and~ Petitions, was, noit
better than, the utanoit E~njpyment of human Society r
the World?
I,, cannot Cayj, that after this, for, Jive Years, any ext.
traordiuarv Thing happ'en'd ~to m'e, but I liv'da on i1n the
faqme Courri, in thek f-awe Poflure and Place, jufi as be-,
fore:  The chief Thir4 I was employ'd. in, lielidcs ny.
yearlyLabour of,planting, my.Barley andl Rice and.
caring my'Raifiii% of both which Lalw`ys kep.up ju1A
enough to, haite 'wf~i iet t Stocl, of.one Year's, Provlih4
ons beforehand; I Lay, befides. this. yearly Labour, and
mydaiily habour ot going.out with myXGu4n, I had oneLabour ~tor Make Me aCa~noe, which at, laft I finilbied:
So~ that bdiging a Canal. to it of fix,, Foot wide, and
flour Foot deep, I brought it into the Creek, almoft, half
a; Mile., As for the fir~ik, which. was fii,vaftly big,, as-.
I, made it- without, confidering' bcfore~hand,, as ogh
tod*, hoyt Ihulbeable; Ioaunhqhit:; foneeerbig
Ahie to brin it, to the Water, or brine the Wtrt
itI iasohge,to let- it lie,where it,- was,~ asaMe
M iatidm to teach me to be wifer -next. Time., Indeed
the next Time~, Itho`' I could not. get a TIree proper for
it, and was in a Place where I could not get the Water
to it1, atj any ~lefi~ DkIfance than as I have Laid, of near halfr
a Mie; yt a I Lw i was- pri614ble at laft, I never
gave it 6ver; and though I was near. two Years about.
it,~ yet. I never grudged my Labour iHopes. of havy.
ingg Boat to~go off to Sea Inal&   *
Hlowever, -tho 'my little Periguca ~was, finihd  Yet,
teSeof, it was not at all anfworable ~to the Dfg,which I ha in. View, when I made the iErfl;  mean,
of' Venturing, over to -tht Terrat Firma, where it. was.
above forty Miles.- bfoad; accordihgjy, the fmallnefs of
my. BOat-aiftted to putan End ~to~ that D~efWnn and now,
Ithought no more-of it.: But as I, had a Boat, my next.
ELig ~was ~wwke Ih. Tour round the Ifland; for asI hd bei~on  he ther Side, in, one Place,  rtig
as-i have a  lredydfcribed it, ever: the TLand,; La the
Difcoveries. I made int that. journey, made me very.
egrto fee the ether Parts of:the Coaft; and now I
had a Boat, I thouht  Mofnthiig but- failin,ron
for,




For this Purpofe, and that I might do every thing, witli
Difcretion and Confideration, 1 fitted up a little Maft
to my Boat, and made t Sail to it out of fome of
the Pieces of the Ship's Sails, which lay in Store, arid of
which I had a great Stock by me.
Having fitted my Maft and Sail, and tried the Boat,
I found the would fail very well: Then I made little
Lockers or Boxes, at either End of my Boat, to put
Provifions, Necefaries, and Ammunition, tSc. into, to
be kept dry, either from Rain, or the Sprye of the Sea;
and alittle long hollow Place I cut in the Infide of the
Boat where I could lay my Gun, making. a Flap to
hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fix'd my Umbrella altb in a Step at the Stern, like
a Maft, to fland over my Head, and keep the Heat of
the Sun off of me like an Auning; and thus I every
now and then took a little Voyage upon the Sea, but
never went far out, nor far from the little Creek- but
at laft being eager to view the Circumference of my
little Kingdom, I refolv'd upon my Tour, and accordingly I viuail'd my Ship for the Voyage; putting in
twvo Dozen of my Loaves, ( Cakes If hould rather callthem) of Barley-Bread; an Earthern Pot full of parchl'c
Rice, a Food Ieat a great deal of; a little Bottle of
Rum, halfa Goat,and Powder with Shot for killing,
more, and two large Watch-coats, of thofe Which, as 1
mention'd before, 1 had fav'd out of the Seamens Cheftsthere I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the Nighbt
It was the iixth of November, in the fixth Year ofmy
Reign, or my Captivity, which you pleafe, that I fct
out on this-Voyage, and I found it much longer than I
expe&ed.fortho' the fland itfelfas not very large,
yet when I came to the Eaft Side of it, I found a great
Ledge of Rocks lie out about two Leagues into the Sea,
%ome-above Water, tome under it; and beyond that, a
Shoal ofSand, lying dry half a Leage more  fo that I
wvasoblig'd to go a greatWay Out to Sea to double that
Point.  '
When firttaI difcover'd them I was goingto give over
my Enterprize, and come back again, not knowing..w-fiat-it. ight obHi me to go out to Seai andabove
a.ll




all, doubting how I flquld get baek again; fo I came
to an Anchor, for I hAd made meia kld of an Anchor
with a Piece of a broklp Graplin,' which I got out of
the Ship.
Having fecur'd my Boat, I took my Gun, anid went
on Shore, climbing up upon a Hill, which feem'd to
overlook that Point, where I faw the full Extent of it,
and refolv'd to venture.  c.:
Innmy viewing the Sea fromit liat HiU where I lood,
I perceiv'd a ftrong, and indeed, a moft furious Current, which run to the Eaft, and even came clofe to the
Point; and I took the more Notice of it, becaufe I faw
there might be fome Danger, that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to Sea by the Strength of it,
and not be able to make theitfland again: And indeed,
had I not gotten firft up upon this Hill, I believe it
would hlave been fo; for there was the fame Current on
the other Side the Ifantd, only that it fet off at a farther Diftance; and I faw there was a firong Eddy un'der the Shore; fo I had nothing to do but to get in
out of the firft Current, and 1 1hould prefently be in
an Eddy.
I lay here, however, tro Days; becaufe the Wind
blowing pretty freli at E.S.E. (and that being juft conr
trary to the faid Current) made a great Breach of the
Sea tpeo the Pointi fo that it was not fafe for me to
k!een too clofe to the Shore for the Breach, nor to go
too tar off becaufe of the Stream.
The thlrd Day in the Morning the Wind having
abated over Night, the Sea was clm, and I venture&;
but I am a Warning-Piece again to all rafh and ignorant Pilots; for no lboner was I come to the Point, when
'ven I was not my Boat's Length from the Shore, but. I
'found my felf in a great Depth of Water, and a Current
like the Sluice of a Mill: It carried my Boat along with
it with fuch Violence, that all I could do, could not
keep her fo much as on the Edge of it; but I found
it hurried me farther and farther out from the Eddy,
which was on my Left Hand. There was no Wind
ftirring to help me, and all I could do with my Paddles fignified nothing; and now I began to give my
fel over for loaf for as the Current was on both Sides
the




( 133   )
tre Tfland, I knew in a few Leagues Diffance they
muft join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone;
nor did I fee any Poflibility of avoiding it, fo that E
had no Profpe& before me but ofperifhing; not by the
Sea, for that was calm enough, but of ftarving for Hunger. I had indeed found a Tortoife on the Shore, as
big almoft as I could lift, and had tofs'd it into the
Boat; and I had a great Jar of fiefli Water, that is
to fay, one of my Earthen Pots; but what was all this
to being driven into the vaft Ocean, where, to be fure,
there was no Shore, no main Land, or Illand, for a
thoufand Leagues at leat?
Andnow I faw how eafy it was for the Providence of
God to make the moft mferableCondition that Mankind
could be in, worfe. Now I look'd back upon my defolate folitary fland, as the mot pleafant Place in the
Woa-ld, and all the Happinefs my Heart could wifll for,
was to e but there again: I ftretch'd out my Hands
to it with eager Wiihes; O happy Defart, laid I, I
flall never fee thee more  0 miferable Creature, faid
I, whether am I going! Then I reproach'd my felf
with my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at
my folitary Condition; and now what would I give to
be on Shore there again? Thus we never fee the true
State of our Condition, till it is illuftrated to us by its
Contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but
by the Want of it: It is fcarce poffible to imagine the
Confernation I was now in, being driven from my belovedfland ( for fo it appeared to me now to be ) into
the wide Ocean, almoft two Leagues, and in the utnmof Defpair of ever recovering it again: However I
work'd hard~ till indeed my Strength was almoft ex.
haufed, and kept my Boatas much to the No thwardt
that is, towards the Side of the Current which the Eddy lay on, as pofllbly I could; when about Noon, as
the Sun pafs'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a little
Breeze of Wind in my Face, fpringing up from the
S. SE.B. This chear'd my Heart a little, and efpecially
when in about half an Hour more it blew a pretty
fmall gentle Gale: By this Time I was gotten at a
frightful Diftance from the Ifland, and had the leaft
Cloud or hazy Weather interveln'd I had been und-nie,
another




( 134 >
another Way too; for I had no Compafson Board; and
Ihould never have known how to have fteer'd towards
the Ifland, if I had but once loft Sight of it; but the
Weather Continuing clear, I applied my felf to get up
my Maft again, fpread my Sail, faiding away to the
North as much as poffible, to get out of the Current.
Juft as I had fet my Maft and Sail, and tile Boat begn to ftretch away,* I faw even by the Clearnefs of the
Water, fome Alteration of the Current was near; for
where the Current was fo trong, the Water was foul;
but perceiving the Water clear, I found the Current
ahate, and prefently I found to the Eaf/, at about half
a Mile, a Breach of the Sea upon:ome Rocks; thefe
Rocks I found caus'd the Current to part again; and as
the main Strefs ofit ran away more Southerly, leaving
the Rocks to the Nortb-Eaft, fo the other return'd by the
Reppuife of the Rocks, and made a firong Eddy, which
ran back again to the Nortb-Wefl with a very harp
Stream
They who kow      hat' it is to have a Reprieve
brought to them uprn the Ladder, o to be refcued
from ThieVes juf going to murder them, or who have
been in fitch like Extremnties, may guefs what my prefent Surprize of oy was, and how gladly I put my
Bioat into the Stream of this Eddy, and the Wind alfo
frefhening, hoC gladly I fpread my Sail to it, running
ehearfully before the Wind, and with a ftrongTide or
Zddy under Foot-;
This Eddy carried me abbt a League in my Way
baek again direfly towards the IfaInd, but about twoLeagues more to the Northwird tai the Current lay,
which carry' me away at fift, fothat when I came near
the Ifland, Ifound my felf open to the Northern Shore
tifit, that is to fay, the other Eht of the lfnand, oppofite to that which I  we  out tfrom
] When I had made fomething more than a League of
Way by the Help of this Current or Eddy, I found it
Was fpent ahd fervd me no farther. Howeveri, found
hat being betwn the two great Currents, vi. ) that
On tthe Soth Side, which had hurried me away, and
that onthe North, Which lay about a League on the
ty Side:    ay, between thefe two,; in the Wate of
two.,  thc~Wajt




the lflhtd' f found the-Water at lcail 1i~lt, and& running,
s~o Way an4 ha ing lil a Breeze of Wind fair for,
mne,, j kept_ qn'4ftedng,d~ire~kly for the Ifland, tho' not
naki~gfiw~frV~Y.as1 dlid before
Abou" iu a-dc1~  in- the, E's in, eing~then withIn about- t Leaiu of the Wfand, I found the Point of
the Rocks-wbhich occafrioneaci this-Dirfhfer, Ifiretchling out,
*as is - efqriked, be-fore tol t he Southward, 'and cafting,
off' the, Cgrirent, n'orathwardly, had 6f courfe made.
Ahiother  ddt* the, N~orth, and this I found' very
ftrong, but not dire&;1y-fieiting'the Way, myj Courfe lay~,
which was "due   el, u   amf full North.- Holyevr  aying a freh  al, I ftretch'd- a-crpft this Eddy
tianting, North.Weft, and~ in about an Hour came within about a Mile of the  hoe, WI~erc it being, fmoo~h:Water,. I foon got to Ln.
When I was-on Shore ' fell, on m-y Knees; and &ave
God ~Thzkxks for, my Deliverance rlIn to layaide
all T hjisgbts-of my: Deliverance by, my Bot and re's
frfliingl MY felf VvitV fUch Thing's as I had, I brought
piy Doi cIDfe't tPh Shore in- a little Coe that I had
fyd under; foi~ieTrees,,and lai me donto fleep.,be
inSquite fpene, with, the Labour and,Fatiu  of h
V oyage.
I, was w  at    ea Lofs Which Wyt     e Home
-with my Bopat  I   ru  omuc-Huzard and knew,
t4oo much the Caf to think ofa atepig it by the
WyIwen out; nan -what, mig -tic a ' nDt  t he other, Side
(I meann the, WejM*S~e  1I knew not nor had, I- ally
Min to run anrinere" Ventaires,' f~ I only refbAved& in.
the Mornn    tomke my Way Wefiw Ar along,- the,Shore, adofeiftrewas no Creek where I -might
Jay up, my. Eregate in Safety, fo as,-to have her ag~dn if,
Iwned her- In about three Miles, or thereabot
coaffing, the Shore,  came to a. very good Inletx or,
Siah, about. a Mile over, which. narrowd till it came
~to a, ve ry little 'Rikulet- or Brook~, w~here. I found a,convenie'nt Harbour for my Boat, and where fhe lay as
if the bad been in ia little Dock. Made on purpofe for
her; Here I put in, and having. llowed my. Boat veryr
$,afei I went, on ~$hoxe. to, look.about me,, and fee- wlwefe.
J'1




I f~oon fou'nd i haa  ut a little pafsld -by the Place
where I had been' before,; when II travell'd on Foo t to
that Sho re; fo taking P'othing out-of 'My Boat, but. my
Gun and my, Unibre~la, for it 'wAs erclteding hot, I
began my March: The Way was cvomfortable enough
after fuch a Voyage as I had been upon, and I reach'd
my old Bower in the Evening, where I found every
thing flanding as I, left it;- fo Ilwys, kept it in good
Order, being, as I faid befor&,. my Co un~try~houfe.l
Igtoethe Fence, and laid medw -in ~be Shade
torefit my. Limbsfor I w'as very weary,, an~d fell afleep:
But judge io~f' yo    a~h     ed mySfory what a
SurprizeI ul 'be 'in, when Iwais wakd biliu of my
Sleep by a Voice "calling me by my Namne ft-veral
times, Robibin,  in  oi., rfc    poor Rbi Crufe
where. are you Robin Crujoc? Wher'e are you? W here
hav  you been?
Iwas fo ded afee at irl bngfig'd' wth, Rowe
ing, or Paddl ing', a- ilt 'is 'call'd, -t1 firft Part 'of the' Day,
and Walking the late   Pat   that* I did ntwk
thoroughly;i buat dozing Ibetween" 1aeeng and wakiq)g
tought~ 1 dreand 'that fome 6Body poeto-,me: But
asthe Voice 'cottinued to reetRbnCuoRob-in
Cr ufte, at laft I began, to awake more perfeffly, and was
at llfft dreaIdfull f I htedj and ftarted up, in the utmofi:
Ceniifeatio, B     0 &n~ fo l were n' Eyes. open,, but
Ifaw my PONlfittin',,on the T   -fp-&h  ege  m
mediately ~k ew -that it wshe thit, fpoke,ae m;. tfo
jufli fueli bemfonihig LanIuae  bad ued to~ tzlk t'
hiand''teach him;'- at"id 'behd: Jea, fd it lb, petrfte41ly,
thtbe would fit upon, my Finger, ad lay his Bill
clofe to miiy Face, Ioand, c r y, Poor Robi n 'Cr ufoe, Where
areY u?' Where have You. been? Ho~w come you bere? and
fitch Thing asIhad% taught him.:
Hoeeeven thougph I nwift was the Parrot, and
that i ndeed it, coulId "be 'no body -elfe, It was, a &tood
while befrbe I could ~onmpofe~ my felf. PiFi,  was atima-zd howv the Creature got- thither, and' then bow he
Ihotld juft' ke`ep -about~ the Place, and lG. where elfe:
'But ais I was well ~fatislied it could be no Body but honreft Poll, I got it ov-er; and holding-out, my Hand, and,.ca~llg hi~m by his Name P41, the focuible ICreatuw`




(  37 )
tame to-me, ani fat upon my Thumb, as he u-fed to
do, and continued talking to me, Pwor Robin Crufoe,
and bow did I come here? And where had I been? Juft
as if he had been overjoy'd to fee me again; and 1b I
carried him Home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to! Sea for tome
time, and had enough to do for many Days to fit ftill,;
and refle& upon the Danger I had been in: I woul&
have been very glad to have had my Boat again on
my Side of the ifland; but I knew not how it was
practicable to get it about: As to the Eaft Side of the
Ifland, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that Way; my very Heart
would fhrink, and my very Blood run chill but to
think of it: And as to the other Side of the Ialand, I
did not know how it might be there; but fuppofing
the Curr'ant ran with the fame Force againit the Shore
at the Eaft, as it pafs'd by it on the other, I might
run the fame Risk of being driven down the Stream,
and carryld by the Ifland, as I had been before, of being carry'd away from it; fo with there Thoughts I
contended my felf to be without any Boat, tho' it had
been the Produga  of fo many Months tIbour to make
it, and of fo many more to get it unto the Sea.
In this Government of my TemperI remain'd near a
Year, liv'd a very fedate retired Life, as you may well
fuppofe; and my Thoughts being very much compos'd
as to my Condition, and fully comforted in refigning my
felfto the Difpofitions of Providence, I thought 1 lif'&
really very happily in all things, except that of Society.
I improv'd my felf in this Time in all the meehanick
Exercifes which my Neceflities put me upon applying
my felf to, and I believe could, upon Oceafion, have
made a very good Carpenter, efpecially confidering how
few Tools I had.
Befides this, I arriv'd at an unexpeced Perfeaion in
my Earthen Ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a Wheel, which I found infinitely eafier ant4
better; becaufe I iade Things round and filapeable.
which before were filthy Things indeed to look on;
But I think I was never more vain of my own Performancej




(   38)
mncce or more joyful for any Thing I found out, than
for my being able to make a Tobacco-Pipe; and tho'
it was a very ugly clumfy Thing, when it was done,
and only burnt red like other Earthen Ware, yet as it
was hard and firm, and would draw the Sntoak, I was
exceedingly comforted with it; for I had been always
ufed toSmoak, and there were Pipes in the Ship, but
I forgot them  at firfl, not knowing that there was
Tobacco in the Ifland; and afterward when I fearch'd
the Ship again, I could not come at any Pipes atall.
In my   icker-ware alfo I improved much, and made
Abundance of neceffary Baskets, as well as my Invention
ihew'd me, thoughot very handfom, yet convenient for
miy laying. Things up in, or fetching Things home in,
For Example, if I kill'd a Goat abroad, I could hang
it up in a Tree, flea it, and drefs it, and cut it in Pieces, and bring it home in a Basket; and the like by a
Turtle I could cut it up, take out the Eggs, and a
Piece or two of the Flefh, which was enough for me,
and bring them home in a Basket, and leave the reft
behind me: Alfo large deep Baskets were my Receio
~ers for my Corn, which I always rubb'd out as foon
Ss it was dry,,and cured, and kept it in great Bas.
kets inflead ofa Gramry.
I began now to perceive my Powder abated confiAerably, and this w as a Want which it was impofible
fer me to fipply, and I began ferioufly to confider what
i mui do when I fhould have no more Powder; that
is to fly how I Ithold do to kill any Goats. I had,
as is obfer'd in the third Year of my being here, kept
a young Kid, and bred her up tame, I was in hopes of
getting a He-Goat, but I could not by any means bring
it to pafis till my Kid grew an old Goat; and I could
never find in my Heart to kill her, till the dy'd at lat
of meer Age.
But being now in the eleventh Year of my Refidence,
and, as I have faid, my Ammunition growin low, I
ft my felf to fludy iome Art to trapand Ea re the
oats, to fee whether I could not catch' rome of them
alive, and p   larly I  anted a She.Goat great withXYUg
'.,.




To thi~s- Pwpofe I made Sniares to hamnper tbema&
itdo believe they were mowre than once taken, in theiA;
but mry Tackle -was not good, for I had no Wire, an&.
I always found them broken, and my, Bait devourAt length I refblv'da th try a Pit-Mlll fo I dug feverall
large Plits' in the Earth., in Places ~where I had bfrv'&
the; Goats ufed toi eedl andI over thefe Pits I placed
Hurdles of my own Making too, with a great Weight
upon them; andfievetraI ti'mIes I put Ears of Barley and
dry Rice., without fetting, the Trap, and I could eaffly
perceiv~e Ithat the~ Goats hadt goei and ea-ten up the
Corn,~ for t 'could fee the Mark of their, 1eet: At
length. Ifet three Traps in one Night,. and going tht
next Mov~nitg IF fotMd thlem all fundfing, and yet the
Bait eaten adgn;tis, 'Wis very difcoudragig
However, I alter'dnmy Traps, and nctt to trouble YOW
with Particulars, going one Morning~to fee mny Traps,
I found in one, of themr- a large old He-Goat, and in~
one of thet other three Kids, a. Male and two Fe..
As to the dld one3, I knew tiot what to ~do with hi
Ii&~ 4'o1~ceI duri tet go ikatote Pit to hilm;ha
Is to atog    bott lringhhsiitaway_ alive,  hichk
was wha't I Wvan ted: I could hWe killd. him, but that
was' iiot my Bufinefs, nor would it anfw~erm my End4,
So Iel ei'1n lhirn out., and he ran away as ifbhe had been
frighted~ot a i Wits;. But I had. forgat then whatI ha letnedaftrwards,~ that, Hunger, will tame a Lin: 'if Aithd let huh flay thejie three or four DaytWithou Food, and the  hav   aryd him, forme Water
tdrink' fnd t-hen- a little ~Corn, -he woulld have been astame a~one, of the Kids, for they a re migh-ty fagacioutt
tratabl-e Creatures where they are well tufed.
HoWee~rev for, the prelint I let himi gp, knowing nor
better at tat: time;, then. I went to three the Kids, and.
taking tmone by onIty'd th, emr it Strings
kether, and with, Come Di~culty. brought themal
home.
Itw      oa od  Ifhile betbre they would feed, buit
throwing them fozue fweet Corn, 'it tempted them,~ and
bheybggan to be tame:-. And-now. I found that if I ex



peaed to ftupply my felf with Goat Fle/h, when I had
no Powder or Shot left, breeding fome up tame was nim
only Way, when perhaps I might have them about my
ioufe like a Flockof Sheep,,
But then it prefently occur'd to me, that I mult keep
thle Tame from;itie Wild, or elfe- they would always
run wild when they grew, up; and the 'only Way for
this was to have fnbme encloied Piece of Ground, well
fenc'd 'either with Hedge or Pale, to keep them up
fo effe&ually, that thofe within might not break out,
or thofe without break in.
This was a great Undertaking for; one Pair of Hands;
yet as I faw there was an, abfolute Neceffity of doing it,
my firft Piece of Work was to find out a proper Piece of
Groupd, viT, wh   ere t Ire was likely to be Herbage for
tllem to eat, Water for them  to drink, and Cover to
)keep them from the Sun.
Thofe who underftand fuch Enclofures will think I
had very little Contrivance, when I pitched upon a
Place very proper for.11 thefe, being a plain open Piece
of Meadow-Land or Savannam  (as our People call it i4
the WetlerniColonies,) which' had two or three little
-rfils of frefh Water in it, and at one end ws very
woody.  I feay they will- fiu!e at my Forecaft,. when $
ihall tell theml I began my enclofing of this Piece o
Ground in fuch a Manner, that my Hedge or Pale muft
have been at leaft two Mile about; Nor was the Madnefs of it fo great as to t hei pompafs, for if' it was ten
lVile about I was like to have timeenough to do it in
But I did not confiderthat my Goats wouldbe as wil
in fo much Conjpafs, as if they had had the whole I'
fland, and I Ihould have Co much Room to chafe them
in, that I Ihould never catch them.
My Hedge was begun and carry'd on, I believe about
fifty Yards, when this Thought occur'd to me; fo I
prefently flopt (hort, and for the firft Beginning I refolv'd to inclofe a piece of about i50 oYards in Lengtbh
and 1oo Yards& in Breadth, which as it would maintain
as many as I 1hould have in any reafonable Time, Co as 1
my Flock e    afe    c I could add more Ground to my. E In lofure.                  "  *  ', (  '.  1 |  -,,1,




(14)
This was a&ing with fome Prudence, and I went to
work with Courage; I was about three Months hedging in the firft Piece, and till I had done it I tether'd
the three Kids in the belt Part of it, and ufed them to
feed as near me as poffible to make them familiar; and
very often I would go and carry them fome Ears ofBarley, or a Handful of Rice, and feed them out' of my
Hand; fo that after my Inclofure was finifh'd, and I
let them loofe, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a Handful of Corn.
This anfwer'd my End, and in about a Year and half
I had a Flock of about twelve Goats, Kids, and all;
and in two Years more I had three and forty, befides
feveral that I took and kill'd for my Food; And after
that I inclofed five feveral Pieces of Ground to feed
them in, with little Penns to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted them, and Gates out of one Piece of
Ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had GoatsPlelh to feed on when I pleas'd, but Milk too, a thing
which indeed in my Beginning I did not to much as
think of, and which, when it came into my Thoughts,
was really an agreeable Surprize; For now I fet up my
Dairy, and had fometimes a Gallon or two of Milk in
a Day. And as Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to
every Creature, dicates even naturally how to make
ufe of it fo I that had never milk'd a Cow, much lels
a Goat, or feen Butter or Cheefe made, very readily
and handily, tho' after a great many Effays and Mifcarriages, made me both Butter and Cheefe at laft, and
never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his Creatures, even in thofe Conditions in which they feem'd to
be over-whelm'd in Deftrufion! How can he fweeten
the bittereft Providences, and give us Caufe to praife
him for Dungeons and Prifons! What a Table was here
pread for me in a Wildernefs, where I faw nothing at
firft but to perifh for Hunger!
It would have made a Stoick Smile to have feen me
and my lttk Family fit down to Dinner; there was
mYy Mjefty, the Prince and Lord of the whole Ifland:
l ad the Lives of    ll my Subj6ts at my abfolute
Com



142 ):Comand. I eo0d hang, draw, give Life L and Liberty
and take it away, and no Rebels among all my Subjec*s.
Then to i9e how like a King I din'd too, all alone,
attended b  y my Servants; Poll as if he had been my
Favourite, was the only Perfon permitted to talk to
me; my Dog, who was now       grown very old and
xrazy, and found no Species to multiply his Kind up-on, fat always at my Right Hand; and two Cats, one
Qn one Side the Table, and one on the other, expeaing now and then a Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of
fpecial Favour.
But there were not the two Cats which I brought on
Shore at firff, for they were both of them dead, and.bad been interr'd near my Habitation by my own
lHands; but one of them having nmultiply'd ~by I know
not what Kind of Creature, thefe were two which I
had preferv'd tame, whereas the reft run wild in the
Woods, and became indeed troublefome to me at laft
for they would often come into my Houfe, and plunder
me too, till at laft I was obliged to fhoot them, and did
kill a great many; at length they left me with this At
-tendance ' and in this plentiful Manner I liv'd; neither
-could I be faid to want any Thing but Society, and of
that in.fome time after this I was like to have too much.
I was fomething impatient, as I have obferv'd, to
-have the Ufe of my Boat, tho' very loath to run any
4more Hazards; and therefore fometimes I fat contriving Ways to get her about the lilandand at. other times
I fat my felf down contented enough without her. But'
had a itrange Uneafineis in my Mind to go down to
-the Point of' the Ifland, where, as I have laid, inl my
laf Ramble, I went up the Hill to fee how the Shore
lay, and how the Current fet, that I might fee what I
had to do: This Inclination increafed tpon me every
'Day, and at length I refolved to travel thither by
Land; and following the Edge of-the ShoreI did fo::But
had any 'one in England been to meet fiuih a Man as I
was, it muft either have frighted them, or wifed-a great
deal of Laugthter; and as I frequently;Iood..ill to
look at my felf,  could not but fmile at'theotioIn of
ty travelliing thro' Xrkjbirc with fuch an Epipager and
' *,. ' ^ *-  '..  ^ 4  '   *,  '.,,!, iil




( '43 )
in fich a Drefs. Be pleated to take a Sketch ofm3
Figure as follows.                     '
I had a great high fhapelefs Cap, made of a Goat's
Skin, with a Flap hanging down behind, as well to
keep the Sun from me, as to fhoot the Rain off from
running into my Neck; nothing being fo hurtful in
thefe Climates, as the Rain upon the FleIh under the
Clothes.
I had a fhort Jacket of Goat-Skin, the Skirts coning
down to about the Middle of my Thighs; and a Pair
of open-kneed Breeches of the fame; the Breeches were
mnade of the Skin of an old He-goat, whofe Hair hung
down fuch a Length on either Side, that like Pantaloons
it reach'd to the Middle of my Legs. Stockings and
Shoes I had none, but I had made me a Pair of fomething, I fcarce know what to call them, like Buskins,
to flap over my Legs, and lace on either Side like Spatterdafhers; but of a moft barbarous Shape, as indeed
were all the reft of my Cloaths.
I had on, a broad Belt of Goat's Skin dry'd, which
I drew together with two Thongp of the fame, inftead
of Buckles, and in a kind of a Frog on either Side of
this, inftead of a SwOrd and a Dagger, hung a little Saw
and a Hatchet, one On one Side, one on the other: I
had another Belt not fo broad, and faften'd in.the fame
manner, which hung over my Shoulder; and at the
End of it, under my left Arm hung two Pouches, both
made of Goat's Skin too; in one of which hung my
Powder, in the other my Shot: At my Back I carried
my Basket, on my Shoulder my Gun, and over my
-ead a great clumly ugly Goat-Skin Umbrello, but
vwhich, alter all, was the moft neceffary thing I had
about me, next to my Gun: As for my Face, the Colour of it was really not lo Moletta like, as one might expe&t from a Man not at all careful of it, and living within 9 or Io Degrees of the Equinox. My Beard I had
once fiffer'd to grow till it was about a Quarter Mia
Yard long but as I had both Scilfars and Razors fufiCient, I had cut it pretty fhort, except what grew oB
my upper Lip, which I had trimm'd into a large Pair of
A hbometan Whiskers, ftch as I had feen worn by oIme
Tzurs, whom I faw at $4Sce for the Moors did uot wear
fuch




( '44).~uch, tho' the Turks did; of there Muflachioes, or Whibs
kers, I will not fay they were long enough to hang my
Hat upon them, but they were of a Length and Shape
monfirous enough, and fuch as in England would have
pafeed for frightful.
But all this is by the by; for as to my Figure, I had
fo few to oblerve me, that is was of no manner of Con,
fequence; fo I fay no more to that Part: In this kind
of Figure I went my new Journey, and was out five or
fix Days. I travell'd firft along the Sea-Shore, dire&f
ly to the Place where I firft brought my Boat to an Anchor, to get up upon the Rocks; and having no Boat
now to take care of, I went over the Land a nearer
Way, to the fame Height that I was upon before; when
looking forward to the Point of the Rocks which lay
out, and which I was oblig'd to double with my Boat,
as I faid above, I was furpriz'd to fee the Sea all fmooth
and quiet, no Rippling, no Motion, no Current, any
more there than in other Places.
I was at a ftrange Lofs to underftand this, and relblv'd
to fpend fome Time in the obferving it, to fee if nothing
from the Sets of the Tide had occafion'd it; but I was
prefently convinced how it was, vi. That the Tide of
Ebb fetting from the Weft, and joyning with the Current of Waters from fome great River on the Shore, muft
be the Occafion of this Current; and that according as
the Wind blew more forcible from the Weft, or from
the North, this Current came near, or went farther
from the Shore; for waiting thereabouts till Evening,
I went up to the Rock again, and then the Tide of Ebb
being made, I plainly faw the Current again as before,
only, that it ran farther off, being near half a League
from the Shore; whereas in my Cafe, it fet clofe upon
the Shore, and hurried me and my Canoe along with it,
which at another Time it would not have done.
This Obfervation convinc'd me, That I had nothing
odo but to oblferve the Ebbing and the Flowing of the
A ide, and I might very eafily bring my Boat about the
Ifand again: but when I began to think of putting it
in Practice, I had fuch a Terror upon my Spirits at
the Remembrance ofthe Danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any Patience j but on
-                     the




(  106 )
tle contrary, I took up another Refolutton, which was
more fafe, though more laborious; and this was, That
I would. build, or rather make me another Teriagua., or
Canoe; and fo have one for one Side of the Ifland, and.
one for'the other.
You are to underrtand, that now I had, as I may call
it, two Plantations in the IWiand; one my little Fortification or Tent, with the Wall abcut it under the
Rock, with the Cave behind me, which by 'this Time
I haa enlarg'd into feveral Apartments or Caves, one
within another. One of thefe, which was the dryef,
and largefl, and had a Door out beyond my Wall or
Fortification; that is to lay, beyond where my Wall
j )ind to the Rock, was all fii'd up with the large Earthen Pots, of which I have given an Account, and with
fourteen or fi'teen great Baskets, which would hold five
or fix Bufhlels each, where I laid up my Stores of Provifion, efpe-ially miv Corn, fome in the Ear cut oft
fhort from the Straw, and the other rubb'd out with
mwy Hand.
As for my Wall made, as before, with long Stakts
or Piles, thofe Pils grew all like Trees, and were by
this Time grown fo big, and fpread io very   niuch.
that there was not the leaft Appearance to aby one's
View of any Hibitation behind them.
Near this Dwelling of'iiine, but a little farther within the Land, and upon lower- Ground, lay hmy two Pieces of Corn-Ground, which I kept duly cultivated
and fow'd, and which duly, yielded me their Harveit in
its Seafon; and whenever 1 had Occafion for more Corn)
I had more Land adjoining as fit as'that.
Befidesthis, I had my Country Seat, and I had now
a tolerable Plantation there alfo; for firtl, I had i,^v
little Bower, as I call'd it, which I kept in Repair;
tb:it is to Nfy, I kept the Hedge which circled it i-n,
cnlf}ntly fitted up to its ufual Height, the Ladder
ftanding always in the infide; 1 kept the Trees wlhich
at 'firft were no tnore 'than my Stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall; I kept them always fo ctt,
that they might fpread and grow thick and wild, a~nd
make the more agreeable Shade, which they did effec.
-tually to my Mincd In the middle of this I had my.H                 Tmt




(146)
Tent always flanding, being a piece ofa Sail fpread over
Poles iet up for that Purpotl, and which never wanted
any repair or renewing; and under this I had made me
a Squab or Couch, with the Skins of the Creatures I had
killd, and with-other foft Things, and a Blanket laid
on them, fuch as belong'd to our Sea-Bedding, which I
had faved, and a great Watch-Coat to cover me; and
here, whenever I lad occafion to be abfent from my
chief Seat, I took up my Country Habitation.
Adjoyning to this I had my Enclofures for my Cattle,
that is to fay, my Goats: And as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclofe this Ground,
fo I was fo uneaiy to fte it kept entire, left the Goats
fliould break thro', that I never left off, till with infinite Labour I had fluck t eDutfide of the Hedge lb full
offmall Stakes, and fo ner to one an another, that it was
rather a Pale than aHedge, and there was fcarce room to
put a Hand thro' between them, which afterwards when
thofe Stakts grew, as they all did in the next rainy
Seafon, made the Enclofure ftrong, like a Wall, indeed
fronger than any Wall.
This will teftify for me that I was not idle, and
that I fpared no Pains to bring to pals whatever appear'd neceffary for my comfortable Support; for I confider'd the keeping up a Ereed of tame Creatures thus
at my Hand, would be a living Magazine of Flefh,
Milk, Butter and Cheefe, for me, as long as I liv'd in the
Place, if' it were to be forty Years; and that keeping
them in my Reach, depended entirely upon my pertecting my Enclofures to fuch a degree, that I might be
fure of keeping them together; which by this Method
indeed I fo effectually fecured, that when thefe little
Stakes began to grow, I had planted them to very thick,
I was forced to pull bonle ofthem up again.
In this Place allb I had my Grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my Winter Store of Raifins,
and which I never fail'd to preferve very carfully, as the
beft and moft agreeable Dainty of my whole Diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only, but phyfical, wholefo ne, nourifhing and refrefhing to the laft degree.
As




( I47)
As this was alfo about half way between my other
Habitation and the Place where I had laid up my Boat,
I generally flay'd and lay here in my Way thither;
for I ufed frequently to viiit my Boat, and I kept all
things about or belonging to her in very good Order;
fometimes I went out in her to divert my felf, but no
more hazardous Voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever
above a Stone's Caft or two from the Shore, I was fo apprehenfive of being hurried out of my Knowledge again by the Currents, or Winds, or any other Accident:
But now I come to a new Scene of my Life.
It happen'd one Day about Noon, going towards my
Boat, I was exceedingly furpiz'd with the Print of a
Man's naked Foot on the Shore, which was very plain
to be feen in the Sand: I flood like one Thunder-fcuzk,
or as if I had feen anApparition; I litlen'd, I look'd round
me, I could hear nothing, nor fee any thing; I went
up to a riling Ground to look farther: I went up the
Shore, and down the S.ore, but it was all one, I could
fee no other Impreffion but that one, I went to it again
to fee if there were any more, and to obferveif it might
not be my Fancy; but there was no Room for that, for
there was exactly the very Print of a Foot, Toes,
Heel, and every Part of a Foot; how it came thither
I knew not, nor could irr the leaft imagine  But after
innumerable flattering Thoughts, like a HlVan perfedly
confuted and out of my felf; i came home to my Fortification, not feeling, as we fay, the Ground I went on,
but terrify'd to the laft * degree, looking behind me at
every two or three Steps, milcaking every Bulh and
Tree, and fancying every Stump at a diftance to be a
Man; nor is it poifible to defcribe how many var.ous
Shapes afrighted Imagination reprefented things to me
in; how many wild Ideas were fbnrm'd every Moment
in my Fancy, and what firange unaccountable Whimfies
came into my Thoughts by the Way.
When I came to my Caftle, for lb I think I call'd it
ever after this, I fled into it like one perfued  whether I went over by the Ladder, as firft contriv'd, or
went in at the Hole in the Rock, which I call'd a Door,
Icannot remember; for never frighted Hare fled to
I 2              Cover,




(  148 )
Cover, or Fox to Earth, with more Terror cf MrinI,than I to this Retreat.
I flept none that Night; the farther I was from thb
Occafion of my Fright, the greater my Apprehenfions
were; which is fomething contrary to the nature o'
fhch things, and efpecially to the ulual PraAice of all
Creatures in Fear: Put I was fo embarrafs'd with my
own frightful Ideas of the Thing, tlat I form'd nothing
u tat difinal Imaginations to my felt; even tho' I was now,a great way off it. Sometimes I fancy'd it nmuf be the
Devil; and Realonjoin'd in with me upon this Suppo.
iition: For how fhould any other thing in human Shape
come into: the Place? Where was the Veflel that brought
them? What Marls was there of any other Footiteps?
And how was it poflible a Man flould come there?
But then to think that Satan fhculd take human Shape;upon him in fuch a Place where there could be no man-,ser of Occafion for it, but to leave the Print of his
Foot behind him, and that even for no Furpofe too
( for he could not be fure I fliould fee it ) this was an
Amufement the other Way: I confider'd that the Devil;might have fiund out Abundance of other Ways to have
i;errify'd me, than this of -the fingle Print of a Foot.
That as I lived quite on the otherfide of the Ifland,;he would never have been fo fimple to leave a Mark in;a Place where it was ten Thouland to One whether
I fhould ever fee it or not, and in the Sand too, which
t.he firil Surge of the Sea upon a high Wind would have,defac'd entirely: All this ftenl'd inconfiflent with the
Thing itelf,1 and with all Notions we ufually entertain,.of the Subtilty of the Devil.
Abundance of fuch Things as thefe affilted to argue
jnle out of all Apprehenfions of its b ing the Devil:
And I prefently concluded then, that it muft be fome
more dangerous Creature, vii. That it mult be fome.of the Savages of the main Land over-againft me, who
had wandered cut 'to Sea in their Canoes, and either.driven by the Currents, or by contrary Winds, had
made the Ifland; and had been on Shore, but were gone
awayagain to Sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have ittid
in this defolate fland, as I would have been to have:had ithaem.
WYhile




(149)
Wh'iiIet thefE 'Reflecl ions we re rolIin g upon my M~H rz
Iwas veythankiul in mly Thoughts, that 1 was' i'( hap.py as not to be toercabouts at that Time, or that they
daid not f'ee niv Boat, by which they wvould have con'cludedi that libme Inhabitants had been in the Place, and,
perhaps have- fearch'd fharthe.-r fb)r me:Thlen, terrible_
'fhou~khts rack'~d my 1nmaginati1on -about their having.
found miy Boat, andl thlat tarNvere People here; anit
tatif 1o, I fhGIhuld certairnly have themi comne agin in
greater Num-ber-is, -Ard dtevour me-; that il it fhculd hap,
pe-n fo tiit thety 1hiuid not find  y~ et- the) wouldw
find may Eneholuire, deilrcy all my Corn, Car., y awayN1 all
nmy Flock of taue, Coats, and I Iho-uld perifli -it lail fOr-1
nieer. Wvant.
Thus miy Fcar M          ll' iiyn Reii'ious Hop,-, al,
t~hat f'ormeizr Con liICh  in Ciocl woe U xv  fui"idd A '
o n fittm-h v xxnctei ru LxpC I i~tIoce ") I hlc In '(1 o h1i's Goo'd -
niei  now lvar.I dc;  i,  be I  IhoI lI- ( d nit byMrCle hithe-rto, co-fl( ontpI've ly lis Po~x  i the Ur
Niin ~vluDChl" ciihd im1ale f', rti- by bis (ood nel~.  I
reproach'd rmy I~livi vat roy Eale -'tiO   tl1,it wouii no,
fow  any more Coin one Yeai tihan w ( uIdld~.i Cf fr vc me~
tIl the next Seafion, as ikt no Al-cident Ct uld Inte-1rve:ne:
to prevent my enjoyingr the- Crop that was upon thie
Ground; and this I thought lb juti a Reproof, that I
relolv'd for the future to have two or three Years (>61ra,
before-hand, fo that whatever might come, I m11Aibt -
not Perifh for Wa1nt of Bread.
Ilow firange a Chequer-Work of Pi-oxidence is thre
Life of Man! and by -what fecrt dfiffering Springs are
the Affe~&ions hurrie'd about, as differingi Gircut-ni'ances
prefent!I To Day we love what to Morrow wve hate; to
Day we feek what to Morrow we1 fliun; tb Day we delire what to Morrow we fear;.say, even tremble at thleAp-prehefions of. This was exemnplified in mie at this,
Time in the mofl lively M1ariner im-aginable; fbr 1,
whofe onlyAffiillion was, that I feem'~d banillh'd from'
human Society, that I was alone, cirCumfcrib'd by the
l)oundlefs Ocean, cut off from Mankind, aiad condenin'd
to what I call filent Life; that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be nuinbe-,r'd among the Liv..
ing, or to appear among, the Ireat of his Creatures; that,
H-                        t




(     0 )
to lave feen one of my own Species, would have feem'd
to me a Raifing me from Death to Life, and the greater
BlelTing that Heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme bleffing
of Salvation, could beftow; I fay, that I fhould now
tremble at the very Apprehenfions of feeing a Man, and
was ready to fink into the Ground at but the Shadow, or
iilent Appearance of a Man's having fet his Foot on
the Ifland.
Such is the uneven State of Human Life; and it afforded me a great many curious Speculations afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my firfl Surprize; I
confidered that this was the Station of Life, the infinitely wile and good Providence of God had determin'd
for me; that as I could not forefee what the Ends of
Divine V ifdom might be in all this, fo I was not to
difpute his Sovereignty, who, as I was his Creature, had
an undoubted Right by Creation, to govern and dif.
pofe of me abfolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I
was a Creature who had offended him, had likewife
a judicial Right to condemn me to what Punifliment he thought fit; and that it was my Part to fibmit
to bear his Indignation, becaufe I had finn'd againit
him.
I then refle&ed, that God, who was not only Righteous but Omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
punifli and affli& me, fo he was able to deliver me;
that if he did not think fit to do it, 'twas my unqueflion'd Duty to refign nyfelf abfolute and entirely to his
Will: And on the other hand, it was my Duty alfo to
hope il him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the
Ditates and Dire&ions of his daily Providence.
Thefe Thoughlts took me up many Hours, Days,
nay, I may fay, Weeks and Months; and one particular Efrf& of my Cogitations on this Occafion, I cannot
omit, via. One Morning early, lying in my Bed, and
fill'd with Thoughts about my Danger from the Appearance of Savages, I found it difcompos'd me very
much; upon which thofe Words of the Scripture came
into my Thoughts, Call upon me in the Day cf Trouble,
and 1 wil deliver, and tbou Jhalt fl:rify me.
Upon this, riling chearfully out of my Bed, my
Heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encourag6...




( 15' )
encouraged to pray earneitlv to God for Deliverasne:
When I had done praying, I took up my Fible, and
opening it to read, the firil Woils that pretented to
me, were, WFait on the Lord, and bbe oj god Cheer, and
he Jall flrengthen thy Heart; wait, ifay, cn the Lord.
It is impoffible to exprefs the Comfort this gave me.
and in return, I thankfully laid down the Book, and was
no more fad, at leaft, not on that Occafion.
In the Middle ofthefe Cogitations, Apprehenflons,
and Refle&ions, it came into my Thoughts one Day.
that all this might be a meer Chimerea of my own,
and that this Foot, might be the Print of my own
Foot, wheV I came on Shore from   my Boat: This
chear'd me up a little too, and I began to perfwade my
flf it was all a Delufion; that it was nothing elie but
my own Foot; and why might not I come that Way
from the Boat, as well as I was going that Way to
the Boat? Again, I confider'd alfo that I could by no
Means tell for certain where I had trod, and where f
had not; and that if at laft this was only the Print of
my own Foot, I had play'd the Part of thofe Fools,
who ftrive to make Stories of Spe&res and Apparitioris, and then are themfelves frighted at them more
than any Body elfe.
Now I began to take Courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not ftirr'd out of my Caftle for three
Days and Nights; fo that I began to flarve for Provilion; for I had little or nothing within Doors, but rome
Barley Cakes and Water. Then I knew that my Goats
wanted to be milk'd too, which ufually was my Evening Diverfion; and the poor Creatures were in great
Pain and Inconvenience for want of it; and indeed it
almoft fpoil'd ibme of them, and almoft dry'd up their
Milk.
Heartning my felf therefore with the Beliefthat this
was nothing but the Print of one of my own Feet,
(and fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my own Shadow) I began to go abroad again, and went to my Country-Houfe to milk my Flock; but to fee with what Fear
I went forward, how often I look'd behind me, how I
was ready every now and then, to lay down my Bafket, and run for my Life, it would have made any one
LE 4,               ~hae




( I52 )
have thoughat I was haunted with an evil Conlcience, or
that I had been lat vly moll terribly fiighted  and, ib
indeed 1 had.
Holoever, as I went down thus two orthree Days,
and having leen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really ncthing in it but my own
I mArination;; bt I could not perfwade my fel 'fully of
this, till I lhould go down to the Shore again, and fee
this Print of a Foot, and meafure it by mly own, and
ice if there was any iimilitade or Fitnefs, that I mipht
Be affured it was my own Foot: But, when I came to.
the Place firft, it appear'd evidently to me, that when
I laid up my Boat, I could not polfibly be on Shore any
l'wher ere teabout: Secondly, whnn I came to meafure
the   ark with my own Fcot, I 0fond my Foot not tl,
l.rge hb a gre t deal; both thefe things hil'd my Head
-uithi  w r magintations, and gave ne the Vapcurs a-.   tin   ti the his}:l} deg-ee;, t1 hat I tioolk ith Cold,,
like one in an Ague, alId i went Home again, fill'd with
t)ie belief tlat!omre IMan or /Men had been on Shore.
there; or,, in fiiort, tlat the Ifland was inhabited, and
} nmigi:t be li'rpriz'd belbre I was aware; and what
Courie to take for my Secutity, I knew not.
0 what -idiculous Refolutions Men take, when poffkfs'd 'with Fear! it deprives. them of the Ufe of thofe
learts which Reafon ofiers for their Relief: The firl.
thing I propofed to my iclf was, to throw down my
Enclofures, and turn all my tame Cattel wild into thle
Woods, that the Enemy might not find them, and then
frequent the ifland in Profpef of the fame, or the like
Booty; then to the fimple thing ofdiggirg up my two
Corn-Fields, that they might not find Rilch a Grain
t;lere, adnd fill be prompted to frequent the Ifland
then to demolifh my Bower and Tent, that they might
not fee any Vefliges of Habitation, and be prompted to
look further, in order to find out the Peribns inhabiting.
Thefe were the SubjeA of the firft Night's Cogitation,
after I was come home agaip, while the Apprehenfions which had fb over run my Mind were frefh upon
me, and my Head was full of Vapours, as above.
Thus Fear of Danger is ten thoufand times more terrify-.
ing




( 53)
ingthan Danger it felt, when apparent to the Eyes; a.nc
we 4find the Burden of Anxiety greater by mu-h, than
the Evil which we are anxious about; but, which:was
worfe than all this, I had not that Relief in this l'rouble
from the Refignation I ufed to prat&ie, that I hoped to
have. I look'd, I thought, like Sal!,, who compltin'd
not only that the FPhilijitncs were upon him, but that
God had forfaken him; for I did not now take due wax s
to compofe my Mlind, by crying to God in my Diflrefss
and relling upon his Providence, as I had done before,
for my Dcfence and Deliverance; which if I had done,
I h11ad, at leafl, been more cheer ully fiapported under
this new Surprize, and perhaps carried through it with
more Refolution.
This Confufion of my Thoughts kept me waking all
Night; but in the Morning I fell afeep, and having,
by the AnmufCement of my Mind, been as it were tired
and my Spirits exhrufted, I flept very lbundly, and
wak'd much better compos'd than I had eve,' been before: Andr-now I began to think fedatclv; and upon,
the utmoft Debate with my felt; I concluded, That this
Ifland, which was fo exceeding plealant, fi',iti'ul, and
no farther from the main Land than as I had feen, was
not fo entirely abandon'd as I might imagine: That al
tho' there were no ftated Inhabitants who liv'd on the
Spot; yet that there might ibmetimes come Boats off'
from the Shore, who either with Dcfign, or perhaps.
never, but when they were driven by crofs Winds, might
come to this Place.
That I had liv'd here I 5 Years now, and had not met
with the leaft Shadow or Figure of any People before;
and that if at any Time they fhould be driven here, it
was probable they went away again as foon as ever they
could, feeing they had never thought fit to fix there
upon any Occafion, to this Time.
That the nmoft I could fuggefl any Danger from, was)
fiom any fuch cafual accidental Landing of tliaggling
People from the Main, who, as it was likely if they
were driven hither, were here againft their Wills; 1i
they nmade no flay here, but went off again with all
poflible Speed, feldom fraying one Night on 5hore, left
they fhould not have the Help of thet..ideze and Day.
H. Stg.




(   54  )
tight back again; and that therefore I had nothing td
^ do but to confider of Tome fafe Retreat, in Caie I Should
See aly Savages land upon the Spot.
Now I began forely to repent, that I had dug nmy
Cave to large, as to bring a Duor through again, which
Door, as I faid, came out beyond where my Fortification joyn'd to the Rock: Upon maturely confidering
this therefore, I refolv'd to draw me a fecond Fortification, in the fame Manner of a Semicircle, at a Diflance
from my Wall, juft where I had planted a double Row
of Trees about twelve Years before, of which I made
mention  Thete Trees having been planted ib thick before, there wanted but a few Piles to be driven between
them, that they fhould be thicker, and ftronger, and
my Wall would be foon finifh'd.
So that I had now a double Wall, and my outer Wall
Was thickned with Pieces of Timber, old Cables, and
every thing I could think of to make it firong; having
in it feven little Holes, about as big as I night put my
Arm out at. In the Infide of this i thickned my Wall
to about ten Foot thick, with continually bringing
Earth out of my Cave, and laying it at the Foot of the
Wall, and walking upon it; and through the feven
Hbles, I contriv'd to plant the Mufquets, of which I
took Notice, that I got feven on Shore out of the Ship
thefe, I fays I planted like my Cannon, and fitted them
into Frares that held them like a Carriage, that fo I
could fire all the feven Guns in two Minutes time:
This Wall I was many a weary Month a finifhing, and
yet never thought my felf tife till it was done.
When this was done, I fluck all the Ground without
fby Wall, for a great way every way, as full with Stakes
or Sticks of the Ofier-like Wood, which I found fo apt
to grow, as they could well ftand; infomucl, that I be,
lieve I niight fet in near twenty thoufand ofthem, leaving a pretty large Space between them and my Wall,
that I might have Room to fee an Eneiy, and they
mitght hae no Shelter from the young Trees, if they at&
tempted to approach my outer Wall.
Thus in two Years time I had a thick Grove; and in
five or fix Years time I had a Wood before my Dwelli1g, grown lb monftrous thick ahd itrong, that it was
indeed




( T,5   )
Indeed perfeyly impaffable; and no Man, of what kind
foever, would ever imagine that there was any thing
beyond it, much lefs a Habitation: As for the Way
which I propofed to my felf to go in and out, (for I left
no Avenue) it was by fetting two Ladders; one to a Part
of the Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another Ladder upon that; fo when the
two Ladders were taken down, no Man living could
come down to me without mifchieving timfel'; and if
they had come down, they were fill on the Outfide of
my outer Wall.
Thus I took all the Meafures human Prudence could
fugger for ny own Prefervation; and it will bee feen at
length, that they were not altogether without juil Reafon; though I forefaw nothing at that time, more than
my meer Fear fuggefted to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether carelef)
of my other Affairs; for I had a great Concern upoi
me for my little Herd of Goats; they were not only a
prefent Supply to me upon every Occafion, and began
to be fufficient to me, without the Expence of Powder
and Shot, but alfo abated the Fatigue of my Hunting after the wild ones and I was loth to lofe the Advantage of them, and to have them all to nurfe up over
again.
To this Purpofe, after long Confideration, I could
think of but two Ways to preterve them; one was to,
find another convenient Place to dig a Cave under
Ground, and to drive them into it every Night; and
the othewr was to enclofe two or three little Bits of
Land, remote from one another, and as much conceal'd
as I could, where I might keep about halfa dozen young
Goats in each Place; fo that if any Diffter happen'd
to the Flock in general, I might be able to raife thenr
again with little Trouble and Time: And this, tho' it
would require a great deal of Time and Labour, I
thought was the moft rational Defign.
Accordingly, I fpent fome Time to find out the moft
retired Parts of the Ifland; and I pitched upon one which
was as private indeed as my Heart could wifl; for it
was a little damp Piece of Ground in the middle of the
hollow and thick Woods, where, as is obferv'd, I at.
maHn




( 156~
moit loft my felf once before, endeavouring to corGm
back that way from the Eaftern Part of the Ifland:
Here I found a clear i'iece of Land near three Acres,
lo furrounded with Woods, that it was almoft an Enclofure by Nature, at leaft it did not want, near fo much
Labour to nlake it fo, as the other Pieces of Ground I
had work'd fo hard at.
I immediately went to work with this Piece of
Ground, and in leis than a Month's time, I had fo
fenced it round, that my Flock or Herd, call it wxhich
you pleafe, who were not fo wild now as at firft they
miight be fuppofed to be, were well enough fecured in
i. So without any farther Delay, I removed ten She( oats and two He Goats to this Piece; and when they
were there, I continued to perfeft the Fence till I had
niade it as fecure as the other, which, however, I did
at more Leifure, and it took me up more Time by a
great deal.
All tbii Labour I was at the Expgnce ofy purely frorn
my Appreheni' ns on the Account of the Print of a
Mlan's Foot which I had. feen; for as yet I never faw
any human Creature come near the Ifland, and I had
now liv'd two Years under thele Uneafinefles, which
indeed made ihy Life much les.comfortable than it was
t'efbre; as may well be imagin'd by any who know
what it is to live in the conftant Snare of the Fear of
Man; and this I muft obferve with Grief too, that the
Pifcompofure -of my Mind had too great nlprtfnions
alfo upon the re-lious Part of my Thoughts; for the
Dread and Teror of faiuing into the Hands of Savages
and Canibals lay fo upon Imy Spirits, that I feldom found
my felf in a due Temper for Application tQ my Maker,
at l'aft not with the fedate Calmnefs and Refignatio.
of 5oul which I was. wont to do: I rather pray'd to
God as upder great Afflti&ion and Preffure of Mind, furrounded with Danger, and in Expetation every Night
of btfing murther'd and devcur'd before Morning; and
I muil tefrily fiom  my Experience, that a Temper of
-'eace, Thankfulnefs, sLove arid Affition, is much the
more proper Frame for Prayer than that of Terror and
Dircompofure; and that under the Dread of Mifchief
impending, a Man is no amore fit for a comforting Per+                                        - frxngrcee




( I57 )`
fbrmance of the. Duty of praying to God, than he is for
Repentance on a Sick-Bed: For thefe Difcompoiures
affer the Mind as the others do the Body; and the-Difcompofure of the Mind mull neceffarily be as great a
Difability as that of the Body, and much greater, praying to God being properly an Aft of the Mind, not of
the Body.
But to go on; After I had thus fecur'd one Part of
miy little living Stock, I went about the whole fland,
itarching for another private Place, to make fuch another Depofit; when wandring more to the Weft Point
of the Ifland than I had ever done yet, and looking out'
to Sea, I thought I faw a Boat upon the Sea, at a great
Diflance I had found a Perfpedive-Glafs, or two, in
one of the Seamen's Chells, which I fav'd out of our
Ship; but I had it. not about me, and this was fb remote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I look'd at it till my Eyes were not-able to hold to look
any longer; whether it was a Boat, or not, I do not
know; but as I defcended from the Hill, I could fee po
more ofit, fo I gave it over; only I refolv'd to go no
more out without a Perfpe&ive-Glafs in my Pocket.
When I was come down the Hill, to the End of the
Ifland, where indeed I had never been before, I was
prefently convinc'd, that the feeing the Print of aMan's
Foot, was not fich a ftrange thing in the Ifland, as I
impagin'd; and but that it was a fpecial Providence
that I was cadl upon the Side of the Ifland, where the
Savages never came, I fllould eafily hbae known, that
nothing was nmre frequent than for the Canoes fiom the
Main, when they happen'd to be a little too far out at
Sea, to fhoot over to that Side of the Ifland for Harbour; likewife as they often met, and fought in their
Canoes, the Vi&ors having taken any Priloners, would
biing them over to this Shore, where, according to their.
dreadful Cuftoms, being all Canibals, they would kilt
and eat them: Of which hereafter.
When I wascome do wn tl$e Hill to the Shore, as I
faid above, being the S.W. Point, of the I land, I was,
perfetly confounded and amaz'd; nor is it poffible for,
ne to exprefs the Horror of my Mind, at. fecing the
Swor; fpread with Skulls, Hands, Feet, and other Bones
of


U




( I58 )
of human Bodies; and particularly I obferv'd a Place
where there had been a Fire made, and a Circle dug in
the Earth, like a Cock-pit, where it is fuppofed the
Savage Wretches had fat down to their inhuman Feaflings upon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures.
I was lb aftonifh'd with the Sight of thefe Things,
that I entertain'd no Notions of any Danger to my lelf
from it, for a longe while; all my Apprehenfions were
buried in the Thoughts of fqch a Pitch of inhuman,
hellilh Brutality, and the IHorIor of the Degeneracy of
human Nature; which tho' I had heard of often, yet I
never had fo near a View of before; in fhort, I turned
away my Face fromn the horrid Speftacle; my Stomach
grew fick, and I was jufi at the Point of Fainting, when
Nature difcharg'd the Diforder from my Stomach,
and having vomited with an uncommon Violence, I
was a little relieved; but could not bear to flay in the
Place a Moment; fo I got me up the Hill again, with
all the Speed I could, and walk'd on towards my own
Habitation. '
When I came a little out of that Part of the Ifland,
I flood till a while as amaz'd; and then recovering
my felf, I look'd up with the utmoft Affe6ion of my
Soul, and with a Flood of Tears in my Eyes, gave
God Thanks that had call my firi Lot in a Part of the
World, where I was diftinguifhed from fuch dreadful
Creatures as thefe; and that tho' I had efteem'd my
prefent Condition very miserable, had yet given me fo
many Comforts in it, that I had f1ill more to give
Thanks for, than to complain of; and this above all,
that I had, even in this miserable Condition, been
comforted with the Knowledge of himfelf, and the
Hope of his Bleffing, which was a Felicity more than
fufficiently equivalent to all the Mifery which I had
fufer'd, or could fuffer.
In this Frame of Thankffulnefs, I wert Home to my
Caftle, and began to be much eafier now, as to the Safe.
ty of my Circumftances, than ever I was before; for
I obferv'd that there Wretches never came to this
Ifland in fearch of what they could get; perhaps not
feeking, not wanting, or not expe&ing any thing here;
ind -having often, no doubt, been up in the Icover'd
woody




( I59 )
Woody Part of it, without finding any thing to their
Purpofe: I knew I had been here now almoft eighteen
Years, and never faw the leaft Footfteps of human
Creature there before; and I might be here eighteen
more as entirely conceal'd as I was now, if I did not
difcover my felf to them, which I had no manner of
Occafion to do, it being my only Bifinefs to keep my
felf entirely conceal'd where I was, unlefs I found a
better fort of Creatures than Canibals to make my felf
known to.
Yet I entertain'd fuch an Abhorrence of the favage
Wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman Clftom of their devouring and eat.
ing one another up, that I continued penfive and fad,
and kept clofe within my own Circle for almoft two
Years after this: When I fay my own Circle, I mean
by it, my three Plantations, vik. my Caftle, my Country-Seat, which I call'd my Bower, and my Encloflre
in the Woods; nor did I look after this for any other
Ufe than as an Inclofure for my Goats; for the Averfion which Nature gave me to there helliih Wretches,
was fuch, that I was fearful of feeing them, as of feeing
the Devil himfelf; nor did I fo much as go to look atter my Boat in all this Time; but began rather to think
of making me another; tor I could not think of ever
making any more Attempts to bring the other Boat
round the fland to me, left I Ihould meet with fome
of thefe Creatures at Sea, in which, if I had happen'd
to have fallen into their Hands, 1 knew what would
have been my Lot.
Time however, and the Satisfa&ion I had, that I
was in no Danger of being difcover'd by thefe People,
began to wear off my Uneafinefs about them; and I began to live juft in the fame compos'd Manner as betore; only with this Difference, that I us'd more Caution, and kept my Eyes more about tme than I did before, left I ihould happen to be feen by any of them;
and particularly I was more cautious of firing my Gumn
left any of them on the Ifland, ihould happen to hear
it; and it was therefore a very good Providence to
me, that I had furnfh'd my felf with a tame Breed
of Goatsi that I needed not bhunt any more about the
Woods




Woods, or ihoot at 'em; and if I did catch any of 'em
after this, it was by Traps and Snares, as I had done
before; fo that for two Years after this, I believe I ne
ver fir'd my Gun once off; tho' I never went out without it; and which was more, as I had iav'd three Piftols
out of the Ship, I always carried 'en out with ma, or
at leaft two of them, tflicking them in my Goat- kin
Belt; I alfo furbifi'd up one oftthe great Cutlafhes, that
I had out of the Ship, and made me a Belt to put it on
alfo; fo that I was now a mofl formidable Fellow to
look at, when I went abroad if you add to the former
Defcription of my felf, the Particular of two Piftols,
and a great broad Sword hanging at my Side in a belt,
but without a Scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have faid, for fome Time,
I feem'd, excepting thefe Cautions5 to be reduc'd to my
former calm fedate way of Living, all thefe Things
tended to fhlewing me more and more how far my Condition was from being miferable, ccmpared to fume others; nay, to many other Particulars of Life, which it
might have pleafed God to have made my Lot. It pat
me upon refleting, how little repining there would be
among Mankind, at any Condition of Life, if People
would rather compare their Condition with thofe that
are worfe, in order to be thankful, than be always conparing them  with thofe which are better to aliffi their
Murmurings and Complainings.
As in my prefent Condition there were not really
many Things which I wanted; fo indeed I thought that
the Frights I had been in about thefe Savage Wretches
and the Concern I had been in for my own Prelervation, had taken off the Edge of my Invention for my
own Conveniences:; and Ilhad dropt a good Defign,
which I had once bent. my Thoughts upon; and that
was to try if I could not make fotne of my Barley
into Malt, aid then try to brew my ife'fome Beer:
This was really a whimiical Thought, and I reproved
my felf often forthe Simplicity o' it; for I prefeutly
faw there would b2 the Want of feveral Things necefla,
ry to the making my Beer, that it would be impoffible
for me to Iuipply: As Firfl, Casks to preftrve it in,
which was a Thing that, as I have obiCrv'i. already




I could never compafs: no, tho' I fpentlnotmany Days
but Weeks, nay Months, in attempting it, but to 1io
purp;Fie. In the next place, I had no Hops to make it
keep, no Yeaft to make it work, no Copper or Kettle
to make- it. boil; and yet all thefe Things interven'd,
I mean the Erights and Terrors I was in about the Savages, I had undertcken it, and perhaps brought it to
pais too; for I feldonr gave any Thing over without
accomplifhing it, when I once had it in my Head enough
to begin it.
But my Invention now run quite another Way; for.
Night and Day I could think of nothing but how I
might deltroy ibme of thefe Monfters in their cruel
bloody Entertainment, and if pofible, fave the Vietim
they Ihoujd bring hither to deftroy. It would take up
a larger Volume than this whole Work is intended to
be, to fet down all the Contrivances I hatched, or ra.
ther brooded upon in my Thoughts, for the deflroying
1thfe Creatures, or at leaft frighting 'em, fo as to prevent their coming hither. any more; but all was abortive, nothing could be poffible to take Effzct, unlefs I
was to be there to do it my felf;, and what could one
Man do. among, them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or. thirty of them  together, with their Darts,
or their Bows aad Arrows, witlvwhich they, could lhoot
as true to a Mark, as I could with my Gun?
Sometimes I contriv'd to dig a Hole under the Place
twhere they made their Fire, and put in five or fix Pounds
of Gun-powder, which when they kindled tieir Fire,
would confequently take Fire, and blow up all that
was near it; but as in the firft phace I liould be very.
loth to wafte fo much Powder upon 'em, my Store being now within tlie Quantity of a Barrel.; fo neither
could I be lure of its going off, at any certain time,,
when it might furprize them, and at beft, that it vwould
do little more than juft blow the Fire about their Ears,
and fright them, but not fufficient to make them forfake the Place; lb I laid it. afide, and then propos'd,
that I would place my felf in Ambufh, in fome conveni-.
ent Place, with my three Guns, all double loaded; and
io the middle of their bloody Ceremony let fly at 'em,
When I flould be fure to kill or wund perhaps two or
three




( I62 )
three at every fhoot; and then falling in upon them
with my three Piifols, and my Sword, I made no doubt
but that if there were twenty I fould kill them all;
This Fancy pleas'd my Thoughts for fome Weeks,
and I was fo full of it, that I often dreamt of it;
and fometimes, that I was jufi going to let fly at them
in my Sleep.
I went fo far with it in my Imagination, that I employ'd my felffeveral Days to find out proper Places to
put my filfin Ambu}cade, as I laid, to watch for them;
and   went frequently to the Place itlelf which was
now grown more familiar to me and efpecially while
my Mind was thus fill'd with Thoughts of Revenge,
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to
the Sword, as I may call it; but the Horror I had at the
Place, and at the Signals of the barbarous Wretches
devouring one another, abated my Malice.
Well, at length I found a Place in the Side of the
Hill, where I was fatisfy'd I might fecurely wait, till
I faw any of their Boats coming, and might then,
even betbre they would be ready to come on Shore,
convey myfelf unfeen into Thickets of Trees, in one
of which there was a Hollow large enough to conceal
me entirely; and where I might lit, and obferve all
their bloody Doings, and take my full Aim at their
Heads, when they were ib clofe together, as that it
would be next to impoffible that I fhould mifs my
Shoot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of
them at the firft Shoot.
In this Place then I refolv'd to fix my Defign, and
accordingly I prepar'd two Muskets, and my ordinary
Fowling-Piece. The two Muskets I loaded with a
Brace of Slugs each, and four or five fmller Bullets,
about the Size of Piftol-Bullets; and the Fowling-Piece
I loaded with near a Handful of Swan-Shot, of the
largefl Size; I alfo loaded my Piftols with about four
Bullets each, and in this Pofture, well provided with
Ammunition for a fecond and third Charge, I prepar'd
my filf for my Expedition.
* After I had thus laid the Scheme for my Defign, and
in my Imagination put it in Practice, I continually
made my Tour every Morning up to the Top of the
Hill,




( 163 )
Hill, which was from my Caftle, as I call'd it, about
three Miles, or more, to fee if' I could obferve any
Boats upon the Sea, coming near the Ifland, or ftanding
over towards it; but I began to tire of' this hard Duty, after I had for two or three Months conftantly
kept my Watch; but came always back without any
Diicovery, there having not in all that Time been the
leafi Appearance, not only on, or near the Shore,
but not on the whole Ocean, fo far as my Eyes or Glaffes could reach every Way.
As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill to
look out, bo long alfo I kept up the Vigour of my Defign, and my Spirits feem'd to be all the while in a fuitablc Frame, for fbo outrageous an Execution as the kil.
ling twenty or thirty naked Savages for an Offence
which I had not at all enter'd into a Difcufion of in my
Thoughts, any fiurther than my Paflions were at firft
fir'd by the Horror I conceiv'd at the unnatural Cuftonm of the People of that Country, who it teems had
been fuffer'd by Providence, in his wife Difpofition of
the World, to have no other Guide than that of their
own abominable and vitiated Paflions; and confequently were left, and perhaps had been fo for Ibme Ages, to
a& fuch horrid Things, and receive fuch dreadful Cuftoms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandon'd of Heaven, and ad&ed by fome hellith Degeneracy, could have
run them into: But now when, as I have faid, I began
to be weary ot the fruitlefs Excurfion which I had made
fo long, and fo far, every Morning in vain; fo my Opinion of the A&fion it felf began to alter, and I began
with cooler and calmer Thoughts to confider what it
was I was going to engage in; what Authority or Call I
had, to pretend to be Judge and Executioner upon
thefe Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit
for tob many Ages to fuffer, unpunifh'd, to go on, and
to be as it were, the Executioners of his Judgments,
upon another: Alfo how far thefe People were Offenders againft me, and what Right had I to engage in the
Quarrel of that Blood, which they lied promifcuoufly
one upon another: I debated this very often with my
felf thus, How do I know what God himfelf Judges in
this




< I72 7
this particular Cafe? It is certain thefe People do not
commit this as a Crime, it is not againft their owiv
Confcieices reproving, or their Light reproaching them.
They do not know it to be an Oftence, and then corn.
mit it in defiance of divine Julice, as we do in almolt
all the Sins we commit. They think it no more a Crimn
to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do to kill an
Ox; nor to eat human F'leh, than we do to eat Multton.
When I Irad confider'd this a little, it follov'd neceffarily, that I was-certainly in the Wrong in it; that theie
People were not Murderers in the Senfe that I had be.
fore condemn'd them in my Thoughts; any more than
thofe Chriitians were Murderers, who often put to
Death the Prifoners taken in Battle, or more frequently,
upon many Occafions, put whole Troops of Men to tht
Sword, without giving Quarter, the' they threw down
their Arms and fubmitted.
In the next place it occur'd to me, that albeit the
Utcage they gave one another was thus bruitiih and inhuman; yet it was really nothing to me: Thefe People:
had done me no Injury: That if they attempted me, or
I faw it neceflary tor my immediate 1frefervation to fall
upon them, fomething might be faid for it; but that
I was yet out of their Power, and they had really no
Knowledg of me, and confequently no Defign upon me;
and theretore it could not be juft for me to fall upon
them. That this would juftify the Condu& of the JSpaniards in all their Barbarities praftis'd in America, where
they deflroy'd Millions of thefe People, who, however
they were Idolaters and Barbarians, and had feveral
bloody and barbarous Rites in their Cuifoms, fuch as
facrificing human Bodies to their Idols, were yet, as to
the Spaniards, very innocent People; and that the
rooting 'em out of the Country, is fpoken of with the
utmoft Abhorance and Deteflation, by even the Spaniards themfelves, atthis Time, and by all other Chriflian Nations of Europe, as a mere Butchery, a bloody
and unnatural piece of Cruelty, unjuffifiable either to
God or Man; and fuch, as for which the very Name
o.f a Spaniard is reckon'd to be frightful and terrible to.
all People of Humanity, or of Chriflian Compaffion:
As




1-7
(      I73 )
As if the Kingdom  of Spain were particularly eminent
for the ProduA of a Race of Men, who were without
Principles of Tendernefs, or the common Bowels of
Pity to the Miferable, which is reckon'd to be a Mark
of a 'generous Temper in the Mind.
'lhefe Confiderations really put me to a Paufe, and
to a kind of a full Stop; and I began by little and little
to be offof my Defign, and to conclud&, I had taken
wrong Meafures in my Refolutions to attack the Savage; that it was not my Bufinefs to meddle with 'em,
untefs they firil attack'd me, and this it was my Bufin:is, if poffible, to prevent; but that if I were dilccver'd, and attack'd, then 1 knew mv Duty.
On the other hand, I argu'd with my felf, That thlis
really was the Way net to deliver my felf, but entirely
to ruin and deftroy my felf; for unlefs I was fure to
kill every one that not only illould be on Shore at that
Time, but that fliould ever come on Shore aiterwards,
if but one of them efcap'd, to tell their Country-People what had happen'd, they would come over again by
Thoufands to revenge the Death of their Fellows and
I fllould only bring upon my felf a certain  )eilruction, which at preeent I had no manner of Occafion
for.
Upon the Whole I concluded, that neither in Princi.
ples nor in Policy I ought one Way or other to concern
my fl-f in this Afftir. That my Bufinels was by all
pcflible means to conceal my felf from them, and not
to leave thelcait Signal to them to gueis by, that tlere
were any living Creatures upon the Ifland; I mean of
human Shape.. eligion join'd in with tllis Prudential, and I was
convinc'd now many Ways, that I was perfectly out of
my Duty, when I was laying all my bloody Schemes
for the DeflruAion of innocent Creatures, I mean innocent as,me: As to the Crimes they were gailty of toowards one another, I had nothing to with therm; they
were National Punifllments to make a juf Retribution
for National Offences; and to bring publick Judgments
-upon thole who offend in a publick Manner, by fuch
Ways as beft pleafe him.
This




(     66 )
This appear'd fo clear to me now, -that nothing was
a greater Satisfa&ion to me, than that I had not been
fuffer'd to do a Thing which I now faw fo much Reafon
to believe would have been no lets a Sin, than that of
wilful Murther, if I had committed it; and I gave mofi
humble Thanks on my Knees to God, that had thus
deliver'd me from Blood-guiltinefs; befeeching him to
grant me the Prote&ion of his Providence, that I
might not fall into the Hands ofBarbarians; or that I
might not lay my Hands upon them, unlefs I had a
more clear Call from Heaven to do it, in Defence of
my own Life.
In this Difpofition I continu'd for near a Year after
this; and fo tar was I from defiring an Occafion for
falling upon thefe Wretches, that in all that Time I never once went up the Hill to fee whether there were
any of them in Sight, or to know whether any of them
had been on Shore there, or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew any of my Contrivances againit them,
or be provoked by any Advantage which might prefint
it felf to fall upon them; only this I did, I went and
removed my Boat, which I had on the other Side the
Ifland, and carried it down to the Eaft End of the
whole Ifland, where I ran it into a little Cove, which
I found under fome high Rocks, and where I knew, by
reafonoftheCurrents, the Savages durft not, at leaft
would not come with their Boats, upon any Acccunt
whatfoever.
With my Boat I carried away every Thing that I
had left there belonging to her, tho' not neceffary for
the bare going thither, via. A Maft and Sail, which I
had made for her, and a Thing like an Anchor, but indeed which could not be call'd either Anchor or Grapling; however, it was the beft I could make ofits kind:
All there I remov'd, that there might not J)e the leaft
Shadow of any Dilcovery, or any Appearance of any
Boat, or of any human Habitation upon the fland.
Befides this, I kept my felf, as I faid, more retired
than ever, and feldom went from my Cell, other than
upon my conftant Employment, via. to mik my SheGoats, and manage my little Flock in the Wood; which,
as it was quite on the other Part of the Ifland, was
quite




( 67 )
quite out of Danger:. For certain it is, that thefe fa.
rage People, who Sometimes haunted this Ifland, never
came with any Thoughts of finding any thing here,
and confequently never wandred off from the Coaft;
and I doubt not, but - they might have been feveral
times on Shore, after my Apprehenfions of them had
made me cautious,, as well as before; and, indeed, I
look'd back with iome Horror upon the Thoughts of
what my Condition would have been, if I had chop'd
upon them, and been difcover'd befbre that, when naked
and unarm'd, except with one Gun, and that loaded
often only with fmall Shot. I walked every where
peeping, and peiring about the Iland, to fee what I
could get; what a 5urprize Ihould I have been in, if,
when 1 difcover'd the Print of a Man's Foot, I had inflead of that feen fifteen or twenty Savages, and found
them purfuing me, and by the Swiftnefs of their Running, no Pofibility of my efcaping them?
The Thoughts of this Sometimes funk my very Soul
within me, and diftrefs'd my Mind fo much, that I
could not foon recover it; to think what I fhould have
done, and how I not only flould not have been able to
refift them, but even thould not have had Prefence of
Mind enough to do what I might have done; much
lefs, what now after fo much Confideration and Preparation I might be able to do: Indeed, after ferious
thinking of thefe Things, I would be very melancholy,
and fometimes it would laft a great while; but I..efolv'd it at lad all into Thankfulnefs to that Providence
w;.ich had deliver'd me from fo many unfeen Dangers,
and had kept me from thofe Mifchiefs which I could
no way have been the Agent in delivering my felffrom;
becaufe I had not the leaft Notion of any fuch Thing
depending, or the leaft Suppofition of its being poft
fible.
This renewed a Contemplation, which often had
come to my Thoughts in former Time, when firft I
began to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven, in the
Dangers we run thro' in this Life: How wonderfully
we are deliver'd, when we know nothing of it. How
when we are in ( a Vuandary, as we call it) a Doubt or
Hefitation, whether to go this Way, or that Way, a
fecret




( I68 )
feCret Hint fhall aire& us this Way, when we ii-tenade
to go that Way; nay, when Senie, our own Inclination, and perhaps Bulinefs has call'd to go the other
Way, yet a firange Impreflion upon the Mind, from we
know not what Springs, and by we know not what'
Power, fhall over-rule us to go this Way; and it ihall
afterwards appear, that had we gone that Way which
we fhould have gone, and even to our Imagination
ought to have gone, we Ihould have been ruin'd and
loft:  Upon thefe, and mn)ny like Reflefions, I afterwards made it a certain Rule with me, That whenever
I found thofe lecret Hints, or Preffings of my Mind, to
doing, or not doing any thing that prefented, or to
going this Way, or that Way, I never fail'd to obly
the fecret Diclate; tho' I knew no other Reafon fbr it,
than that fuch a Preffure, or fuch a Hint hung upon my
Alind: I could give many Examples of the 6uccels of
this Condu& in the Courfe of nimy Life; but more efpe.
cially in the latter Part of my inhabiting this unhappy
Ifland; befides many Occafions which it is very likely
I might have taken notice of, 'if I had feen with the
fame Eyes then, that I faw with now: But 'tis never.too late to be wile; and I cannot but advife all confidering Menl, whofe Lives are attended with futch extraordinary Incidents as mine, or even tho' not lo extras
-ordinary, not to flight fuch fecret Intimations of Providence, let them come from what invifible-Intelligence
they will, thatI fliall not difcufs, and perhaps cannot
account fbr; but certainly they are a Proorof the Converfe of Spirits, and the fecret Communication between
thofe embody'd, and thofe iunembody'd; and fuch a
Proof as can never be withtlood.: Of which I ihall-have
Occafion to give fome very remarkable Inffances in the
Remainder of my folitary Refidence,in this diftial
Place.
I believe the Reader of this will not think ftrange,
if I confets tha't thefe Anxieties, thefe conftant Dangers
I liv'd in, and the Concern that was now upon me,
put an End to all Invention, and to all the Contrivances that I had laid for my future Accommodations
and Conveniences. I had the Care of mY Safety more
now upon my Hands, than that of my Food& I car'd
0ot




( 169    )
not to drive a Nail, or chop a Stick of Wood now, for
fear the Noife I fhould make fhould be heard; much
lets would I fire a Gun, for the fame Reafon; and above
all, I was intolerably uneaiy at making any Fire, left
the Smoak, which is vifible at a great Diftance in the
Day, fhould betray me; and for this Reafon I remov'd
that Part of my Bufinefs which requir'd Fire, fuch as
burning of Pots and Pipes, Uc. into niy new Apartment in the Woods; where, after I had been feme
Time, I found, to my unfpeakable Confolation, a mere
natural Cave in the Earth, which went in a vait way,
and where, I dare fay, no Savage, had he been at the
Mouth of it, would be fo hardy as to venture in, nor
indeed would any Man elfe, but one who, like me, wanted nothing (o much as a fafe Retreat.
The Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom of a
great Rock, where, by mere Accident (I would fay,
it I did not fee abundant Reafon to afcribe all fucll things
now to Providence ) I was cutting down Ibme thick
Branches of Trees, to make Charcoal; And before-I go
on, I nmuf obferve the Reafon of my making this Charcoal, which was thus:
I was afraid of making a Smoak about my Habitation, as I faid before; and yet I could not live there
without baking my Bread, cooking my Meat, Cic. fo I
contrived to burn fome Wood here, as I had feen done
in England under Turf, till it became Chark, or dry
Coal; and then putting the Fire out, I preferv'd the
Coal to carry home, and& perform the other Services,
which Fire was wanting for, at home, without Danger
of Smoak.
But this by the by: While I was cutting down rome
Wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
Branch of low Brufh-wood, or Under-wood, there was
a kind of hollow Place: I was curious to look into it,
and getting with Difficulty into the Mouth of it, I
found it was pretty large, that is to fay, fufficient for
me to ftand upright in it, and perhaps another with
nle; but I muff confefs to you, I made more hafe out
than I did in, when looking further into the Place,
which was perfe&ly dark, I law two broad Ihining Eyes
of fume Creature, whether Devil or Man, I knew not,
I                    which




( 170 ),,^liich twinkled like two Stars, the dim Light from the
Cave's Mouth Ihining dire&ly in, and making the ReP,fleaion.
However, after fome Paufe, I recovered my felf, and
began to call my felf a thoufand Fools, and tell my
felt, that he that was afraid to fee the Devil, was not
fit to live twenty Years in an Ifland all alone; and
that I durft to believe there was nothing in this Cave
that was more frightful than my felf: Upon this, plucking up my Courage, I took up a great Firebrand, and
in I rufh'd again, with the Stick flaming in my
Hand: I had not gone three Steps in, but I was almoft.as much fiighted as I was before; for I heard a very
loud Sigh, like that of a Man in tome Pain, and it was
followed by a broken Noile, as if of Words half exprels'd, and then a deep Sigh again: I flep'd back, and
was indeed ftruck with fuch a Surprize, that it put me
into a cold Sweat; and if I had had a Hat on my Head,
I will not anfwer for it, that my Hair might not have
lifted it off. But fill plucking up my Spirits as well
as I could, and encouraging my fetl a little, with cona
fidering that the Power and Prefence of God was every where, and was able to protee  me; upon this I
ilep'd forward again, and by the Light of the Firebrand, holding it up a little over my Head, I law ly-,
ing on the Ground a molf monilrous frightful old HeGoat, jual making his Will, as we ly, gafping for Life,
and dying indeed of meer old Age.
I ftir'd him a little, to Ifeeji I could get him out,
and he effay'd to get up, but was not able to raife himfelf; and I thought with my felft he might e'en lie
there; for if he had fiighted me fo, he would certainly
fright any of the Savages, if any of them Ihould be
fa hardy as to come in there, while he had any Lite
in him.
I was now recover'd from my Surprize, and began.to look round me, when I found the Cave was but
very finall, that is to fay, it might be about twelve
Foot over, but in no manner of Shape, either round or
quare, no Hands having ever been employed in mak'
ing it, but thofe of meer Nature.: I obferv'd alfo, that
there was a Place at the further Side of it that went in
furthber




( I7I )'
further, but was fo low, that it required me to creep
upon my Hands and Knees to go into if, and whether
it went I knew not; fo having no Candle, I gave it
over for ibme time, but refolved to come again thenext Day, provided with Candles, and a Tinder-Box,
which I had made of the Lock of one. of the Muskets,
with fome Wild-fire in the Pan.
Accordingly, the next Day I came provided with
fix large Candles of my own making, for I made very
good Candles now of Goat's Tallow; and going into
this low Place, I was obliged to creep upon all Fours,
as I have laid, almoft ten Yards; which, by the way,
I thought was a Venture bold enough, confidering
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was beyond it: When I was get thro' the Strait, I found the
Roof rofe higher up, I believe near twenty Foot; but
never was fuch a glorious Sight feen in the Ifland, I
dare fay, as it was, to look round the Sides and Roof
of this Vault or Cave: The Vt alls refle&ed a hundred
thoufand Lights to me from my two Candles; what it
was in the Rock, whether Diamonds, or any other precious Stones, or Gold, which I rather fhppolfd it to
be, I knew not.
The Place I was in, was a nlof delightful Cavity, or
Grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, tho' perfe&ly dark; the Floor was dry and level, and had a fort
off'mnll loofe Gravel upon it; bt that there was no
naufeous or venomons Creature to be feen, neither was
there any Damp or Wet on the Sides or Roof: The
only Difficulty in it was the Entrance, which, however,
as it was a Place of Security, and fich a Retreat as I
vwanted, I thought that was a Convenience; fo that I
was really rejoiced at the-Difcovery,' and refolved,
without any Delay, 'to bring fome of thofe things which
I was moft anxious about, to this Place; particularly,
I refolv'd to bring hither ny Magazine of Powder, and
all my fprye Arms, vi. Two Fowling-Pieces, (for I
had three in all ) and three MIlskets, (for of them I had
tight in all) lo I kept at my Caftle only five, which
ftood ready mounted, like Pieces of Cannon, on my
~ utmoft Fence; and were ready alfo to take out upon
any Expedition.
1 2                Upon




( I72 )
Upon this Occafion of removing my Ammunition;
I was oblig'd to open the Barrel of Powder which I
took up out of the Sea, and which had been wet; and
I found that the Water had penetrated about three or
four Inches into the Powder on every fide, which caking and growing hard, had preferved the Infide like a
Kernel in a Shell; fo that I had near fixty Pounds of
very good Powder in the Centre of the Cask; and this
was an agreeable Dilcovery to me at that time; fo I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or
three Pounds ot Powder with me in my Cafle, for
fear of a Surprize of any kind: I alfo carried thither all
the Lead I had left for Bullets.
I fancied my felf now like one of the ancient Giants,
which were laid to live in Caves and Holes in tile
Rocks, where none could come at them; for I perfwaded my felf, while I was here, if five hundred
Savages were to hunt me, they could never find me
out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack
me here.
The old Goat, who I found expiring, died in the
Mouth of the Cave, the next Day after I made this
Difcovery; and I found it much eafier to dig a great
Hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with
Earth, than to drag him out: So I interr'd him there,
to prevent Offence to my Nofe.
I was now in my twenty-third Year of Refidence in
this I and, and was fo naturalized to the Place, and
to the Manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed
the Certainty, that no Savages would come to the
Place to dslturb me, I could have been content to
have capitulated for fpending the reft of myTime there,
even to the lafi Moment, till I had laid me down and
died, like the old Goat in the Cave: I had alfo arriv'd to Ibme little Diverfionsand Amufements, which
nmade the Time pafs more pleafantly with me a great
deal than it did before; at firft, I had taught my Poll,
as I noted before, to fpeak; and he did it lb familiarly, and talk'd tb articulately and plain, that it was
very pleafant to me; and he lived with me no lels
than iix and twenty Years: How long he might live
afterwards, I know not; tho' I know they have a Notion




( 1I73   )
tion in the Brafils, that they live a hundred Years;
perhaps fome of my Pdlls may be alive there flill, calling
after Pt,or Robin Cruj>e to this Day; I wiih no En;gljhbman the ill Lu:k to come there and lear them, but if he
did, le would certainly believe it was the Devil. My
Dog was a very pleafant and loving Comlpanion to me
for no lets than fixteen Years of my Time, and then
died of-meer old Age; as for my Cats, they multiplyed, as I have obferved, to that degree, that I was obliged
to fhoot Ieveral of them at firil, to keep them from de.
vouring me and all I had; but at length, when the
two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after
fome time continually driving them from me, and letting them have no Provifion with me, they all ran
wild into the Woods, except two or three Favourites,
which I kept tame, and whofe Young, when they had
any, I always drown'd, and thefe were part of my
Family: Befides thefe, I always kept two or three
Houfhold Kids about me, which I taught to feed out
of my Hand; and I had alfo more Parrots, which
talk'd pretty well, and would all call Robin Crufoe, but
none like my firft; nor indeed, did I take the Pains
with any of them that I had done with him: I had allb
feveral tame Sea-Fowls, whofe Names I know nut,
which I caught upon the Shore, and cut their 'Wings;
and the little Stakes which I had planted before my Caftle-Wall, being now grown up to a good thick Grove,
thefe Fowls all lived among thefe low  Trees, and bred
there, which was very agreeable to me; lo that, as I
faid above, I began to be very well contented with the
Life I led, if it might but have been fecured from the
Dread of the Savages.
But it was otherwife dire6ted; and it may not be amifs for all People who fhall meet with my Story, to
make this jul Obfervation from it, vid. How frequently,
in the Courfe of our Lives, the Evil which in it felf
we feek mofi to fhun, and which, when we are fallen
into, is the moft dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very
means or door of our Deliverance, by which alone we
can be rais'd again from the Afflifion we are fallen into:
I could give many Examples of this in the Courfe of my.
Unaccountable Life; but in nothing was it more partiI 3              cularly




( I74    )
etlarlv re:ai-a;rdle than in the Circumnltances of my
lalt Years of iolitary Rciidence in this Ifand.
It was now the Month of December, as I faid above,
in my twenty-third Year; and this being the obuthern
Solice, for V, inter I cannot call it, was the particular
Time of my HEarveft, and required my being pretty
muAh abroad in the Fields; when going out pretty
early in the MIorning, even before it w-as thorow Daylight, I was furpriz'd with fecing a Light of fome Fire
upon the Shore, at a diftance tiom me, of about two
Miles, towards the end of'the Ifland, where I had obl
ferved fonie Savages had been, as before; but not on the
cther Side, but to my great Affliaion, it was on my
Side of the Ifland.
I was indeed terribly farpriz'd at the Sight, and flopt
aiort wvithin 1my Grove, not daring to go out left I
might be fitlrpri'd; and yet I had no more Peace within, trom my Apprehenfions I had, that if thefe Savages,
in rambling over the Ifland, fihotld find my Corn
fianding, or cut, or any of ny Works and Improvenients, they would immediately conclude, that there
were People in the Place, and would then never give
ever till they found me out: In this Extremity I went
back direc'ly to my Caftle, pull'd up the Ladder after
le, having made all things without look as wild andnatural as I could.
Then I prepared my felf within, putting my felf in
a Poflure of Defence; I loaded all my Cannon, as I
call'd them; ttb is to fqy, my Mluskets, which were
mounted upon my new Fortification, and all my Piftols
and refolv'd to defend my felf to the laft Gafp; not
forgetting ferioufly to commend my felf to the divine
Prote&ion, and earneftly to pray to God to deliver me
out of the Hands of tlhe Barbarians; and in this Pofture I continu'd about two Ho'rs, but began to be mighty impatient for Intelligence abroad, for I had ro Spiesto fend out.
After fitting a while longer, and mufing what f
fhould do in this Cafe, I was not able to bear fitting in
Jgnorance any longer; fb letting up my Ladder to the
fide of the Hill, where there was a flat Place, as I obferved before, and then ptlling the Ladder up afteIII,




( t75    )
nie, I iAt it up again, and mounted to the Top'of the HlIilI,
and pulling out my Perfpe6eive-Glalh, which I had taken on purpofe, I laid me down flat on nmy Belly on
the Ground, and began to look for the Place: I prefently found there were no leTs than nine naked Savages
fitting round a fnlall Fire, they had made; not to wjrm
them, for they had no need of that, the Weather being
extream hot; but, as I fuppos'd, to drefs iome of their
barbarous Diet of human Flefh, which they    had
brought with them, whether alive or dead, I could not
know.
They had two Canoes with them, which they had
haled up upon the Shore; and as it was then Tide of
Ebb, they feem'd to me to wait for the Return of the
Flood, to go away again; it is nor eafy to imagine
what Confuiion this Sight put me into, efpecially feeing them come on my fide the Ifland, and fo near me
too; but when I obferv'd their coming muft be always with the Current of the Ebb, I began afterwards
to lIe more fedate in my Mind, being fatisfy'd that I
might go abroad with fafety all the Time of the Tide
of Flood, if they were not on Shore before; And having made this Oblfrvation, I went abroad about nmy
Iarveft-Work with the more Compofure.
As I expeCsd, fo it proved, for as foon as the Tide
made to the Weftward, I law them all take Boat; and
row (or paddle, as we call it) all away: I fhould have
obferv'd, that for an Hour and more before they went
off, they went to dancing, and I could eafily difcern
their Poflures and Geftures by my Glaffes: I could not
perceive, by my niceft Obfervation, but that they were
flark naked, and had- not the leaft Covering upon threm
but whether they were Men or Women, that I could
not diflinguifh.
As foon as I faw them fhip'd and gone, I took two
Guns upon my Shoulders, and two lPiflols at my Gir.
dle, and my great Sword by my fide, without a Scablard, and with all the Speed I was able to make, I
went away to the Hill, where I had difcover'd the firit
Appearance of all; As foon as I got thither, which
was not lefs than two Hours, (for I could not go apace
being fo loaden with Arms as I was) I perceiv'd there
I 4                had




(   76)
had been three Canoes more of Savages on that Place }
and looking out further, I faw they were all at Sea-together, making over for the Main.
This was a dreadful Sight to me, efpecially when
going down to the Shore, I could fee the Marks of
Horror which the difmal Work they had been about had
left behind it, vi. the Blood, the Bones, and Part of
the Flefli of human Bodies, eaten and devoured by
thofe Wretqhes, with Merriment and Sport; I was fo
filid with Indignation at the Sight, that I began now
to premeditate tile DeflrlUtion of the next that I law
there, let them be who or how many Ibever.
It fieem'd evident to me, that the Vifits which they
thus made to this lfland, were not very frequent; for it
was above fifteen Months before any more of them
came on Shore there again; that is tofay, I never law
them, or any Footfteps, or Signals of them, in all that
Time; for as to the rainy Sealbns, then they are lure
not to come abroad, at leaft not ib far; yet all this
while I lived unc:mfortably, by reafon of the conflant
A pprehenfions I was in of their coming upon me by
furprize-; from whence I obferve, that the Expe&fation
of Evil is more bitter than the Suffering, efpecially
if there is no room to flake off that Expeaation, or
thofe Apprehenfions.
During all this time, I was in the murthering Humour; and took up moil of my Hours, which Ihould
have been better em'ployed,in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I fllould fee
them; efpecially if they fiould be divided, as they
were the lalf time, into two Parties; nor did I confider at all, that if I kil'd one Party, fitppofe ten or a
dozen, I was ftill the next Day, or Week, or Month,
to kill another, and fb, another, even ad ininitum, till
I thould be at length no leTs a Murtherer than they
were in being Man-eaters, and perhaps much more
fo.
I fpent my Days now in great Perplexity and Anxiety of Mind, expe&ing that I fhould one Day or other fallinto the Hands of thefe mercilefs Creatures;
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking round me with the greateft Care and
Caution




( 177 )
Caution imaginable; and now I found to my great
Comfort, how happy it was that I had provided for a
tame Flock or Herd of Goats; for I durft not upon any
account fire my Gun, efpecially near that fide of the
Ifland where they ufually came, left I fhould alarm the
Savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was fure
to have them come back again, with perhaps two or
three hundred Canoes with them  in a few Days, and
then I knew what to expe&t.
However, I wore out a Year and three Months more,
before I ever faw any more of the S avages, and then
I found them again, as I ihall loon obferve: It is true,
they might have been there once or twice; but either
they made no Stay,, or at leaft, I did not hear them;
but in the Month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my four and twentieth Year, I had a very ftrange
Encounter with them, of which in its Place.
The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fifteen or
fixteen Months Interval, was very great; I flept unquiet, dreamt always frightful Dreams, and often ftarted out of my Sleep in the Night: In the Day great
Troubles overwhelmed myMind, in the Night I dreamt
often of killing the Savages, and the Reafons why I
might juftify the doing of it: But to wave all this for a
while; it was in the middle of May, on the fixteentll
Day I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar
would reckon; for I mark'd all upon the Poft flill; I
lay, it was on the fixteenth of May, that it blew a very
great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great deal of
Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul Night it was
after it: I know not what was the particular occafion
of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with ferious Thoughts about my prefent Condition, [
was furpriz'd with the Noife of a Gun, as I thought,
fiy'd at Sea.
This was to be fure a Surprize of a quite different
Nature from any I had met with before; for the Notions this put into my Thoughts were quite of another
kind: I ftarted up in the greateft Haite imaginable
and in a trice clapt my Ladder to the middle Place of
the Rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the
Sicond Time, got to the Top of the Hill; that very Mo.
5                  menr




( T78    )
trent a Flafhi of Fire bid me liften for a fecond Gutrr
which accordingly, in about halt' a Minute, I heard,
and by the Sound knew that it was from that Part of
the Sea where I was driven out with the Current in
13cat.
I immediately confider'd that this muft be fome Ship
in Diftrefs, and that they had fome Comrade, or fome
other Ship in Company, and fir'd thefe Guns for Sig7
nals of Diftr.efs, and to obtain Help: I had this Preience of Mind at that Minute, as to think, that tho'
I could not help them, it may be they might help me;
fo I brought together all the dry Wood I could get at;
hand, and making a good handfome Pile, I let it on
Fire upon the Hill; the Wood was dry, and blaz'd freely, and tho' the Wind blew very hard, yet it burnt
fairly out, fo that I was certain, if there was any fuch
Thing as a Ship, they nmul needs fee it, and no doubt
they did, for as foon as ever my Fire blaz'd up, I heard
another Gun, and after that feveral others, all from the
fame Quarter: I ply'd my Fire all Night long, till
Day broke; and when it was broad Day, and the Air
clear'd up, I faw fomnething at a great Diflance at Sea,
full EaJt of the Ifland, whether a Sail, or a Hull, I
could not diflinguifl, no not with my Glaffes, the
Diflance was fo great, and the Weather Dtill fomething
hazy alfo; at leait it was Co out at Sea.
I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and foon perceiv'd that it di4 not move; fo I prefently concluded
that it was a Ship at an Anchor; and being eager, you
may be fure, to be fatisfy'd, I took my Gun in my
Hand, and ran toward the So&tbh Eafl Side of the Ifland,
to the Rocks where I had formerly been ca ry'd away
with the Current, and getting up there, the 'Weather
by this Time being perfealy clear, I could plainly lee,
to my great Sorrow, the Wreck of a Ship caft away
in the Night upon thofe concealed Rocks which I found
wvhe I was out in my Boat; and which Rocks, as they
check'd the Violence of the Stream, and made a kind
of Gounter-Stream or Eddy, were the Occafion of my
recovering then from the moft defperate hopelefs Condition that ever I had been in i all y Life.
Thus




Thus, what is one Man's Safety, is another Man's
Defirution; for it feems thefe Men, whoever they
were, being out of their Knowledge, and the Rocks being wholly under Water, had been driven upon them
in the Night, the Wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E.
Had they feen the I fland, as I mufll neceffarily fuppofe
they did not, they mufd, as I thought, have endeavour'd to have fav'd themfelves on Shore by the Help
of' their Boat; but their firing off Guns for Hdp, efpecially when they 1aw, as I imagin'd, my Fire, fillede
me with many Thoughts: Firft I imagin'd, that upon
feeing my Light, they might have put themfelves into
their Boat, and have endeavour'd to make the Shore,
but that the Sea going very high, they might have
been caft away; other times I imagin'd, that they
might have loft their Boat before, as might be the
Cafe many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of
the Sea upon their Ship, which many times obliges
Men to flave, or take in pieces their Boat; and tometimes to throw it over Board with their own- Hands:
Other times I imagin'd, they had t'om other Ship or
Ships in Cotnpany, who, upon the Signals of Diflrefs
they had made, had taken them up and carried them
off: Other whiles I fancied, they were all gone off to
Sea in their Boat, and being hurried away by the
Current that I had been formerly in, were carry'd out
into the great Ocean where there was nothing but Mir
fery and Periffihing; and that perhaps. they might by
this Time think of ftarving, and of being in a Condition to eat one another.
As all thefe were but Conjedeures at bell, fo in the
Condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the Milery of the poor Men, and pity them;
which had ftill this good Effe& on my $ide, that it
ga ve me more and more Caufe to give Thanks to
Cod, who had fo happily and comfortably provided
for me in my defolate Condition and that of two Ships
Cqnmpnpies who were now caft away upon this Part
of the World, not one Life fhould be fpar'd but mine;:
I learnt here again to obtbrve, that it is very rare that
the Providence of God cafts us into any Condition of
Lite fo low, or any Mifery fo grear but we may fee
r *    "    ".                             fOtW



( iSo )fomething or other to be thankful for; and may fee o'
thers in worfe Circumfiances than our own.
Such certainly was the Cafe of thefe Men, of whom
I could not fo much as fee Room to fuppofe any of
them were fav'd; nothing could make it rational, fo
much as to wifl or expeft that they did not all perill
there, except the Poffibility only of their being taken
up by another Ship in Company: And this was but
mere Poffibility indeed; for I faw not the leaft Signal
or Appearance of any fitch Thing.
I cannot explain, by any poffible Energy of Words,
what a ifrange Longing or Hankering of Defires I felt
in my Soul upon this Sight; breaking out fometimes
thus: O that there had been but one or two, nay, or
but one Soul fav'd out of the Ship, to have efcap'd to
me, that I might but have had one Companion, one
iellow-Creature to have fpoken to me, and to have
convers'd with! In all the Time of my folitary Life,
I never felt fo earneft, to ftrong a Defire after the Society of my Fellow-Creatures, or tb deep a Regret at
the Want of it.
There are tome fecret moving Springs in the Affections, wfiich, when they are let a-going by fome Obje& in View, or be it fome Object, though not in View,
yet render'd prefent to the Mind by the Power of Imagination, that Motion carries out the Soul by its Imp)tuofity to fu-h violent, eager Embracings of the Objet, that the Abience of it is infupportable.
Such were there earnet Wifhings, That but one Man
had blen fav'd! 0 that it had been but One! I believe
I repeated the Words, 0 that it had been but One! a
thoufand times; and the Defires were fo nlov'd by it,
that when I fpoke the Words, my Hands would clinch
together, and my Fingers prefs the Palms of my Hands,
that if I had had any loft Thing in my Hand, it wouold
have crulfh'd it involuntary; and my Teeth in my Head
would ftrike together, and fet againft one another fo
firong, that for fome time I could not patt them
again.
Let the Naturalifts explain thefe Things, and the
Reafon and Manner of them; all I can fay of them, is,
to defcribe the Fa&, which was eyes furprizing to me
when




( i8I )
when I found it, tho' I knew not from what it flouldc
proceed; it was doubtlefs the Effeft of ardent Withes,
and of firong Ideas form'd in my Mind, realizing the
Comfort which the Converfation of one of my FellowChriftians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their Fate, or mine, or
both, forbid it; for till the laf Year of my being on
this lfWand, I never knew, whether any were fav'd out
of that Ship or no; and had only the Affliiion folne
Days after, to fee the Corps of a drown'd Boy come
on Shore, at the End of the Ifland, which was next
the Shipwreck: He had on no Cloaths, but a Seaman's
Waftcoat, a Pair of open knee'd Linnen Drawers, and
a blue Linnen Shirt; but nothing to dire& me fo much
as to guefs what Nation he was of: He had nothing in
his Pocket but two Pieces of Eight and a TobaccoPipe; the laft was to me of ten times more Value than
the firft.
It was now calm, and I had a great Mind to venture
out in my Boat to this Wreck; not doubting but I
might find fomething on Board, that might be uf{tul
to ma; but that did not altogether prefs me fo much,
as the Poflibility that there might be yet fome living
Creature on Board, whole Life I might not only fave,
but might, by faving that Life, comfort my own' to
the laft Degree; and this Thought clung fo to nW
Heart, that I could not be quiet, Night or Day, but
I mull venture out in my Boat on Board this Wreck;
and committing the reft to God's Providence, I thought
the Impreffion was fo firong upon my Mind, that it
could not be refilled, that it muft come from fome vifible Dire&fion, and that I fhould be wanting to my
felf, it I did not go.
Under thePower of this Impreffion, I haften'd back
to my Caftle, prepar'd every Thing for my Voyage,
took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot for frefil Water, a Compafs to fleer by, a Bottle of Rum, ( for I had
ftill a great deal of that left) a Basket'full ofRaifins:
And thus loading my felf with every thing neceffary, I
went down to my Boat, got the Water out of her, and
got her afloat, loaded all my Cargo in her, and then
went Home again for more; My fecond Cargo was a
great




( I82.  )
great Bag full of Rice, the Umbrella to fet up over nmy
Hlead for Shade, another large Pot full of frefh Water,
and about two Dozen of my fmall Loaves, or Barley
Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of Goat's Milk,
and a Cheefe; all which, with great Labour and Sweat,
I brouight to my Boat, and praying to God to direA
my Voyage,. I put out, and rowing or paddling the.
Canoe along the Shore, I came at lalt to the utnoft
Point of the Ifland, on that Side, ( vi. ) N. E. And
now I was to lunch out into the Ocean, and either
to venture, or not to venture; I look'd on the rapid.
Currents which ran conftantly on both Sides of theIffand, at a Diftance, and which were very terrible to
me, from the Remembrance of the Hazard I had been
in before, and my Heart began to fail me; for I forefaw that if I was driven into either of thofe Currents,
I ihould be carried a vaft Way out to Sea, and perhaps
out of my Reach, or Sight of the Ifland again; and that
then, as my Boat was but fmall, if any little Gale of
Wind fhould rife, I fhould be inevitably loft.
Thefe Thoughts fo opprefs'd mv vlind, that I began to give over my Enterprize, and having haled my
Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, I ftept out, and
fat me down upon a little rifing hit of Ground, very
penfive and anxious, between Fear and Deiire about
my Voyage; when, as I was mufing, I could perceive
that the Tide was turn'd and the Flood came on, Upon
which my going was for fo many Hours impral&icable: Upon this prefently it occur'd to me, that I
ihould go up tothe higheil Piece of Ground I coulc
find, and obterve, if I could, how the Sets of the Tide
or Currents lay, when the Flood came in, that I might
judge whether, if I was driven one Way out, I might
not expe& to be driven another Way home, with the
fame -Rapidnefs of the Currents:, This Thought was Po
fooner it my Head, but I caft my Eye upon a little
Hill, which fuificiently overlook'd the Sea both ways}
and: from whence I had a clear View of the.Currents,
or Sets of the Ti4e, and which Way I was to. guide
my felf in my Return: Here I found, that as the Curl
rent of the Ebb fet out clofe by the South Point of the
lAd,Mn, fo te  r w urent io tl^-l! o.d f in4 clofe by tl~s:                                           hort




'(   83 ))
fcre of the North Side, and that I had nothing. to do
Ibut to keep to the North of the Inland in my Return,
and I fiould do well enough.
Encourag'd with this Oblervation, I refolv'd the next
Morning to fet out with the firft of the Tide; and repofing my felf for that Night in the Canoe, under the
great Watch-Coat I mention'd, I launch'd out: I made
ihrf a little out to Sea full North, till I began to feel
the Benefit of the Current, which fet Eaftward, and
which carried me at a great Rate, and yet did not fo
hurry me as the Southern Side Current had done before,
and fo as to take from me all Government of the Boat;
but having a frong Steerage with my Paddle, I went,
Jjay, at a great Rate, dire&ly for the Wreck, and in lets
than two Hours I came up to it.
It was a difmal Sight to look at: The Ship, which
by its Building was spanijh, (tuck faft, jaum'd in between two Rocks; all the Stern and Quarter of her was
beaten to Pieces with the Sea; and as her Forecatle,
which {luck in the Rocks, had run on with great Violence, her Mainmaft and Foremaft were brought by the
Board, that is to fay, broken fhort off;, but her Boltfprit was found, and the Head and Bow appear'd firm:
When I came clofe to her, a Dog appear'd upon her,
who feeing me coming, yelp'd and cry'd, and as Loon
as I call'd him, jump'd into the Sea, to come to me,
and I took him into the Boat, but found him almoft
dead for Hunger and Thirft: I gave him a Cake of
my Bread, and he eat it like a ravenous Wolf, that had
been flarving a Fortnight in the Snow: I then gave the
poor Creature fome freth Water, with which, ifIl would
have let him, he would have burft himfelf.
After this I went on Board; The firft Sight I
met with, was two Men drown'd! the Cook-Room,
or Forecaftle of the Ship, with their Arms fadl about
one another: I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the Ship truck, it being in a Storm, the Sea
broke lo high, and fo continually over her, that the
Men were not able to bear it, and were ftrangled with
the conflant rufhing in of the Water, as much asif they
had been under Water: Befides the Dog, there was
nothing left in the Ship that had Life, nor any Goods
that




( 184 )
that I could fee, but what were fpoil'd by the Water
There were fome Casks of Liquor, whether Wine or
Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the Hold, and
which, the Water being ebb'd out, I could fee, but
they were too big to meddle with: I faw feveral Chefts,
which I believ'd belong'd to fome of the Seamen, and
I got two of them into the Boat, without examining
what was in them.
Had the Stern of the Ship been fix'd, and the Forepart broken off, I am peritaded I might have made a
good Voyage; for by what I found in thefe two Chefis,
I had room to fuppofe the Ship had a great deal of
Wealth on Board; and if I may guefs by the Courfe
fhe fleer'd, Ihe mull have been bound from the Buenos
Aires, or the Rio de la iPlata, in the South-Part of America, beyond the Brafils, to the Havana, in the Gulph
of Mexico, and fo perhaps to Spain: She had, no doubt,
a great Treafiire in her, but of'no Ufe at that time to
any Body; and what became of the reft of her People,
I then knew not.
I found, befides there Chefts, a little Cask full of
Liquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got into my
Boat, with much Difficulty: There were feveral Muskets in a Cabbin, and a great Powder-Horn, with about four Pounds of Powder in it; as for the Muskets, I
had no occafion for them, fo I left them, but took the
Powder-Horn: I took a Fire-fhovel and Tongs, which
I wanted extremely; as alfo two little Brafs-Kettles, a
Copper-Pot to make Chocolate, and a Gridiron; and
with this Cargo, and the Dog, I came away, the Tide
beginning to make home again; and the fame Eve.
ning. about an Hour within Night, I reach'd the Ifland
again, weary and fatigu'd to the laft Degree.
I repos'd that Night in the Boat, and in the Morning I refolv'd to harbour what I had gotten in my new
Cave, not to carry it home to my CatIle: After refreihing my felf, I got all my Cargo on Shore, and began to examine the Particulars: The Cask of Liquor I
found to be a kind of Rum, but not fuch as we had at
the Brafils; and in a Word, not at all good; but when
I came to open the Chefts, I found feveral things of
great Ufe to me: For Example, I found in one a fine
Cafe




(,85 )
Care of Bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and fill'&
with. Cordial Waters, fine, and very good; the Botties held about three Pints each, and were tip'd with
Silver: I found two Pots of very good Succades, or
Sweetmeats, fo faften'd alto on Top, that the falt Water had not hurt them; and two more of the fame,
which the Water had fpoil'd: I found fome very good
Shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a
dozen and a half'of Linnen white Handkerchiefs, and
colour'd Neckcloths; the former were alfo very welcome, being exceeding refilefhing to wipe my Face in a
hot Day; betides this, when I came to the Till in the
Chefls, I found there three great Bags of Pieces of Eight,
which held about eleven hundred Pieces in all; and in
one of them, wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of
Gold, and fonte fiuall Bars or Wedges of Gold; I fuppofe they might all weigh near a Pound.
The other Chefl I found had fome Cloaths in it, but
of little Value; but by the Circumtfances it muff have
belong'd to the Gunner's Mate, tho' there was ro Powder in it, but about two Pounds offine glaz'd Powder,
in the three finall Flasks, kept, I. fuppofe, for charge
ing their Fowling-pieces on occafion: Upon thewhole,
I got very little by this Voyage, that was of any ufl
to nme; for as to the Money, I had no manner of occalion for it; 'twas to me as the Dirt under my Feet; and
I would have given it all for three or four Pair of
EngliJb Shoes and Stockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had on my Feet now tor many
Years: I had, indeed, gotten two Pair of Shoes now,
which I took off of the Feet of the two drown'd Men,
who I faw in the Wreck; and I found two Pair more
in one of the Chefis, which were very welcome to me;
but they were not like our Englijh Shoes, either for
Eafe or Service, being rather what we call Pumps than
Shoes: I found in this Seaman's Cheff about fifty
Pieces of Eight in Royals, but no Gold; I fuppofe this
belong'd to a poorer Man than the other, which feem'dl
to belong to fome Officer.
Well, however, I lugged this Money home to my
Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which
1 brought from our own Ship; lnt it i was great Pity,
** ~~ '




(   86)
4 I faid, that thb other Part of this Ship had not come
to my Share, for I am fatisfied I might have loaded my
Camoe feveral times over with Money, which, if I had
ever efcap'd to England, would have lain here fafe
enough till I might have come again and fetch'd it.
Having now brought all my Things on Shore, and
fecur'dthem, I went back to my Boat, and row'd or
paddled her along the Shore to her old Harbour, where
I laid her up, and made the beft of my Way to my
old Habitation, where I found every Thing fare and
quiet; fo I began to repofe myfelf, live after my old
}afilion, and take care of my Family Affairs; and for
a while I lived eafy enough; only that I -was more vigilant than I us'd to be, look'd out oftner, and did not
go abroad fo much; and if at any time I did flir with
any Freedom, it was always to the Eaft Part of the
lfland, where I w:as pretty well Iatisfy'd the Savages
never came, and where I could go without fo many
Precautions, and fuch a Load of Arms and Ammunition,
as I always carry'd with me, if I went the other Way.
I liv'd in this Condition near two Years more; but
my unlucky Head, that was always.to let me know it
W as born to make my Body miferale, was all thofe two
Years fill'd with Projeas, and Defigns how, if it were
| poffible, i might get away from this Ifland'; forf iome
times I was for making another Voyage to the Wreck,
tho' my Reafon told me that there was nothing left there
worth the Hazard of- my Voyage: Sometimes for a
Ramble one way, fometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had the Boat that I went from Salee iw:
I fliould have ventur'd to Sea, bound any where, I
knew not whether.
I have been, in all my Circumftanees, a- Memento
to thofe who are totch'd with that general Plague of
Mankind, whence, for ought I know, one halfof their
Miferies flow; i mean, that of not being fatisfy'd with
the Station wherein God and Nature hath plac'd them;
for not to look back. upon my primitive Condition, and
the excellent Advice of my Father, the Oppofition to
which was, as I may call it, my Original Sin, my lubfequent Mifakes of the fame kind had been the means of
mny coininito this niiferable Condition  for had that
*,'Pro,




( 187 )
Providence, which ib happily had feated me at the Brafits, as a Planter, blefs'd me with confin'd Defires, and I
could have been contented to have gone on gradually,
I might have been by this Time, 1 meanin the Time
of sy being in tLis JIland, one of the moil confiderable
Planters in the Brafls; nay, I am  perfuaded, that by
the Improvements I had made in that little time I liv'd
there, and the Encreafe I fhould probably have made,
if I had ftay'd, I might have been worth an hundred
tboufand loydores; and what Bufinefs had I to leave
a fettled Fortune, a well-flock'd Plantation, improving and increafing, to turn Supra Cargo to Guinea, to
fetch Negroes, when Patience and Time would have
fo encreas'd our Stock at Home, that we could have
bought them at our own Door, from thofe whofe Buinels it was to fetch them? And though it had coil us
fonething more, yet the Diference of that Price was
by no Meanls worth faving at fo great a Hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the Fate of young Heads,
fo Refleaion upon the Folly of it, is as ordinarily the
Exercife of more Years, or of the dear-bcught Experience of Time; and fo it was with me now; and yet
fo deep had the Mitfake taken Root in my Temper,
that I could not fatisfy my felf in my Station, but was
continually poring upon the Means and Poflibility of
my Efcape from this Place; and that I may with the
greater Pleafire to the Reader bring on the remaining
Part of my Story, it may not be improper to give fome
Account of my firft Conceptions on the Subjet of this
foolilh Scheme for my Efcape and how, and upon what
Foundation I aCted.
I am now to be fuppos'd retir'd into my Caftle,
after my late Voyage to the Wreck, my Frigate laid
up, and fecur'd under Water as ufual, and ny Condition reflor'd to what it was before: I had more Wealth,
indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer,
for I had no more Ufe for it, than the Indians of Peru
had beforethe Spaniards came there.
It was- olle of the Nights, in the rainy Seafon in
March, the four and twentieth Year of my firft fetting
Foot in this Ifland of Solitarinefs, I was lyingin my
Bed, or Hammock, awake, very well in Health, ha&
no




( i88 )
no Pain, no Diftemper, no Uneafiefs ofBody, no, nor anyUneafinefs of Mind,more than ordinary; but could by
no means clofe my Eyes; that is, fo as to fleep; no,
not a Wink all Night long, otherwife than as follows':
It is as impoffible as needlefs, to fet down the innumerable Crowvd of Thoughts that whirl'd through that
great Thorowfair of the Brain, the Memory, in this
Night's Time:    run over the whole Hiftory oi my
Lite in Miniature, or by Abridgment, as I may call it,
to my coming to this Iland; and allb of that Part of
my Life fince I came to this IWland; in ny Refleftions
upon the State of my Cafe, fince I came on Shore on
this Ifland, I was comparing the happy Pofture of my
Afzairs, in the firft Years of my Habitation here, compar'd to the Life of Anxiety, Fear, and Care, which I
had liv'd in ever fince I had feen the Print of a Foot
in the Sand; not that I did not believe the Savages
bad frequented the Ifland even all the while, and might
have been feveral Hundreds of them at Times on Shore
there; but as I had never known it, and was incapable
of any A pprehenfions about it; my Satisfa&ion was perfe&, tho' my Danger was the fame; and I was as happy
in not knowing my Danger, as if I had never really been
expos'd to it; this furnifh'd my Thoughts with many
very profitable Refle6tions, and particularly this one,
how infinitely good that Providence is, which has provided in its Government of Mankind fuch narrow
Bounds to his Sight and Knowledge of Things; and tho'
he walks in the midft of fo many thoufand Dangers,
the Sight of which, if difcover'd to him, would diftraa his Mind, and fink his Spirits, he is kept ferene
and calm, by having the Events of Things hid from
his Eyes, and knowing nothing of the Dangers, which
furround him,
After there Thoughts had for fome Time entertained
me, I came to refle&t erioufly upon the real Danger I
had been in for fo many Years in this very Ifland; and
how I had walk'd about in the greateft Security, and
with all poflible Tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but a Brow of a Hill, a great Tree, or the cafual
Approach of Night, had been between me and the worft
kind of Detrution, viy. That of falling into the Hands
ot




( I89 )
of Canibals and Savages, who would have feiz'd on mi
with the fame View, as I did of a Goat or a Turtle,
and have thought it no more a Crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a Pidgeoni or a Curlieu; I
fhould unjuilly flader my felt, if I flould fay I was
not fincerely thankful to my great Preferver, to whofe
fingular Prote&ion I acknowledged, with great Humi.
lity, that all thefe unknown Deliverances were due;
and without which I ihould inevitably have fallen into
their mercilefs Hands.
When thefe hlloughts were over, my Head was for
fonle time taken up in confidering the Nature ofthefe
wretched Creatures, I mean, the Savages; and how it
came to pafs in the World, that the wife Governour of
all Things fhould give up any of his Creatures to fuch
Inhumanity; nay, to iomething fo much below even
Brutality it felf, as to devour its own Kind: But as
this ended in fome (at that Time fruitlets) Specula.
tions, it occur'd to me to enquire, what Part of the
World thefe Wretches liv'd in; how far off the Coaft
was from whence they came; what they ventur'd over
fo far from Home for; what kind of'Boats they had;
and why I might not order my fel, and my Bufinefs
lo, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they
were to come to me.
I never fo much as troubled my felf to confider what
I fhould do with my felt when I came thither; what
Ihould become of me, if I fell into the Hauds of the
Savages; or how I fliould efcape froln them, if they
attempted me; no, nor fo much as how it was poflible for me to reach the Coaft, and not be attempted by
fome or other of them, without any Poffibility of
delivering nly felf; and if I fhould not fall into their
Hands, what I fhould do for Provifion, or whither
I fhould bend my Courfe; none of' there Thoughts,
I fay,'to much as came in my Way; but my Mind
was wholly bent upon the Notion of my pafling
over in my Boat to the main Land: I look'd back
upon my prefent Condition, as the moft miferable that
could pofibly be; that I was not able to throw myfelf
into any thing but Death that could be call'd worfe;
that




that if'I reach'd the Shore of the Main, I might;
perhaps, meet with Relief, or I might coaff along, as
I did on the Shore of Arick, 'till I came to fonie inhabited Country, and where I might find.ome Relief;
and after all, perhaps I might iall in with fome ChriIlian Ship that might take me in; and if the worit
came to the worif, I could but die, which would put
an End to all thtfe Miferiesat once: Pray Note, All
this wasthe Fruit of a difturb'd Mind, an impatient
Temper, made as it were defperate by the long Continuance of my Troubles, and the Difappointments I had
met in the Wreck I had been on board of, and where
I had been fo near the obtaining what I fo earneflly
long'd for, viO. fome Body to fpeak to, and to learn
fome Knowledg from, of the Place where I was, and
of the probable Means of my Deliverance; I fay, I
was agitated wholly by thefe Thoughts: All my Calm
of Mind in my Refignation to Providence, and waiting the Iffue of the Difpofitions of Heaven, feem'd to
be fufpended, and I had, as it were, no Power to
turn my Thoughts to any Thing, but the Proje& of a
Voyage to the Main, which came upon me with fuch
Force, and fuch an Impetuofity of Defire, that it was
not to be refifted.
When this had agitated my Thoughts for two Hours,
or more, with fach Violence, that it fet my very Blood
into a Ferment, and my Pulfe beat as.high as if I had
been in a Fever, merely with the extraordinary Fervour of my Mind about it Nature, as if I had been
fatigu'd and exhaulted with the very Thought of it,
threw me into a found Sleep: One would have thought
I lhould have dreamt of it; but I did not, nor of any
thing relating to it; but I dreamt, that as I was going
out in the Morning, as ufual, from  my Caftle, I faw
upon the Shore two Canoes, and eleven Savages coming
to Land, and that they brought with them another Savage, who -they were going to kill, in order to eat him;
whten, on a fudden, the Savage, that they were going
to kill, jump'd away, and ran for his Life; then I
thought in my Sleep, that he came running into my
-little thick Grove, betfre my Fortification, to hide
hiimtelf and -thatl feeing him alone, and not perceivazz




( '9'.nfg that the other fought him that way, flietwd my e
to him, and fmiling upon him, encourag'd him: That
he kneel'd down to me, teeming to pray me to affift
him; upon which I fhew'd my Ladder, made him go
up, and carried him into my Cave, and he became
my Servant; and that as foon as I had gotten this Man,
I laid to my felf, Now I may certainly venture to the
Main Land; for this Fellow will ferve me as a Pilot,
and will tell me what to do, and whither to go fbr
Provifions; and whether not to go for fear of being
devoured, what Places to venture into, and what to
efcape. I wak'd with this Thought, and was under
fuch inexpreffible Imprefiions of Joy at the Proflpe& of
my Efcape in my Dream, that the Difappointments
which I felt upon coming to my fel; and finding it
was no more than a Dream, were equally extravagant
the other way, and threw me into a very great Dcjection of Spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this Conclufion, That
my only way to go about an Attempt for an Efcape,
was, if poffible, to get a Savage into my Poffeilion;
and, if poffible, it ihould be one of their Prifoners,
whom they had condemn'd to be eaten, and ihould
bring thither to kill; but thefe Thoughts frill were
'attended with this Difficulty, that it was iinpoffible
to effe& this without attacking a whole Caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only a
very defperate Attempt, and might mifcarry; but, on
the other hand, I had 'greatly fcrupl'd the Lawtulnefs of
it to me, and my Heart trembled at the Thoughts of
fhedding fo much Blood, tho' it was for my Deliverance. - mneed not repeat the Arguments which occur'd
-to me againil this, they being the iame mention'd before: But tho' I had other Reafons to offer 'now, vit.
That thofe Men were Enemies to my Life, and would
devour me, if' they could, that it was Self-prefervation in the highelt Degree, to deliver my felf from this
Death of a Life, and was a5ting in my own Defence, as
much as if they were a&ually affaulting me, and the
like: I fay, tho' there things argued for it, yet the
Thoughts of' fhedding human Blood for my Deliverance, were very terrible to me, and fuch as could by
no Mleans reconcile my felf to a great while.  How



R' owever, at lafd, after many fecret'Difputes witl
myfelf, and after great Perplexities about it, (for all
thefe Arguments, one way and another, ftruggled in
my Head a long time) the eager prevailing Delire
of Deliverance at length mafter'd all the reft, and I refolv'd, if potfible, to get one of thefe Savages into my
Hands, coft what it would: My next thing then was
to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to refblve on; But as I could pitch upon lo
probable Means for it, fo I refolv'd to put myfelf upon
the Watch, to fee them when they came on Shore, and
leave the reft to the Event, taking fuch Meafures as the
Opportunity fliould prefent, let be what would be.
With theie Refolutions in my Thoughts, I fet myfelf
upon the Scout, as often as poffible, and indeed to often
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a Year
and a half that I waited, and for great Part of that Time
'went out to the Weft-End, and to the South-Weft Corner of the Ifland almoft every Day, to fee for Canoes,
but none appear'd: This was very difcouraging, and
began to trouble me much; tho' I can't fay that it did
in this Cafe as it had done Come time before that, vit.
wear off the Edge of my Defire to the thing,.but the
longer it feem'd to be delay 'd, the more eager I was for
it: In a Word, I was not at firft more careful to fhun the
Sight of thefe Savages, and avoid being feen by them,
than I was now eager to be upon them.
Betides, I fancied myfelf able to manage one, nay,
two or three Savages, if I had them, fo as to make them: entirely Slaves to me, to do whatever I fhould dire&
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do
me any Hurt: It was a great while that I pleas'dmyfelf with this Affair; but nothing ftill prefented; all
my Fancies and Schemes came to nothing, for no Savages came near me for a great while.
About a Year and half after I had entertain'd thefe
Notions, and, by long muting, had as it were refolv'd
them all into nothing, for want of an Occafion to put
them in Execution, 1 was furpriz'd one Morning early,
with feeing no lefs than five Canoes all on Shore together on my Side the Ifland, and the People who belong'd to them all landed, ard out of my Sight: The
Num



(   93   )
Number of them broke all my Meafures  F for feeing fo
many, and knowing that they always came four, or lix,
or rometimes more, in a Bqft, I could not tell what to
think of it, or.how to take my Meafures, to attack
twenty or thirty Men fingle-handed; lo I lay ftill in
my Cafile, perplex'd and aifcomforted; however I put
my felfinto all the fame Poffures for an Attack, that
I had formerly provided, and was juft ready for Adion,
if any thing had prefented: Having waited a g5od
while, liftening to hear if they made any Noile, at length
being very impatient, I let my Guns at the Foot of my
Ladder, and clamber'd up to the Top of' the Hill by
my two Stages, as ufual; franding Xo however, that
my Head did not appear above the Hill; fo that they
could not perceive me by any Means: Here I obferv'd,
by the help of' my Perfpe&ive-Glafs, that they were
no lets than thirty in Number, that they had a Fire had
kindled, and that they had had Meat dreis'd; how they
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was, hut they
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
Geflures and Figures, their own Way, round the Fire.
While I was thuslooking on them, I perceiv'd by my
Perfpe&ive two miferable Wretches drag'd fiom the
Boats, where, it feems, they were laid by,:and were
now brought out for the Slaughter  I perceived one of
them immediately fell, being.knock'd down, I fuppofe
with a Club or wooden Sword, for that was their Way,
and two or three others were at work irmmediately, cutting him  open for their Cookery, while the other Vidim was lett ftanding by himfelt; till they thould be
ready for him: In that veryMoment this poor Wretch feeing himfelf a little at Liberty, Nature infpir'd him with
Hopes of Life, and he flarted away from them, and
ran with -incredible Swiftnefs along the Sands dire&ly
towards me, I mean, towards that Part of the Coafl
where my Habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I muff acknowledge)
when I perceiv'd him to run my Way; and efpecially$
when, as If thought, I tawt him purfued by the whole
Body; and now I expe&ed that Part of my Dream was
coming to pars, and that he would certainly take ihelter
in my Grove but I could not depend by any means
K.   upon




(   94)
upon my Dream for the reft of it, vit. that the other
Savages would not purfie him thither, and find him
there: However, I kept my Station, and my Spirits began to recover, when 1 found tthat there was not above
tlhree,en that follow'd him; and ifll more was I encouraged, when I found that he outflript them exceedingly in running, and gain'd Ground of them, fo that if
he could but hold it for halt an Hour, I faw eafily he
would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my Caftle the Creek
wtich I mention'd often at the firft Part of my Story,
when I landed my Cargoes out of the Ship; and this I
knew, he nuftl neceflarily fwim iover, or the poor
Wretch would be taken there; But when the Savage efl
caping came thither, he made nothing of it, tho' the
Tide was then up  but plunging in, iwvam thro' in about thirty Strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on
with exceeding Strength and Swiftnefs; when the three
Purfuers came to the Creek, I found that two of' them
could fwim, but the third could not, and that he tlanding
on the other Side, look'd at the other, but went no
further; and fbon after went foftly back again, which,
as it happen'd, was very well for him in the Main.
I obferv'd, that the two who vfam, were yet more
than twice as long fwimming over the Creek, than the
PXellow Was that fled from them: It came nov very
warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed irrefiflibly,
that now was my Time to get me a Servant, and perhaps a Companion, or Affifant, and that I was call'd
plaiidly by Providence to fave this poor Creature's
Life;  I immediately gat down the Ladders with all poffible Expedition, fetch'd my two Guns, for they were
both at the Foot of the Ladders, as I obferv'd above;
and getting up again with the fame hafte, to the Top
of the Hill, I crois'd toward the Sea; and having a very fhort cut, and all down Hill, clap'd my felf in the
Way between the Purfuers and the purfued, hallowing
aloud to him that fled, who looking back, was at firit
rh-ps as nmch frighted at me, as at them; but I bee.
non'd with my Hfand cot him to come back, and in the
ean time, i flowly advanced towads the two that fol-:1owd; i ten rufling at once upon the foremoftl I knock'd
e               him




-I -. r"
1  iI




F         -    -




..I.4 -  Wn: with tie.StQck-of ny Pi-e; I' was I.6th ti:ir, be ufef 1 woulld not havetht reft hear; tbo' at that
Dftance it wquld not:havc been eafily heard  and be,
'ing out ofbight: o the'Smoak tooy   otey  uld not have
ealily knQwn:w.hat, to. make of it:. Having knock'd this
Fellow down, the otther who purfu'd him ilopt, as if he
had been frighted, aand I.dvanced a- pace towards im;
Ibut as i caime nearer,,I perceiv'd preimntly, he.had a Bow
and Arrow, and was fitting it to fhoot at me; fo I was
then 'neceflat ted to, oot at him firfi; which I did, and
kill'd him at the firft Shot: I he poor Savage who ledj
but had ftop'd, tho' he ftw both his. Enemies, fillen,
and kill'd, (as lie thought,) yet was fo frighted with thb
]Fire, and Noife of my Piece, that he ftood ftock fill,
and- neither came forward or went backward, tho' he
eein'd rather inclin'd to fly ftill, than to come on; I
holl1Q'd again to him, an.made Signs. toLcome fbrward,- Which he eafily turderftood, and came a littl wayi
thenftop'd&again, and thenia little farther,- andiop'd av
gai i and I could then perceive that be ftoo trembliog
as ifhe had.been taken Prifoner, anl hhad jufllbeen to be
killd,.as his two Enemies were; I beckon'd him again
to come to me, and gave him all the Signs of Encouragemnent that I could thinkof; and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve Stepsj, in to_
n.of oA ckno wledgment for faying  is.Life i: il'cd
at him, anid Iook'd pleafanly, aMd bckon'd to hm to
come fill nearer; iat length he came ctofe to me, and;hen he kneel'd down again, kifs'd theGQround, a,;n4 lai
hisHead.upon the Ground, and taking me by tdieFoot,
fet my Foot upon -his Head; This, it leems, was in to,
klen of fwearing to be my Slave for ever: i took him
up, and. made much of him, and encouraged him all I
e4uld4i:But cthre wasimore WOk.to do yet, for I pert
eet'v'd thle Savage whom I knock'd down, was not killdo
1t iun'd with the Blow, anabegan t comento bimfelf;,O It pointed to him, and fbowing him:the Savage, that
be was not dead  ton this hie    fpoke t (o, Words t
me, and.tho'l could aot undeiftlan theme yet I thought
they wre pleafan to bear, 'for-hey were the firfl Souna
d.a'Man's Voice tliat l1baa:heard,, cim-exepted fot
bcvevfiwaan&t yety:ears.I3B't therew4an tulele
L:.]     '             K 2                fuch




( 196 )
faoh Refleaions ow; the Savage, wvho was knock'd
down, reover'd himiellf fo far, as to fit up upon the
Ground, andI perceiv'd that my Savage began to be
afraid; but when I faw that, Iprefented my other Piece
at the Man, as if I would Ihoot him; upon this my Savage, f r fo I call him ncv>, made a Motion to me to
lend him my Sword, which hung naked in aBelt by
my Side; fo I did: He no fooner had it, but he runs to
his Enemy, and at one Blow cut off his Head as cleverly,
no Executioner in Germany could have done it fooner
or better; which I thought very ftrange, for one, who
I had reafon to believe, never faw a Sword in his Life
before, except their own wooden Swords; however, it
feems, as I learn'd afterwards, they make their wooden
Swords fo fharp, fo heavy, and the Wood is fl hard,
that they will cutoff Heads even with them, ay and
Arms, and that at one Blow too: W' hen he had done
this, hef'6omes laughing to me in Sign of Triumph, and
brought me the Sword again, and with abundance of
G3eftures, which I did not underfiand, laid it down
with the Head of the Savage that he had kill'd, juft be.
fore me.
But that which afloniih'd him moft was, to know how
I had kill'd the other Indian fo far off; fo, pointing to
him, he made Signs to me to let him go to him ~   So I
bad him go, as well as I could; when he came to him,
he flood like one amaz'd, looking at him, turn'd him firft
on one fide; then on t'other, look'd at the Wound the
Bullet had made, which it ieems was juft in his Breaft,
where it had made a Hole, and no great Quantity of
Blood had follow'd,.but he had bled inwardly, for he was
quite dead: Then-he took up his Bow and Arrows, and
cameback; fo I turn'd to go away, and beckon'd to
him to follow me, making Signs to him that more might
come after them.
Upon this he fign'd to me, that he fhould bury them
with Sand, that they might not be feen by the refl if
they follow'd; and ft I made Signs again to him to do,fo; he fell to work, and in an Inftant he had fcrap'd a
Hole in the Sand with hlis Hands, big enough to bury
the firft in, and then drag'd him into it, and cover'd
bim, and did fo allo by the other; I believe he had,               bury'd




(  t97   )   "
bury'd them both in a Quarter of an Hour; then eai
ling him  away, I carry'd him  not to my Caftle, Lut
quite away to lmy Cave, on the further Part of the Iiland; fo I did not let my Dream come to pals in thkit
Part, vie. That he came into my Grove Jor Shelter.
Here I gave hin Bread, and a Bunch of Raifins to
eat, and a Draught of Water, which I found he was in.
deed in great Dittrefs tor, by his running; and laving
recrefi'd him, I made Signs tor him to go lie down and
eep, pointing to a Place where I had laid a great Parcel of'Rice Straw, and a Blanket upon it, which I ufed
to lleep upon my elf fometimes; ib the poor Creatulre
laid down and went to fleep.
He was a comely handlome Fellow, perfeEly well
made, with ftrait long Limbs, not too large, tall, ande
well ihap'd; and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix Years
of Age. He had a very good Countenance, not a fierce
and lurly Al'pc&, but ieem'd to have fomething very
manly in his Face, and yet he had all the Sweetnefsand
Softnels of an Eurcpean in his Countenance too, efpe.
cially when he finii'd: Tis Hair was long and black,
not curi'd like Wool; his Forehead very high, and large,
and a great Vivacity and fparkling Sharpnels in his Eycs.
The Colour of his Skin was not quite black, but very
tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellow naufeous Tawny,
as the Brafilians, and Virginians, and other Natives otf
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun Olive Co.
lour, that had in it fomething very agreeable, tho' not
very eafy to defcribe. His Face was round and plumpi
his Nole fmall, not flat like the Negroes, a. vry good
Mouth, thin Lips, and his Teeth fine  well fet, and
white as Ivory: After he- had flurbec'd, rather than
flept, about half an Hour, he wak'd again, and comes
out of the Cave to me, for I had been milking my Goats,
which I had in the Enclofure ju l by. When he efpy'd
me, he came running to me, laying himfelf down again
uporn the Ground, with all the poflible Signs of an humble thankful Difpofition, making a many antick Gelures.
to lhow it: At laft helays his.Head flat upon thGround,
cloe to my Foot, and fetsmy other Foot upon his Head4
as he had done before;,nd after this, made all th.
-;:...    K3 3: -:.g.; ba



Signs to. me bf _~ubjeclion, Servitude, and.Submi~nifii
imaginable, to let me know' how he would ferve me as
long -as he- Jiv'd: I tanderttood, hir nin, many things, 'and
let iiim ~knowv I was very well pleat'd with him; ina
little time-4 began to iteak -to hiim, and teach 'himu to
ljeak to  e    n  ii, Ie made' himi know his, Nam-re
thould, LVE Fidayi h twa    h    a   fav'dhis Life;.and. I call'd him- i'o foir the Memiory of the time;i I like.*
wi1e t~aU~ght]him, to~ fiy. Mafter, and then lot him ~know
that was to be- mny Namle;1 I likewife taughit him to fay
Te~s aind ~No, and to know the Meaning of them; I 1 gave
himi ibme Mil1k in an e~arthenJ Pot, anca let him fee me
dr-ink i t befere hin, and f op my Bread in, it;  and, -
gav   hima a Cake ofi' Bread to do, the like, which hie.
quickly cbniply'd~withj and made Signs -that it wa~s ye.
Ty good fur him.
I kept thbeire with himi all that Night, bat as fiooh as
it was Days I beckon'd to -hiifl to comre with m~e, anid
let hlin know I would give him fome Cloaths, at which
hbe f~eei'd very glad, for he was flark-naked:  As we
went by the~ Place where he had, bury'd the two Me;
he poinlted; ekatatly to the Spio:, ~and ihew'd we the
Markis that"1 he* had moAde to 'find theni agaiti making
sIgS t~l met~     fIo'd digt them up agailn, and a
them,; at 'thi# I a peear~diery atrty, e.9ptelid my AbI
horrenrce of 'it, mhade as if I Wo~uld vomiit At the Thoughti
vf' it,~ and beckon'dwith. myHa'nd to 'him to come a,.
waVJyl1 which he did inlrniediately with great Si~ihmiffion:
Ithen led him uip to- the   fthe Hill, to- fee-if hit
En,4Mjae were gone    and' pling ou   my Glas4- I

btitno Apear~ne oif iern, or~ of th r Uanoes"; fo that jt
was "plainh thAt they Wr goe,. antd, had Ilet- thdir'twd
~~Corade behnd ttrwithdut any Sl-arch after- theib.
Bdt I was not con~tent with this. Di-fcovery, hut- having now mhore Courage, and confiequently more Curio*
fity, I todk my Man Friday with Me,~ giving him 'thd
Sword 'in hiijHsaidk` With, thd Bowt; and Arruit   i
whc~I okdhe, cbuId If   vr     xoUfly~
naoki, g  bthtinv fr ind G Ounfl, an&c  A tefd* ii-,
~1c`A'tu4`res had been; fo 1 it had a' mind now to get fomle
fu~ller,




(  199 )
fuller Intelligence of them: When I came to the Place,
my very Blood ran chill in my Veins, and my Heart
funk within me at the Horror of the Spe&acle: Indeed
it was a dreadful Sight, at lealt it was to to me, tho'
Friday made nothing ot it: The Place was cover'd with
human Bones, the Ground dy'd with their Blood,
great Pieces of Fleth left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and fcorch'd; and, in fhort, all the Tokens of
the triumphant Feaft they had been making there, after a Vitory over their Enemies: I faw three Skulls,
five Hands, and the Bones of three or four Legs and
Feet, and abundance of other Parts of the Bodies; and
Friday, by his Signs, made me underfiand, that they
brought over four Prifoners to feaft upon; that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himfielt
was the fourth: That there had been a great Battel between them and their next King, whofb Subje6& it
teems he had been one of; and that they kad taken a
great Number of Prifoners, all which were carried to
feveral Places by thofe that had taken them in the
Fight, ill order to feaft upon them, as was done here by
thefe Wretches upon thofe they brought hither.
I caus'd Friday to gather all the Skulls, Bones, Flefl,
and whatever remain'd, and: lay them together on a
Heap, and make a great Fire upon it, and burn them
all to Alfes: I found Friday had frill a hankering Stomach after fome of the Flefh, and was till a Cannibal in
his Nature, but I difcover'd fo much Abhorrence at
the very Thoughts of it, and at the leaft Appearance cf
it, that he durfi not difcover it; for I had, by fone
means, let him know that I would kill him if he offer'd it.
When we had done this, we came back to our Caflel
and there I fell to work for my Man Friday; and firft
bf all I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers, which I hc.d
out of the poor Gunner's Cheft I mention'd, and which
I found in the Wreck; and which, with- a little Altiatin, fitted him very well; then I made him a* Jer;
kin of Goat's-Skin, as well as my Skill would allow
anl I was now grown a     tolerable good Taylor; and I
gave li m a Cap, which I had made of a Hare-Skif,
very convenient and falhionable enough; and thus he
K 4                  was




( 200    )
was drefs'd, for the prefent, tolerably well, and nighty
well was he plcas'd to fee himlflfalmofi as well cloath'd
as his Mafler: It's true, he went aukwardly in thefe
things at firit; wearing the Drawers was very aukward
to him, and the Sleeves of the Waiftcoat gall'd his
Shculders, and the Infide of his Arms; but a little
iafing them, where he collplain'd they hurt him, and
ufing hinlelfto them, at length he took to them very
well.
The next Day after I came Home to my Hutch with
him, I began to confider where I fhould lodge him; and
that I might do well for him, and yet be perfetly eafy
my felt: I made a little Tent for him in the vacant
Place between my two Fortifications, in the Infide of
the laff, and in the Outfide of the firfl: And as there
was a Door or Entrance there into my Cave, I made
a formal fram'd Door.Cafe, and a Door to it of Boards,
and fet it up in the PafIage, a little within the Entrance;
and caufing the Door to open on the Infide,  barr'd it
up in the Night, taking in my Ladders too; fo that
Friday could no way come at me in the Infide of my
innermoll Wall, without making fo much Noife in getting over, that it muft needs awaken me; for my firft
Wall had now a compleat Roof over it of long Poles,
covering all my Tent, and leaning up to the Side of
the Hill, which was again laid crols with fmall Sticks
inftead of Laths, and then thatch'd over a great Thicknets with the Rce-Straw, which was frong like Reeds;
and at the Hole or Place which was left to go in or out
by the Ladder, I had plac'd a kind of Trap-Door, which
if it had been attempted on the Out. fide, would not
have open'd at all, but would have fallen down, and
made a great Noife; and as to Weapons, I took them
all into my Side every Night.
But I needed none of all this Precaution; for never?Man had a more faithful, loving, fincere Servant than
Friday was to me; without Pafions, Sullenefs, or Defigns perfeAly oblig'd and engag'd; his very Affteiions
were ty'd to me, like thofe of a Child to a Father; and
i dare aIy, he would have facrific'd his Life for the faving mine, upon any Occafion whatfoever: The nany
'eftimonies be gave me of this, put it out ofdoubt
and




(201
and fuon convilncd me., that I needed to ufe no "Precaw'l
tions as to my Safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occafion to orbferve, and that'
with, wonder, that however it had pleas'd God 'in hfis
Providence, and in the Government~ of the Works' of
his Hands, to take from fo great a Part of the World of
bis Creatures, the befl U fes' to which -their Faculties,
and the Powers of their Souls are adapted; yet that he
has heftow'd upon them   the famle Powe.rs, the fame
Reafon, the fame Affiefions, thc fanhe Sentiments ~of
Kindnefs and "Obligation, -the fa~me Pailion's and Refentimnents of Wrongs, the fame Sene 6f Gratitude, Sineccirity., Fidelity,~ and 'all, the' Capacities of doing' Gford)
and receiving Good, that he has' given to us; an  hat,
when he pleafes to offier them: Occlifins of exertirng
thefe, they are as ready, nay, more ready to apply them.
to ~the right U i'es for which the&y wvere hetlow'd; than
-we are; And, this( mAd& ~me very' meanchol Y berpiye%,
in rell&Aing,, as th'e feveral Occafions pr~ehete'd, how-.
nan a Ufe we mnakeAof ll thefe, ~even fhthouh w-elhave"
thef4~, Powers e-nlighl~ten~d bry the g~rcait Cainp'6 ti
tion, the Spirit oP God, Vand by the- KroW-ledge'~ ~f hUS
Word, added to our UnderI~anding:; -ind' wh'y 'it' ha's
pleafed God" to hide the like fiaving Kno~wledge' fr~om.
niany Millions of. Souls, who (if, I might jtdge by this,
rodr Svav -') would make a~ nltch betrUe  of t ~tha~~
ve did.
From 'hei~ce r foiietinies was led`to -far to ~ii~vade~
th~e Sovreig~ty of Pr~ovidenice-, fid~aitwteati
the! JWIWlice 9f arbitrary a&Difjiof1~1~nb!f Things thAi
batild h ide, that Light from  forne; and 'reveal it to
others, aned yet e pe&f a* like Dut'y, firom -both:- But f
1hut it upand 6heck~d my 'fhou'gh%  wth this Conch-ulion~, 'Firfi, That wifdidiwlt. kno  -bywat igh and
'Law tthef'e fihould beo ondeindI btitta, s*o   vs
beceffartily, " tnd4 by,~ the NA~tltrb o{ hii-Beng, i 1ntl
I~o1y ~adjuf  fo t cold-hot, bell lntt hii~if thi~efCr
~tdre9 N~eiealfe4I oe.An~l'd~tatbfe  4'r~dm hnimfelf ite ~was;i.hlactoUait of liotothg~ ~ghpmfl htt~wLlght~ hiycb'~ ai thd
Scripture fays, was- a Law to themfelves, n  yf
Rulis asthcirc Cofaete    oudakold         e to,
&i6b-TaEundatio4flA vq  n& fcV~rkl to uS. -And




comiyi  ii~as   202);That f11awe are all th~e ClayiJn, the Jand of
ePotter, no Veffel, could 4y to him, Wbye haft theti.'rmi'd mie -'thus(?
But to rtaurn ~q my ~newco C mpion: I was, greattly
clelightae with him,11 and made it m iy Bufinefi to teac h
him evrery thing that was proper to make him ufettil,
bandy and heiptul; - bat ef'pecially, to mnake hint fpeakj
and iindelrftand me when I f'pake; and he was the apteft
SCholar that ever was, and particularly was fo mver~ry,
fo conflantlyediliigent, and fo-plea~d whent, bPcuuI4, btt*
unlderifan4 mle~,or~ make mie,,gnderfland,,i him thlmt,
wvas very pleafant,  to  alk to   him; and now my
Life bea   ob, 9eftatkbgnt fay t~o y feJ
that co Wdl I but4 havye, been fak from ixor'e Savagle,
cared not if I was nev er to remove from theC Place while
Afterl had been twIo or thire, D,,ys return'd t-omy
afeItogtba,Jtay,iorder to lrgFidyof fromn
1ishrrid way _o feedingj 4, nd ifroth thte Rej& 'if
Cannikal's Stomnach I c1t&tt Iet1~im tafleter Eeh
li, I took him q  with me on    RvIM, to ~eW~s
[ ivent indked,qeneiding to.kiII aKid- out- of My Owl!
IFlock Anid bring it honne and -drieefs i t: X3it, as I war.o9g-Ii~w    lGqAt, ly ir~gido   in the Shade, and
two youg Kids fiating by ~her: 4, catch'~d hcod oFr
dhold I                               %~~I~~1~~!  r  'ksgst
ot to Iir; Immediatel     prefented n4 'Pieco,' fOt
anQ1114     I~ 9ftq,1e,  IJ 1 P pp   treWho
hadat  )~aCs*        *n~4d  f -ti mekilj th$avgIi
wai oe was fenfhWy Ii~rptii?4~.tremWvd *lid loW
and look'd fo 'ani~zd that I tho   j-hq would havoe
funk dow n   HI 4Qd pot fee. the,1i I hali POot at, or
pecieI had tkiWd -a u rpd~~   his Waifkoat, w
feifhe was not wouwis4e4;nd*    f44,dp~et
thought I        i eov'd tOkill bimtu  f br ht -,ditnt Hand
kneel' mo~t     ua4e~te~,sy Kneea, aida
great nttapyy  hn     dn        4nLn       could
)uIx i z arai), and.aWkhshiLmiUphby the Hod0,lavbh'd




(203)
atbhin, -and pointing to, the Kid which I h ad kIll'4
beckon'd to him, to run and fetch it, which he did;
and while he was wondering and looking, to fee how
the Creature was kili'd, I loaded. my Gun again, and
by-and-by I Law a great Fowl, like a Hawk, fit upon,
-a Tree within ihot; fo, to let Friday ixnderaland a little
what I would do, I cali'd him to- me again, pointing at
the Fowl, which was indeed a Par rot, tho' I though t i t
had bleen a Hawk;i I Lay, pointing toithe Parrot, andt
to my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, to let.
him Lee I would make it fall1, I made himi underfland,
that I would fhoot and kill that' Bird; accordingly I
fir'd, -and had him look, and immediately he Law, thea.Parrot fall: He flood like oie frighited again,, notwith-~
-flandting all I had Laid to him; and, I fowini he wa-s the
more aniaz'd, becauiP he did not Lfee me put any thing
into the Gun;- hut thought tha thre muln    efon
wonderful Fund  of Death' an)d Defhita~on, in that
Thing able to kill Man, Beall, Bird, or any thing nearor fax of; for the Afltonifliment this 0~-eated ifl himi,
wsueas~couldl not wear off' for a long time'; and II
believe, if' I would. have let ~him, he wculd have worthip'd me -and my Gun: As fir the Gun it- feW,'~ h*,Would not fo much as touch it for LeverA-l Days aifier;
but would fpaak, to it., and talk,to its if _it ha4d an~fwer'd him, when he was~ by, himfelf,; vhi~,h as I
terwr l'VVdofbmws to defire it not to kill lim.
Well: Aftez his MAfoni.#hm=nt wai  litl:OVer it~
PO pidtoint       uand fetch Itbe MrdI   a
ihot wihhh he dibut flay'd fome T~ime; ~for the Par
rot not bein4g qpite dead,, was ihatter'd,a gpedl way. a F,
from. the Place, wh~ere %h,  el  oe,h  foci nd hfr,
hoMIer U~P, and  rugther jqi       n, sIhr
pprceiV 1'd bis Ignorance ~aboq* th  (3un ~belore, I took,
thiis.Advaita~geto cha' rge the,- Gun agnin, -and~ not let
hidm fee me~do-it, thbat I ni~h,.-be ready Q~r any otlher
Mvark that mpight prefent; but nhigmore- of r'd, at
that Timte; I' I broi~gh hoe th  j;adtefame~
xvening I took, the Sin off, and cut it lou as well as I
~cpalJ, and ha-vin&; a ~Pot for that Pw~pofe, I1 boM' oir
Aew'id fame of the, tlelh, and a;,Mide fome v*ery, goadr
4   11 h4 l-e.Sn tloci ~at,, f'w=  J &,aye fibgxia




(204). to my Man, who feen'd very glad of it, and lik'd it
very well; but that which was fdrangefi to him, was
to fee me -at Salt with it: He made a Sign to me, that
the Salt was nct good to eat, and putting a little into
his own Mouth, he feem'd to nauieate it, and would
Ipit and fputter at it, wafiing his Mouth with fref
Water after it i on the other hand, I took fome Meat
in my Mouth without Salt, and I pretended to fpit and
Sputter for want of Salt, as fafl as he had done at the
Salt; hut it would not do, he would never care for
Salt with Meat, or in his Broth; at leaft, not a great
while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boil'd Meat and Broth, I
was refolv'd to feaft him the next Day with roafing a
Piece of the Kid; this I did by hanging it before the
Fire in a String, as r had feen marry People do in England, fetting two Poles up, one on each fide the Fire,
and one crots on the top, and tying the String to the
crofs Stick, letting the Meat turn continually: This,
Friday admir'd very much; but when he came to tafle
the Fleih, he took fo many ways to tell me how well he
lik'd it, that I could not but underlfand him; and at
afi he told me he would never eat Man's Flefh any
more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next Day I fet him to work to beating fomne Corn
out, and fifting it in the manner I ufed to do, as I obifer'd before; and he loon underftoed how to do it as
well as I, efpecially, after he had feen what the Meanpng of it was, ande that it was to make Bread of; for
after that I let him fee me make my Bread, and bake it
too; and in a little Time Friday was able to de all the
Work for me, as well as I could do it my felf.
X began rtow:to confider, that having two Mouths to
feed initead of one, I muft provide more Ground for
my Harveft, and plant a larger Quantity of Corn than
I tfed to do  fo I mark'd out a larger Piece of Land,
*Anil began the Fence in the fane manner as before, in
which Friday not only worked very willingly and very
tard, but did it very chearfully; and I' todt him what
it was for, that it was for Corn to make more Bread,
becaufe hewas now with me, and that I might have
cough. for him ahd my felf tao: He appear'd very fen-.ible




( 205 )
fible ofthat Part, and let me know, that he thought I
had much more Labour upon me on his Account, than
I had for my felf; and that he would work the harder
for me, if' would tell him what to do.
This was the pleafanteft Year of all the Life I led in
this Place: Friday began to talk pretty well, and tun
derltand the Names of almoft every Thing I had Occalion to call for, and of every Place I had to fend him to,
and talk a great deal to me; f that, in fhort, I began
now to have fome ufe for my Tongue again, which in.
deed I had very little Occafion for before; that is to
fay, about Speech: Befides the Pleafure of talking to
him, I had a fingular Satisfaation in the Fellow himfelf;
his fimple unfeign'd Holnefy appear'd to me more and
more every Day, and I began really to love the Crea.
ture; and on his Side, I believe he tov'd me more
than it was pofible for him ever to love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering Inclination to his own Country again; and having learn'd
him Englifh fo well, that he could anfwer me alnoft any.ueftions, I ask'd him whether the Nation that he
belong'd to never conquer'd in Battle? At which he
fmil'd and faid, Yes, yes, we always fight the better;
thatis, he meant always get the betterin Fight, and fo w;
began the following Difcourfe. You always fight the better, faid I, How came you to be taken Priibner then
Friday?
Friday. My Nation beat much, for all that.
Malter. How beat; if your Nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?
Friday. They more than my Nation in the Place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me: My
Nation over-beat them in the yonder Place, where me
no was, there myNation take one, two, great ThJufand
Mlafiter. But why did not your Siderecover yId ar&
the Hands of your Enemiesthen?
friday. They run one; two, three, and me, and:rfake
go in the Canoe; my Nation have no Canoe that Time.
Mafler. Welt, FridaY, and what does your Nationi dB
with the Men they take? Do they a'rry them awad
a4 eat them  as thiefe id?           '




( zo6)
F~ridayYem    Nation eat Man's too, eat, all uj,.
Milfler. Wheedo they'r      hem
Frida. Goo other Place were they think.
Arda hritDoeheyocom  hither
Frdy. Yes,, yes~, they co-me hte;cm   te   elfre
Mafler.~ Have, you beep ihereWt them?
Fridoy, Ye's, I ~en. here: EZjoints 'to the N. W. Side
of the lihind, wbdi,,c, it feems," wcqs theIr Side.-'
VBy this" I und-erflood, thatmy  an riday had formerlyben ampng -the Saags w     eatL1cJ to cone on Shore
on thle farthexr Part of'the Iflapd, 'on~ -the Laid Man- eating Occafions tha tl-hewas now bro~vught for;,andi fonie,time after, when I took the Courage to carry himl to
that Side, being the fame I formerly mlention'.d,- he prefently itnew the Pla'ce, amd, torld me~, h-e wa's there Dnce
'when they ea"p wnYMetoWmn and one
iChild': H-e 'could 'not tell' tw-enty in Englifi, but he
rautnber'd them by layinpg fo many Stones in a Row, and
pointing tome to,,telf them, overi.
I have, told, this Paftahg, becqaure it, introdttces What
follows,; that after I had ha  this. Difcourfe -%with hini11
I ask'd him how far-it was from our Ifland to the Shore,
~p w~thr h Cnoswere not often. loft: He told mec
there was no 1)ngr no Canoes e ver lof  blthat, after a, itk way oux p $ea, t hee   s aCret    n
Win 'alwalys spno S~ay 4iteMring     the othe  i
thb6 Afternoon.
This I.u-nderIIQp to be ni -netan, tc Sets of the
~Tie,.as oig ot,  r ~mig ~L;hu I afterwards urn
clerftood 'it was oc a' IOn'd by the great Draf't and RCilwc ofh mig,  i Y River, iJr~~zqe; in the Muh. 5
W l W, Rier. a ~45  thg   aerwvards,.ourrIfland lay.;
and ~,'thtthis La4~b~   erceive  ta~   W,   and,was_ th ~ra    a4Tiia          she North
~'44~fteMor ~f      M~vrJ!A4* aFria   tbou'
'fa nd   f~eltons abo-ut " 7sty  the. Lnaia   tsati
$e, tFC~A41, and, wa 4trs wipre near; be olrd
~e allbe I~i~w, wsh th    Pee=~ O fr$n{ imaghbe:
1  sk4  in  th. N es    the14~.. loweralN Ntion of hIs%br~  f~opei~zt otl~et~ootey Name than GeiS;
~f~rh~~nc  I ail~r ide1e~:~  vwrer the
car b




(mr~bkeer, which, our Maps, place on that Part of Amj~rica, which reaches fromt the Mouth of' theRieOrwpoqe to, Gutitso, axd onwards to St. Martha,: He told,
nie,that up a great way beyond the Moon, that was,
byond, the fetting of the Moon, wh)ich rufl be WN.
from their Country, there dwelt white-bearded Ment,
like me; and pointed to- my great. Whiskers, which 1
mention'd bere; ndthat they bad Milld much Ml~zs-,
that~ was his W  d   y11Which I inderflood be
ment mh 7~iards,. whofe Crueltie~_ in6 America h adt
~been f-pread- over the whole C~Gsrames,) and -were re-.
meznber'd by allthe N  latns$ro  Fathr. to Son.
O urd if hie ould tells me- how I m~gh come from
this I flaod, and get among ~thofie white M In he told
ne$, Yes, Yes, I might go in two Can-c; I couild not
underfi and what he- m.eant by- tro Cravoe, ill ati lafi, with
geat Diffic Ulty, I fdund 'he menwt,4 that it~ it~ift be- in a?iarg great. Joot, aisbig as two Ow Caies.
V~his,Pjart of Fdv'li(crfbgnt       efhwith
-me, very -1ell, anda" f~b  thi44tn0 IL enttain'd -fomle
Hopes, tha  ono, time -o o thex I.' zigbt, Iind an-Ojr
tunity to make tn, y Efcape from -this,. Place, and- that
this Poor Sayvagg inh~ beA means u help me to
dIo it.
During Ihe lopgt-imp thai frdii' hoad i~wj~ been with
mean~ tht b  bean ~ Ije~  ti4~,Atd tubderfiaud
his Farber z Olu' f topk it- by- anot-he, Handle, andx
ask'd him who made the Sea, the-Gro'usdhevwalk'A
4ni *nd. the 'Hills t~ad Wo4v? Lier zbh W   "itwa
jDUOricolt   4c.ke.tstliId n          i~ WBe: coual
4ef,-t iathin  o this groat~ Pan, rm  but that he'Ws
very 4d4; _rih  xl~,ht-~ai4& tihn -tht Seiir h
~d,_ i than di  t Mwn COt tb# Stars telk$r hei
Ithip oJ, a'rIfpn hb4,,ax al tigs  hy did- not all
thaiusg Weriip himi He. Ikd    er grmi:- and wvith
j s~Ihm if the Prople mwho dis~i his Country
mo         Am i       f~   a~,~Y~y*~w         n






(  '8)
Ieam'uckee: Then I ask'd him', wyhether thefe they,eat up went thither too? He faid,' Yes.
From thel1' ~Things I began to inlru&: him ~in the
K~nowledge ofthe true God. I told him~, that the 'great
-Maker of all Things.lived up there, poirdting up towards Heaven: That he governs the World by -the
fame Power and Providence by which he had made it:
That he was Oinnipotent, could do every thing for us,
give every thing to us., take every thing from us; and
thus, by Degrees, I open'd his Eyes: He liflen'd with
-great Attentionl, and, received With Pleafure the Noti.
oil of Yefus Chi jit being i~nt.1to redeem us, and of the
mnanner of making'- our Prayers to God, and his being~
able-to hear us, even into H-eaven: He told mle one
Day, that if our God c-ould: hear ts upbeyond the Sun,
he ul needs, he a greater- God than theiri Benamackee,
who liv'd but a little way oft and yet could not hear.,
till they went up to' the great Mountains where he
dwel;It, to fpeak to him:~ I ask'& hIiffi)if ever he, vent
~thifther to f-peak to him: H e W~IdNo, they ile~er-we:-It.
that were -young Mett; ho~ne~ went; thither'but the old
Men, who he call'd their Ocotiaakee, that is, 'as- I jnad
himteaplain it.'to me, their Religions., or Clergy;.'and
that they went to 'fay 0, (fo he c'all~d faying Prayerse)
*ad 'then ~,a~r*Ie batk", a'nd told tbhim wh-at Berni*uc-kee
fid,: -Bythis I -obfiervd3" thatv there is riefi-Ardjt even
amnfb he -mofbll-blndd ignor-ant Pagarfs ~in the World;
and the Polioyf okMaki g, 4t -fecretRe7ligion, in order to
-preferve. the, Veneratiwn qt the People to& the~ Clergy,
asnoc onl tob-bdi      h   eabut perhs
rnong~all Religions in thMorld weven among, the mi-oft
brutithi and,barba" ous"Sa~Vagew.
1 e*&deVoiar' toclearu  hi  ta  to myMail Eri
do, and told:hhilkl' thai the Prtt~nct ofthi MCA14~
goi ng, utp to theMw nant  a 0t   hi    o    ea
ck~eej wa, ha      andi 'their-qiinging Wcord fy'unA
thenC'e; ha~ie aid, "Wait Mdch) nIoe fe; ta 4thy
met; wihayvnwr ofpkev wlfh~ an         hotle t   it
mIlutllewta e~v ifSpirit~ And lhf~i mlinei~d Ittt
Of heims his Rebelion, qgainai God, hbi'sE~nMht*ifo litan
the Smfa~vcfi~, thit fetin iznrf-WuMie4kPW




( 209   )
of the World to be worfhip'd inftead of God, and as God;
and the many Stratagems he made ufe of; to delude
Mankind to their Ruin X how he had a fecret Accefs to
our Pairons, and to our Affe&ions, to adapt his Snares
fo to cur Inclinations, as to caufe us even to be our own
Tempters, and to run upon our own DeftruAion by our
own Choice.
I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right Notions in
his Mlind about the Devil, as it was about the Being of
a God: Nature affifted all my Arguments to evidence
to him even the Necefity of a great firft Caufe, and
over-ruling governing Power, a iecret, dire&ting Providence, and of the Equity and Juftice of paying Homage to him that made us, and the like: But there appear'd nothing of all this in the Notion of an evil Spirit, of his Origil;al, his Being, his Nature, and above
all, of his Inclination to do Evil, and to draw us into
do fo too: And the poor Creature puzzled me once in
luch a manner, by a Queftion merely natural and innocent, that I fcarce knew what to fay to him: I had
been talking a great deal to him of the Power of God,
his Omnipotence, his dreadful Averiion to Sin, his being a confuming Fire to the Workers of Iniquity; how,
ashe had made us all, he could deftroy us and all the
World in a Moment; and he liften'd with great Serioufnefs to nle all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the Devil
was God's Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and us'd all
his Malice and Skill to defeat the good Defigns of Providence, and to ruin the Kingdonl of Chrift in the
World, and the like: Well, fays Friday, but you fay,
God is ob ftrong, fo great, is he not much ftrong, much
might as the Devil? Yes, yes, fays I, Friday, God is.
fronger than the Devil,God is above theDevil,and there
fore we pray to God to tread him under our Feet, and
enable us to refift his Temptations, and quench his fie.
ry Darts. But, fays he again, if God muc/h frong, muc
mwgbt as the Devil, why Gcd no kill the Devil fi  make
him no more wticked?
I ws ftrangely fiirpriz'4 at his Queftion, and after all,
tho' I was now an old Man, yet I was but a young
Do4tor and ill enough qualified for a Cafiaift, or a Sol-,
vet




vor of Difficulties: And, at firfl, I could not tell what
to lay; fo I pretended not to;hear him, and ask'd him
what he laid. But he was too earneft for an Antfwer to
forget his Qteftionr; fo that he repeated it in the very
fmhe broken Words, as above. By this time I had recover'd myfelf a little, arid [ faid, God will at laf puwjifb
him feverely, he is referv'd for the Judgment, and is to
be ca/t into the bottomlefs Pit, to dwell with everlafling
Fire: T his did not fatisfy Friday, but he returns upon
me, repeating my Words, Referve at Laft, me no underfiand, But wby not kill fhe Devil now, not kill great a.
go? Ycu may as well ask Me, faid I, why God does not
kill you and L; when we do wicked things here that offend him: We are prefermed to repentand be pardon'd.
He mufies a while at this; Well, we/l, lays he, mighty
- affe&ioately tbat well foyu, I, Devil, all wicked, all
preferve, repen. Godpardon al: Here I was run down
again by him to the laft degree, and it was a Teftimony to me, how the mere Notions of Nature, tho' they
will guide reafonable Creatures to the Knowledge of a
God, and of a Worihip or Homage due to the Supreme
Being of God, as the Confequence of our Nature; yet
xathing but Divine Revelation can form the Knowledge
of Yejbs Cbrift, and of a Redemption purchas'd for us;
of a Mediator ofa new Covenant, and of an Intereefl
for, at the Footftool of God's Throne; I fay, nothing
but a Revelation from  Heaven can form thefe in the
Soul) and that therefore theGo4pel of our Lord and
Saviour Tefs Chrift, I Imean, the Word of God, and
the Spirit of God, promifed for the Guide and San&ifier of his P'eople, are the abfolutely neceflary Inftru&ors
oftheSouls of M e in the faving Knowledge of God,
and the msans of Salvation.
"'I therefore diverted the prefent Difcourfe between me
and my Man, rifing up haftily, as upon fome fadden
Occafton of going out; then fending him for fomething
a        aood way- of  I ferioufly pray'd to God, that he
would ehabIe me to inflru& favingly this poor Savage,
affitling by his Spirit the Heart of the poor igndrant
(reaire, to receive th Ligit ftie Knowledge of God
lCri/C  ~,:e.o'ciing him to himfelf, aind would guide
mc to feakt fo to him from the Word of God, as his
'                                           Con



Conrlience mitght be' cohvinc'd h1is Eyes open'd, aind
his Soul fay'd:- W h~e he came again to mre, I enter'd
into a long Diftcourfe- with him- upon the Subje&t of
the Redenp-tion of Mat' by the~ Saviour 'of -the World,,
and of the tDo6~rinde of the Gof'je1 pre'ach'dfr'oniHei~'
yven, vit. of~ Re'pentance, wovards God, and Faith in our
hleffed Lor4l.-eji: I then exp~la'n"d bq9 him., as weV as
I could, wvhv'~ our bleffed Redeemer took not air him,
the Nature of Angels,) but the Sedo Arolham, and
how fbr that Realoin the f~llen Angels had no Share in
the ke'demlnion; that he c~rne only to' 'the loft Sep
of' the Houl'e~ of If-rael, and the like.
I ha-d, GCod kn'ows, more. Sincerity tbatr Knowledge,
in all the, Methods  taook for this' poor CreatureslIiP
firufflon, 'an-d mnull acknowledg e what I -believe 'all
tat a&E upoti the fame Principle wIl  id thati
layin-g 'Things open to, him, I really inform'd and
inhrid n feif in manyThings. that either I did not
know,~ or hid not fully confider'd before; but which
voccur&d naturaly to mly mind, ~ upon my fearching into
them;t for,' the-I nformationo this poor -SAavae;and I
had, morke Affie&ion~ in I myl Erfqtiry after, Thngs upon
this Occafitio, then; ever I felt before; fo thtwhether
this poor wvil d W retch was, thie bette r for ma "or no
had,' fret0afbn to -be thankful tha~t eVer be -came to
meMd    G-rief fet lighter u pon mne, my Habitation
grew cortffhrtable`to me beyond meafure;, and when I
reedtiinthis fllitar Lifie w~hic I hadi been conlndtoot,M Ihfd ot' "only benmoV'd my felf'to look
to Heav en, a`id&`feek'~to t~h4Hand- that,biough~t m
there,` htir wavnow to~ -be made a~r Inftrtltnent, under
Prov'ide'nce` to rav~ ''the Li~fl ald, frogt  knivtb
Soul4 of~ 9,,p b Savage, ~arid-bring- hfi~i to the6 tint K nowledge of Religion, and of the Chtiftian`.Oofrine, that
he migh~t knovw Chrifijefust '6,kovi wbb~m is.L'fe eternal.
I fay, wheA IL fefile&ed upon all thefe things, a fecret
Jo  und th rio every I'art ofa ol   1n frequen'tly
reo~~t~eerIwi~'i9Mg~ ft,    h1 Plade whh
I' afo ~6rtenrthougt te Daino  droadfiul tf all Aiti
on;tht brid pobly htv befailitMena., t,,,, ", -,',                                       I                                           I
i             I                              i?
4, v, 11 4, j ;  'k,     o        o          " .   I'-,   -,          4       -,         J      J     I


tll




(  ii2 )
In this thankful Frame I continued all the Remainde
of my Time, and the Converfation which employ'd th
Hours between Friday and I, was fuch, as made the
three Years which we liv'd there together, perfe6ly
'and compleatly happy, if any fSuc Tbzng as crmpleai.lappinefs can be frm'd in a fublunary State: T he Sa
age was now a good Chriflian, a much better than I
'thO' I have Reaion to hope, and blefs God for it, that
we were equally penitent, and comforted reftored Pe
nitents: We had here the Word of God to read, and nc
farther off from his Spirit to inftru&, than it we had
been in England.
I always apply'd me felf to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the Meaning of what
I read; and he again, by his ferious Enquiries and
Quefiions, made me, as I laid befjre, a much better
Scholar in the Scripture-Knowledge, than  i fhould ever
have been by my own private meer reading: Another
thing I cannot refrain fron obferving here alfo from Experience, in this retired part of my Life, vi(. How infilite and inexprefible a Blefing it is, that the Ktnowledge of God, and of the Dcgtrine of Salvation byChrift
YeJus, is fo plainly laid down in the UWord of God, fo
eaty to be rcceiv'd and underftood,, that as the bare
reading the Scripture made me capable of underfianding enough of my Duty to carry me dire&tly on to the
great,Work of fincere Repentance for my Sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for Life and Salvation, to a fiated
Retbrmation in Pratice, and Obedience to all God's.Commands, and this without-any Teacher or Inftruftor
(I mean, human) fo the fame plain infiru4ti  lufI fideritly ferv'd to the enilghtning this lavage Creature,
and bringing him to be:fuch a Chrifian, as I have
known few equcl to him in my Life.
As to the Difputes, Wranglings, Strife, and Contention, which has happen'd in the World about Religion,
whether Niceties in Doctrines, or Schemes of ChurchGovernment, they were all perfce&ly felefs to us, as for
ought I ean yet fee, they iave been to all the ret in
the World: We had thefre Guide to Heaven, vit the
Word of God   and we had, ble14d be OCd, comfortable
iews of the Spirit of God, teaching and inftru6ing us
rI




(   13 )
by his Wora, leading us- into all Truth, aen  making us
both willing and obedient to the Inftrudion ot his
Word   and I cannot fee the leaft Uie that the greateft
Knowledge of the difpated Points in Religion, which
have made fuch Confufions in the World, would have:
been to us, if we could have obtained it: But I mufl
go on wfth the'Hiftorial Part of Things, and take every
Part in its Order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he cculd underftand altmofl all I laid to
him, and fpeak fluently, tho' in broken Englifj, to me;
I acquainted him with my own Story, or at leaft fo
much of it as related-to my coming into the Place, how
I had liv'd there, and how long: I let him into the
Myflery ( for fuch it was to him) of Gunpowder and
Bullet, and taught him how to ioot: I gave him a
Knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with, and
I made him a Belt, with a Frog hanging to it, fuch as
in England we wear Hangers in; and in the Frog, intlead ofa Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, which was
not only as good a Weapon in bome Gafes, but much
more ufeful upon many Occafions. -
I defcrib'd to him the Countrys of Europe, and partiCularly England, which I came from; how we liv'd,
how we worfhip'd God, how we behav'd to one another; and how we traded in Ships to all the Parts of
the Wbrld: I gave him an Account of the Wreck which
1 had been on board of, and ilew'd him as near as I
cold the Place where fhe lay; but fhe was all beaten
in Pieces long before, and quite gone.
I fhew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we kht
when we-fcapd,, and which I could not ftir with nmy
whale Strength then, but was now fallen almoft all to
Piects: Upon feeing this Boat, Friday ftood muting a
great while, and faid nothing; I askd. him what it
was he fludied upon; at laft, Iays he, me fre fuc Boat
like come ts Place at my Naticn.
I did not uhderfalnd him a good while; but at laf,
when I had examin'd further into it, I underftood by
him, that a Boat, fuch as that had been, came on Ihore
Kpon te Country where he liv'd, that is, as he explain'd it, was driven thither by Strefs of Weather: I
prefent.




("I`4


rirt{entiy I'iagi'Wd, that,fo me-,Eiarope4n $btjinmtifl hIavle
been c4 t~away Uponthei   co4.n the, ]Boa nfighc
get look and! drive, airfiore, btwsf Iduli, thtI ne
ver- once~ thought of Men- in~king 0(cape firoma' Wreck
thither, muc~h kesi whercee they, miight coni&; fo I onl11y
cenquir'd after a Defecription of the Boat.
Friday defcril~d the Boat to mile well enough; b)ut
brought me lbetter to underifand him, when he added,
with fome Warmth, We fave ehe White Mlans- fron dirowon
'Then I prefently ask'd him, if there wvereiany white
Ivans, as he-cAlld themn, in the -Boat? 27es hie fa1id,
the Bcat ftdl` ef White, A1jans: I ask'd hfim  how many?
Re told -upon h is Figeseveateen. I ask'dc him, then
what became of 'em? He-I toldt ne,,Thjey live, Athey dwell
aet My, Nation.
This put new Thbiughts, into my Head again; for I
p~refrntly injagin'4,,a thatebf4 migtbe  4e NnbeoThg to the Ship that- wtts caaf away. in flight -of tn Ifland,
as;I now call dit; an  who, afte~r the; hpwAs trc,n t~eRcand thy i~w herinieviitakl~y {IQ  had, fav'd
tihemfelyvcs in, theic, Boa, fan&d  ere, lianed,upon Ith~at
wild Shore, among the Savage
Upon this,, Ienquir'd of- him- more critically, whait
was become of them; he alr'xd. ime' they jiv'd l~lthere;
T~hat t'hey bad been the-re about four, Years thIat the 5a~
vageslet themra~lone, and.gave ~.thom Vi&uils to livec
Iakdim  hoitcame to psthydidl not kill then'.apd eat thbem?  He  ai d, N thy mqke Brother ~wit
bem,that -is, -as, I underflood hi'm, a Truce: And then
li added, They no eat M4n  but when mrake, the War~
fight: That it to fay,. they never eat any j~en, butfcl
as come to figh-t with them., and,-are taken in'Battel.
it was, after this, fome confideralble Time that being
on the Top, of the H-ill, at th e,Exfl fide OFthe Ifland,
14-o whene as   have faicd, Lbhad ina cl ar,Day difovr4the, Main or, Cont inent of Amerca; 'Frday, the

warlds the main- 1~nd, and~ in a~ kind oil Surpu fall
a umpng aiddnig and calls out to me,, forIwa
at fumec Dillac:from, him:,  s'  i   wa    a   h
IV~atter;O! f~se    QGlad,$ There fre     Co':P
tryJjee 'NJ 2*te4_a4


I ob.




-( 2I5 )r
I obferv'd an extraordinary Senle of Pleafure appear'l
in his Face, and his Eyesfparkled, and his Countenance
difcover'd a itrange Eagernefs, as if he had a Mind to
be in his own Country. again; and this Oblervation of
mine put a great many Thoughts into me, which made
me at firit not fo eafy about my new Man Friday, as I
was before; and I made no doubt, but that if Friday
could get back to his own Nation again, he would not
only forget all his Religion, but all his Obligation ti
me; and would be forward enough to give his Coun.
trymen an Account of me, and come bck perhaps,
with a Hundred or two of them, and make a Feaft upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he ufed to be
with thofe of his Enemies, when they were taken in
War.
But I wrong'd the poor honeC Creature very much,
for which I was very forry afterwards: However as
my Jealoufy increas'd, and held me fome Weeks, I was
a little more circumfpe&, and not fo familiari and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainily in thex wrong
too, the honeft grateful Creature having no Thought
about it, but what confifted with the beit Principle,
both as a religious Chriftian, and as a grateful Friend,
as appear'd alterwards to my full Satisfa&ion.
While my Jealouly of him lafted, you may.be fure I
was every Day pumping him to fee if he would;diiiwver any ofthe new Thoughts, which I fufpe&ed were
in him; but I fbund, every thing he faid was fo honeft,
and fo innocent, that, I could lind nothing to nqurilh
my Sufpicion; and, in fpite of all my lineafinefs, be
made me at laft entirely his own again; nor did he
in the leaft perceive sthat I -was uneafy, and therefore
I could not fulpea: him of Deceit.
One Day, walkirng tp th  ae me Hill, but the Weather being hazy at 5ea, fI that we could not fiee the
Continent, I all'd to him, and aid, Friday, do not
you wifh your Itlf in yqur own Country, your Own
Nation? Tes, he faid,: Ibe much  giad to be-at my ow
Natikn: What would you do there, faid I, would you
turn wild again, eat Mens Flefi again, and be a Savage as you were before?  He,look'd full of Concern,
and flakig his iHed, faid, N,  Friay tel tbhm to.i"" Nive




( 216 );ve good, tell them to pray God, tel them to eat Corn.
bread, Cattleflefh, Milk; no eat Man again: Why then,
faid I to him, They will kill you: He look'd grave at
that, and then faid, No, they no kill me, they wlling
love learn: He meant by this, they would be willing to
learn; He added, they learned much of the bearded
Mans that came in the Boat: Then I ask'd him, if he
would go back to them? He linil'd at that, and told
me he could not fwim fo far   I told him I wouli
make a Canoe for him; He told me, he would go, if I
would go with him. I go! fays I, why, they will eat
me if I come there: Ao, no, fays he, me make they no
eat ycu, me make they much love you: He meant, he
would tell them how I had killed his Enemies, and.fav'd
his Life, and fo he would make them love me: Then
lie told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to
fcventeen white Men, or bearded Men, as he oall'd
them, who came on Shore there in Diftrefs.
From this Time, I confefs, I had a mind to venture
over, and fee if I could poffibly join with thefe bearded Men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or PIrtugueJf; not doubting but, if I could, we might find
fome Method to efeape from thence, being upon the
Continent, and a good Company together, better than
I could from an liand forty Miles off the Shore, and alone without help: So, faster fome Days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of Diifourfe; and told him, I
would give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation;
and accordingly I carry'd him to my Frigate, which
lay on the other Side of the Ifland, and having clear'd
it of Water ( for I always kept it funk in the Water) I
Ibrought it out, fliew'd it him, and 'we both went into it.
I found he was a moft dextrous Fellow at managing
it, would make it go almoff as fwift and faft again as I,could; fo when he was in, Il laid to him, Well, now,
Friday, fiall we go to your Nation? He look'd very
'dull at my faying fc, which, it feems, was becaufe he
thought the Boat too fmall to go lb far: I told him then
I had a bigger;  o the next Day I went to the Place
where the firft Boat lay which I had made, but which
I could not get into the Water; he faid that was big
enough   but then, as I had taken no Care.of it, and it
had




( 217     )
had lain two or three and twenty Years there, the Suh
had fplit and dry'd it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, iuch a Boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough Vi#le, Drink, Bread, that
was his way of Talking.
Upon the Whole, I was by this Tine fo fix'd upon
mny Deiign of going over with him to the Continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he fhould;go home in it. He anfwer'ld not
one Word, but look'd very grave and fad: I ask'd himl
what was.the Matter with him; he ask'd me again
thus, Whby you angry mad with Friday, what me d ne?
I ask'd him what he meant; I told him I was not angry with lain at all: No anry! N2 angry! fays he, repeating the Words feveral times, Why fend Friday bhme
away to niy Nation?  NV hy, fays I, Friday, did you not
fay you wifh'd you were there?  Ts, yes, fays he,
zviJk be both there, no!ifh Friday there, no Aiafler there.
In a word, lie would not think of going there without
me: I go there, Friday, fays I, what fliall I do there?
He turn'd very quick upon me at this: Tou do great
deal much Good, fays he, you teach wild Mans be good
fober tame Mans; you tell them know God, pray Gcd, and
live new Lite: Alas, Friday, fays I, thou knowefl not
what thou fay'f, I am but an ignorant Man my felf.
Tes, yes, ifys he, you teach e me Good, you teachee them
Gocd. No, no, Friday, fhays I, you thall go without
me, leave mne ie to live by my felf, as I did before:
He look'd confus'd again at that Word, and running to
one of.the Hatchets, which he us'd to wear, le -takes
it up haifily, and gives it me; what muf I do with
this  fays I to him: Tcu take kill Friday, fays he:
What mult I kill you for? hfid I again; He returns
very quick, What you fend Friday away for? take kUll
Friday, no fetd Friday away: Tlis he fpoke to earneilly, that I faw Tears fland in his Eyes: In a wod,
I to plainly difcover'd the utmotl Affeiion in hini to
nme, and a firmRnefolution in himn  that T tld: him
then, and often after, that I would never fend hi away
from me, if he was willing to ftay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his Difcourfe' a
fettled Aftfieion to me, and that nothing fhould part
L                    him




( 2i8 )
him from me, fo If found all the Foundation of his Delire to go to his own Country, was laid in his ardent
Affe&ion to the People, and his Hopes of my doing
-them good; a Thing, which as I had no Notion of
my felt, fo I had not the leafi Thought, or Intention, or
Defire of undertaking it: But flill I found a ffrong
Inclination to my attempting an Efcape, as above,
founded on the Suppofition gather'd from the formerDi'courPl, viz. That there -were feventeen bearded Men
there, and therefore, without any Delay, I went to work
with Friday, to find but a great Tree proper to fell,
and make a large Periagua or Canoe to undertake the
-Voyage: There were I rees enough in the fland to
have built a little Fleet, not of Periagua's and Canoes
only, but even o' good largeVeflels: But the mainl hing
1 look'd at, was to get one fo near the Water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the Miflake
I committed at firft.
At laff, Friday pitch'd upon a Tree; for I found he
knew much better than I, what kind of Wood was firteft for it; nor can I tell, to this Day, what Wood to
call the Tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the Tree we call Fuflic, or between that and the NVcaragua Wood, tbr it was much of the famnl Colcur 4nd
Smell: Friday was for burning the Hollow or Cavity
of this Tree out, to make it into a Boat: But I fhew'd
him how ratherl to cut it out with Tools, which after I
fhewd hil how to ute, he did very handily, and in
about a Month's bard Labour we finifh'd it, and made
it very handfdrme, efpecially when with our Axes,
which I fliewd him how to handle, we cut and hew'd
the'Out-fide into the true Shape of a Boat; after this,
however, it coft us near a F6rtnights Time to get
her along, as it were, Inchf.:by Inch upon great Row!.
ers into the Water; But When fhe; was in, fite would
have carried twenty Men with great Eafe.
When fhe-was in the Water, and tho' ile wasfob big,
it atma'd me to fee ' ith what Dexterity and how fwift
myty:Man Fiidty would mantag her, turn her, and paddle her alon;: foI ask'd him if he Wvould, and if we
might venture over in her; Tes, he faid be venter over if. bcr vwr.itc, 4tbgbsgreat bIta Wind: However, I had
r  '.                 -",a




( 219   )
a farther Defign that he knew nothing of, and that
was to make a Malf and Sail, and to tit her with an
Anchor and Cable: As to a Mail, that was eafy enough
to get; ib I pitch'd upon a ihrait young Cedar-Tree,
which I found near the Place, and which there was
great Plenty of in the fland  and I fet Friday to work
to cut it down, and gave him Direftions how to fhare
and order it: But as to the Sail, that was my particular Care; I knew I had old Sails, or rather lieces of
old Sails enough; but as I had them now 26 Years by
me, and had not been very careful to preferve them,
not imagining that I Ihould ever have this kind ot ule
for then, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed moft of them were lb; however, I found two
Pieces which appear'd pretty good, and with thefe I
went to work, and with a great deal of Pains, and aukward tedious hitching ( you may be fure ) for Want of

like what we call in England, a Shoulder. of-tMuttonSail, to go with a Boom at Bottom, and a little ihort
Sprit at the Top, fuch as ufually our Ships Long-LBoats
tail with, and fuch as I beft knew how to manage; be.
cauie it was fuch a one as I had to the Boat in which I
made my Efcape from Barbary, as related in the firft
Part of my Story.
I was near two Months performing this laft Work,
vt. rigging and fitting my Mait and Sails; for I fimilh'd themn very compleat, making a fmnall Stay, and a
Sail, or Forefail to it, to aitill, if we should turn to
Windward; and which was more than all, I fix'd a
Rudder to the Stern of her, to fleer with; and tho'
I was but a bungling Shipwright, yet as I knew  the
fe ifulnefs, and even Necefity of fuih a Thing, I applied
my felf with fo much.Pains to do it, that at lail I
brought it to pafs, tho' confidering the many dull Contrivances I had for it that fiil'd, I think it coRt me almoft as much Labour as making the Boat.
After all this was done, I had my Man Friday to
teach as to what belon'd to the Navigation of my Boat;
for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the Canoe,
he knew nothing what belong'd to a Sail and a Rudder,;4d was themanlf amaz'4 when he faw me work the
L 2                   Boat


Gi




( 220 )
Boat too and.again in the Sea by the Rudde:, and how
thie Sail gyb'd, and fill'd this Way or that Way, as the
Courfe, we fail'd, chang'd; I fay, when he tawv this,
he ftood like one aftonith'd and amaz'd: However,
with -a little Ufe, I made all thefe Things familiar to
him, and he became an expert Sailor, except that as to
the Compals, I could make him underhand very little of that: On the other Hand, as there was very
little cloudy Weather, and feldom or never any Fogs in
thole Parts, there was the lets Occafion for a Compafs, teeing the Starls wtere always to be feen by Night,
and the Shore by Day, except in the rainy Sealons,
and then no Body cared to fir abroad, either by Land
or Sea.
I was now enter'd on the feven and twentieth Year
of my Captivity in this Place; though the three laft
Years that I had this Creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the Account, my Habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the refi of the Time.
kept the Anniverfary of my landing here with the
tiahe Thankfulnefs to God for his Mercies, as at firft;
and if I had inch Caufe of Acknowledgment at firft,
I had much more fo now, having fuch additional Te1fimonies of the Care of Providence over me, and the
great Hopes I had of being effcAually and fpeedily deliver'd; for I had a-l invincible Impreffion upon my
Thoughts, that my Deliverance was at hand, and that
I ihould not be allother Year in this Place: However,
I went on with my Husbandry, digging, planting,
fencing, as ufial; I gather'd and cur'd my Grapes, and
did every neceffary Thing, as before.
The rainy Seafon was -in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within Doors than at other Times;
fo I had fIow'd our new Veffel as fecure as we could,
bringing her up into the Creek, where, as I faid in
the Beginning, I landed my Rafts from the Ship, and
haling her up to the Shore, at high Water Mark, I
made my Man Friday dig a little Dock, juft big enough
to hold her, and juft deep enough to give her Water
enough to float in; and then, when the Tide was out,
we made a ftrong Dam crofs the End of it, to keep
th: Water out; and fi Ihe lay dry, as to the Tide,
from




( 21     )  -
firom the Sea;and to keep theRain offwe laid a great many Boughs of Trees to thick, that Ihe wasas well thatched as-a Houie; and thus. we waited for the l1onth of
November and December, in which I defign'd to make
my Adventure.
When the fettled Seafon began to come in, as the
Thought of'my Deiign return'd with the fair Weather,
I was preparing daily for the Voyage; and the firft.'hing I did, was to lay by a certain (Quantity ot' Proviiions, being the Stores for our Voyage; and intended,
in a Week or a Fortnighlt's Time, to open the Dock,
and launch out our Boat:  was bul)' one Morning upon fomething ofthis kind, when I cill'd to Friday, and
bid him go to the Sea-fhore, and lee if he could find a
Turtle, or Tortoi'e, a Thing which we generally got
once a Week, for the fake ot the Eggs, as vell as the
Fitel; Friday had not been long gune, when hecame
running back, and flew over my outer Wall, or Fence,
like one that felt not the Ground, or the Steps he fet his
Feet on; and before I had Timne to lpeak to him, he cri-s
out to me, O Mafler! 0 Mafter! O 5' rr,.wt 0 bad! What's
the Matter, Friday? fays I; 0yonder thtere, fays he, one,
two, three Canoe! one, two, three! By this-wav of fpeaking I concluded there were fix; but on Enquiry I tbund
itcwas but three: Well, Friday fays I, do not be irighted; fo I heartned him up as well as I could: However,
I faw the poor Fellow was molt terribly fcared; for nothing ran in his Head but that they were come to look
for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and eat him;
and the poor Fellow trembled fo, that I fcarce knew
what to do with him: 1 comforted him as- well asicould, and told him I was in as much Danger as-he,
and that they woulld eat, me as well as him; but, fays
I, Friday, we muf t eJolvz to fighb them; Can you fglt,
Friday? MeJhoct, fays he, but there come manyj reat
Number. No matter for tlat, faid I again, our Guns
will fright them that we do not kill; fb I ask'd him,
Whether if I refolv'd to defend him, he would defend
me, and-f and by me, and do juft as I bid him? He faid,
Me die, when you bid die, Ma/ier; fo I went and fetch'd
agood Dram ofRum, and g4ve him; for I had lten 1a'
good a Husband ofmyy Rum) that I had a greatdeal left;
L 3               Whern




( 222 )
When he had drank it, I made him take the two Fowling-l-ieccs which we always carry'd, and load then
with large Swan-Shot, as big as Ihnall Piftol Bullets;
tien I tuck fiur Muskets, and loaded them  with two
flttgs, and five Imall Bullcts each; and my two Piaiols
I loaded with a brace of Bullets each: I hung my great
Sword as ufual, naked by my fide, and gave Friday his
Hatchet.
Vi hen I had thus prepar'd my felf, I took my Per.
foedtive Glafs, and went up to the fide ot the Hill, to
fee what I could difcover; and I found quickly, by my
Glafs, that there were one and twenty Savages, three
Pri'oners, and threeCanoes;and that their whole Bufinefs
e:emed to be the triumphant Banquet upon thefe three
humlan Bodies, (a barbarous Feaft indeed) but nothing
nmore than as I had obferv'd was ufual with them.. I obferved alib, that they were landed not where they
had done when Friday made his Elcape, but nearer to
my Creek, where the Shore was low, and where a thi:k
Wood came clofe almofd down to the Sea: This, with
tie Abhorrence of the inhuman Errand thefr Wretches,
gme about, fill'd me with iuch Indignation, that I came
down again to Ftiday and told him, I -was refolved.to r.to dewy to them, and kill them;all; and ask'd him if:
'the would ftand by me? He was now gotten over his
Wright, and his Spirits being a little rais'd with the
Dram I had given him, he was very chearful, and told
me, as before, be would die, when 1 bid die.
In this Fit of Fury, I took firft and divided the
Arms which I had charg'd, as before, between us: I
gave Friday one Piftol to ftick in, his Girdle, and three
Guns upon his Shoulder; and I took one Pifol, and
the other three my felf; and in this Poflure we march'd
out: i took a fmall Bottle of Rum in my Pocket, and
gave Friday a large Bag with more Powder and Bullet;
and as to Orders, I charg'd him to keepclofe behind me,
and notto ftir,or fhoot, or do any thing,tillI bid hini;and
in the mean time, not to fpeak a Word: In this Pofture
I fctch'd a Compafsto my Right Hand of near a; Mile,
as well to get over the Creek, as to get into then Wood;
fo that I might come within fhot of them before I ihould
be difcover'd, which I had fcen by my Glafs it was eafy
to do.                                      Wh




( 223 )
While I was making this March, my former Thoughts
returning, I began to abate my Rlfolution; I do not
mean, that I entertain'd any Fear of their Number; for
as they were naked, unarm'd Wretches, 'tis certain I
was luperior to them; nay, though I had been alone;
but it occur'd to my Thoughts, What Call? What Occation? much lets, What Neceffity, I was in to go and
dip mny Hands in Blood, to attack People, who had
neither done or intended me any Wrong? Who, as to
me were innonent, and whofe barbarous Cufloms were
their own Difafter, being in them  a Token indeed of
God's having left them, with the other Nations of that
part of the World, to ifchl Stupidity, and to Tu:h inhtman Colurles; but did not call me to take upon me to
be a Judge of their A&ions, much lefs an Executioner
of his Juitice; that whenever he thought fit, he would
take the Caufe into his own Hands, and by National
Vengeance punihl them   for National Crimes; but
that, in the mean Time, it was none of my Bufinefs;
tllhat it was true, Friday might juftify it, becaufe he was
a declar'd Enemy, and in a tate of War with thofe very particulat People, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not fay the fame with refpect
to nme  Thefe Things were ib warmly prels'd upon
my Thoughts all the Way as I went, that I relblv'd I
would only go place my felf near them, that I mightl
oblerve their barbarous Feaft, and that I would ab
then as God flould dire&; but that unlefs fonething
offer'd that was more a Call to me than yet I knew ot,
I would not meddle with them.
With   this Refolution I entered. the Wood, and
with all, poffible Warynefs and Silence (Friday following
clole at my Heels) I march'd till I came to the Skirt
of the Wood, on the Side which was next to them; only
that one Corner of the Wood lay between me and thenm
Here I call'd foftly to Friday, and fhewing him a great
Tree, wlich was juft at the Corner of the Wood, 1 bad
him go to the Tree, and bring me word if he could feq
there plainly what they were doing; he did fo, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly view'd there y that they were all about thQ
'.;;  -,: 4             I,  F ir




(     24)
Fire, eating the Flefl of one of their Prifbners; and
that another lay bound upon the Sand., a little from
them, which he faid they would kill next, and which
fir'd all the very Soul within nme: He told me it was
not one of their Nation, but one of the bearded Menl,
who he had told me of; that came to their Country in
the Boat: I was fil'd with Horror at the very naming
the white.bearded Man, and, going to the Tree, I law
plainly, by my Glafs, a white Man, who lay upon the
Beach of the iea, with his Hands and his Feet ty'd with
Flags, or T hins like Rutfhes, and that he was an European, and had Cloaths on.
'IThere was another Tree, and a little Thicketbeyond
it, a:bout fifty Yards nearer to them than the Place
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I faw
I might come at undifcover'd, and that then I fhould be
within half Shot of them; lo I with-held my Parlion,
though I was indeed enrag'd to the higheft Degree, and
going back abbut twenty Faces, I got behind fome Bufhes,
which held all the way, till I came to the other Tree, and
then I came to a little rifing Ground, which gave me a
tull View of them, at the Dittance ofabout eighty Yards.
I had now not a Moment to lofe; for nineteen of
the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground all clofe
huddled together, and had jutt lent the other two to
hutcher the poor Chrflian, and bring him perhaps Limb
by Limb to their Fire; and they were ftoop'd down to
untie the Bands at his Feet I turn'd to Friday, now,
riday, faid I, do as I Hit thee; Friday faid he would;
then, F. iday, fays i, do exatly as you fee me do, fail
in nothing; fo I fet down one of the Muskets and the
Fowling- Piece upen the Ground, and Friday did the
like by his; and with the other Musket I took my Aim.
at the Savages, bidding him do the like; then asking
him, if he was ready? he faid, Yes; then fire at them,
fLid I; and the farne Moment I fir'd alfo.
Friday took his Aim fo much better than I, that on
the fide that he fhot, he kill'd two of them, and wounded three more; and on my fide, I kil'd one, and wounded two: They were, you may be fure, in a dreadful Confernation; and all of 'em who were not hurt, jump'd up
upon their Feet immediately, but did not know which
Way




( 225 )     -
Way to run, or which Way to look; for they knew not
from whence their Deftru&ion came: Friday kept his
Eyes clofe upon me, that as I had bid him, he might
obferve what I did; fo, as loon as the firlt Shot was
made, I threw down the Piece, and took up the Fowling-Piece, and Friday did the like; he fee me cock, and
prelent, he did the fame again; Are you ready? Friday,
faid I; yes, fays he; let fly then, fays I, in the Name
of God, and with that I fired again among the amaz'cd
Wretches, and fo did Friday; and as our Pieces were nowloaden wvith what I call'd Swan-Shot, or fmall Piflol
Bullets, we found only two drop; but to many were
wounded, that they ran about yelling and skreaming
like mad Creatures, all bloody, and milerably wounded,
toofl of them; whereof three moure fell quickly after,,
though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, fays I, laying down the difcharg'4l pie'
ces, and taking up the Musket, which was yetbloaden,
fbllow me, fays I; which he did, with a deal o'r Courage; upon which I rufh'd out of the Wood, and fhewv'cd
my felf, and Friday clofe at my Foot.: As obon as I perceiv'd they faw me, I ihouted as loud as. I could, and
bad Friday do fo too; and runnirig.as fift as I could,
which by the way was not very fai, being loaden with Arms:
as I was, I made dire&ly towards~ the poor Vid&iin,
who, was, as I faid, lying upon the Beach, or Shore,
between the Place where they fat and the Sea; the two
Butchers, who were julf going to work with hilm, had
left him, at the Surprize of our firft Fire, and fled in
a terrible Fright to the Sea-fide, and hAd jtimp'd into aCanoe, and three more of the reftl made the fame Way::
I turn'd to Friday, and bid him ftep forwards, and fire
at them; he undertlood me immediately, and running
about forty Yards to be. near them, he fhot at them,
and I thought he had kill'd them. all: for I faw them all
fall of a Heap into the Boat; though I faw two of them
up again quickly: However, he kill'd two of.them, and
wounded the third, fo that he. lay d6wn in the Bottomi
of the Boat, as if he had been dead.
While my Man Friday fir'd at them; I ptrffim&out my
K nife, and Put the Flags that bound the poor"Vitim;
and loofing his Hands and Feet, I lifted him up, an4




( 226 )
ask'd him in the.Prtugaefe Tongue, What he was? He
anfwer'd Jin Latin, CbriJiianus; hut was lb weak and
faint, that he could fcarce fland, or ipeak; I took my
Bottle out of my Pocket, and gave it him, making figns
that le fhould drink, which he did; and 1 gave him a
]-iece of Bread, which he eat; then I ask'd him, A hat
Countryman he was? And he faid, Ejpagnole; and being alittle recover'd, let me know by all the figns he
could pollibly make, how muzh he was in my Debt for
his Deliverance: Seignivr, laid I, with as much SpaniJb
as I could make up, we will talk afterwards, but we
muft fight now; if you have any Strengt! left, take
this Piltol and Sword, and lay about you: He took
them very thankfully, and no fooner had he the Arms
in his Hands, but as if they had put new Vigour into
him, he flew upon his Murderers like a Fury, and had
cut two of them in Pieces in an Inftant; for the Truth
is, as the whole was a Surprize to them, fo the poor
Creatures were lb much fiighted with the Noi e of our
Pieces, that they fell down for meer Amazement and
Vear, and had no more Power to attempt their own Ef.
cape, thau their Flefh had to refilt our Shot; and that
Was the Cafe of thofe five that Friday fhot in the Boat;
fbr as three of then fell with the Hurt they receiv'd,
o the other two fell with the Fright.
I jept my Piece in my Hand ffill, without firing, begn willing to keep myCharge ready, becaufe I had given
the Spaniard my P'iiol and Sword; fo I call'd to Friday,
And bad him run up to the Tree froml whence we firft
fir'd, and fetch the Arms which lay there, that had
been difcharg'd, which he did with great Swiftnefs;
and then giving him my Musket, I fat down my felf
to load all the reft again, and bad them come to me
when they wanted: While I was loading there Pieces,
there happened a fierce Engagement between the Sp ani4rd and of one the Savages, who made at him with one of
their great wooden Swords, the fame Weapon that was
6o have kill'd him before, if I had not prevented it:
The Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could
be'imagin'd, tho' weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and bad cut him two great Wounds on his
Head; but the Savage being a flout lulty Fellow, clo*                        fing




227)'..
fing in with him, had thrown him down (being faint)
and was wringing my Sword out of his Hand, when:the Spaniard, tho' undermoil, wifely quitting his Sword,
drew the Fitol from his Girdle, flot the Savage through
the Body, and kill'd him upon the Spot, befbre I, who
was running to help. him, could come near him.
Friday being now left at his Liberty, purfu'd the flying Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand, but his
Hatchet; and with that he difpatch'd thofe three, who
as faid before, were wounded at firit and fallen, and
all the reft he could come up with; and the S3aniard
coming to me for a Gun, I gave him one of the Fowling-Pieces, with which he purfu'd two of the Savages,
and wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the Wood, where Friday
purfu'd them, and kill'd one of them; but the other was
too nimble for him; and tho' he was wounded, yet had
plung'dinto the Sea, and fwam with all his Mightoff
to thofe two who were left in the Cance, which three
in the Cance, with one wounded, who we know not
whether he dy'd or no, were all that efcap'd our Hands
of one and twenty. The Account of the reft is as
follows;
3 Kill'd at our firft Shot from the Tree.
2 Kill'd at the next Shot.
'2 Kill'd by Friday in the Boat.
2 Kiild byDitto, of thofe at firtt wounded
x Ki'd by Ditto, in the Wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Kill'd, being found dropt here and there of their
Wounds, or kill'd by Fiday in his Chace of them.
4 Efcap'd in the Boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead..
2l In all.
Thofe that were in the Canoe, work'd hard to get out
of Gun-fhot; and tho' Friday made two or three fhot
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them; Fri-.
dr: would fain have h-ad me taken one of their Cnoes.,
C-                                        flw




( 228 )
and purfued them; and indeed I was very anxicus about
their Efcape, left, carrying the News Home to their
People, they fhould come back, perhaps, with tx.o or
three hundred of their Cances, and devour us by meer
Multitude; fo I contented to purf'ue them by Sea; and
running to one of their CUanes, I jump'd in, and bad
Friday follow me; but when I was in the Cance, I was
furpriz'd to find another poor Creature lie there alive,
bound Hand and Foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
Slaughter, and almoft dead with Fear, not knowing
what the matter was; for he had not been able to look
up over the Side of the Boat, he was tied fo hard,
Neck and Heels, and had been tied fo long, that he
had really little Life in him.
I immediately cut the twilled Flags, or Rufhes,
which they had bound him with, and would have help'd
him up; but he could not {land, or [peak, but groan'd
moft piteoufly, believing, it feems, fill that he was only
unbound in order to be kill'd.
When Friday came to him, I bad him fpeak to him,
and tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling out my
Bottle, made him give the poor Wretch a Dram,
Which, with the News of his being deliver'd, revived.
him, and he fat up in the Boat; but when Friday came
to hear him fpeak, and look'd in his Face, it would
have moved any one to Tears, to have feen how Friday
kifs'd him, embraced him, hugg'd him, cry'd, laugh'd,
hollow'd, juip'd about, danced, fung, then cry'd again, wrung his Hands, beat his own Face and Head,
and then fung, and jump'd about again, like a diftrafed
Creature: It:was a good while, before I could make
him fpeak tmnie, or tell me what was the matter; bit
when he came a little to himfelt, he told me that it was
his Father.
It is not eafy for me to exprefs how it moved me
to fee what Extafy and filial Affeiion had work'd in
this poor Savage, at the Sight of his Father, and of his
being deliver'd from Death; nor indeed can I defcribe
hailf th Extravagances of his Affte6ion after.this; for
he went into the Boat ana out of the Boat a great many
times: When he went in to him, he would fit down by
him, open hisrBreafl, and hold his Father's Head clote
IM).....                                 tOr




( 229 )
to his Bofom, half an Hour together, to nour ih it;
then he took his Arms and Ankles, which were numb'd
anrd fiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his Hands; and I perceiving what the Cafe was,
gave him tome Rum out of my Bottle, to rub them
with, which did them a great deal of good.
This Ation put an End to our Furfuit of the Canoe,
with the other Savages, who were now gotten almoIt
out of Sight; and it was happy for us that we did not;
for it blew fo hard within two Hours after, and before.
they could be gotten a Quarter of their Way, and continued blowing fo hard all Night, and that from the
No:rth-Weft, which was againft them, that I could not
iitppofe their Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd
to their own Coaft.
But to return to Friday, he was fo bufy about his Father, that I could not find in my Heart to take him off
for rome time: But after I thought he could leave him
a little, I call'd him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing, and pleas'd to the higheft Extream: Then I
ask'd him, If he had given his Father any Bread? He
ihook his Head, and faid, None: Ugly Dog eat all up
felfl; fo I gave him a Cake of Bread out of a little
Pouch I carried on purpofe; I alfo gave him a Dram
for himfeif, but he would not tafte it, but carried it to
his Father: I had in my Pocket alfo two or three
Bunches of my Raifins, to I gave him a Handful of,
them for his Father: He had nb fooner given his Father thefe Raifins, but I faw him come out of the Boat,
and run away as if he had been bewltch'd; he run at
fuch a rate; for he was the fwitteft Fellow of his Foot
that ever I faw; I fay, he run at fuch a rate, that he
was out of fight, as it were, in an inftant; and tho' I
call'd and hollow'd too after him, it was all one, awayhe went, and in a Quarter of an Hour I faw him come,
back again, tho' not to faft as he went; and as he came"
nearer, I found his Pace was flacker, becaufe he had;
fomething in his Hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite c
Home for an Earthen Jugg, or Pot, to bring his Father
fome frefh Water, and that he had got two more Cakes
or Loaves of Bread: The Bread he gave me, but the...v                       - Water




(230)
Water he carried to his Father: However, as I was
very thirfly too, I took a little Sup of it: This Water
revived his Father nore than all the Rum or Spirits I
had given him; for he- was juft fainting'wkh T hirft.
'When his Father had drank, I call'd to him-to know
if there was any Water left; he faid, Yes; and I bad
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
Want of it as his Father; and I fent one of the Cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was repofipg himfelfuDon a green
Place, under the Shade of a. Tree, and whofe Limbs
were alfo very fiff, and very much fwell'd with the
rude Bandage he had been tied with: Whein I faw that
upon Fridays coming to him  with the Water, he fat
up and drank, and took the Bread, and began to eat, I
went to him, and gave him a Handful of Raifins; he
look'd up in mnv Facq with all the Tokens of Gratitude
and Thanktilnefs that Qould appear in any Countenance; but was fo w6ak;'notwithftanding he had to exerted himfelf in the Fight, thAt he; could not fand up
upon his Feets he tried to do it Otwo or three times,
but was really not able; his Ankles were Co fwell'd and
fo painful to him; fo I bad him fit fill, and caufed
Friday to rub his Ankles, and bathe themn with Rum, as
lIe had done his Fathqr's.
^ I obferv'd the~ ppporaffe&ionate Creature every two
Ninutes, or p-rha p^l es all the while he was here,<
tIr'd' hiS Hea4'aboit`, to fee if his Father wa 'in the
f~ipePlace aand PoAlure as 1hp left him fitting; and at
lIf1 he fquad he,was not to he feen; at which he ftarted up, and without fpeaking a Word, feww with that
Swiftnefs to him, that one could fcarce perceive his
e~t.to touch the Ground as he went: But when he
qame, he only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe
his Limbs; fo Frida caie back to me prefently, and
I then fpoke to the  niard to let Friday help him up if
lie could, and lead hi'm to the Boat, and then he thduld
nrry him t. our Dw!ling, where I would, take care of
imrn: But Frida, a lufly fIrong 'ellw, "tok kthe S.aniard quite up upon his Back, and carried him away to
the Boat, and fet him  down foftly upon the Side of'
xuel of the Canoe, with his Feet in the Infide of it,,. an4




(23'I )
arid then lifted him quite in, and fet him clofe to his
father, and prefently flepping out again, launch'd the
Boat off, and paddled it along the Shicre fitaer than [
could walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty hard too; fo
he brought them both fafe into our Creek; and leaving
them in the Boat, runs away to fetch the other Canoe:
As he pals'd me, I fpoke to him, and ask'd him,
whither he went? He told me, Go fetch mcte Boat; to
away he went, like the VW ind; for fure never Man or
Horfe run like him, and he had the other Canoe in
the Creek, almoft as (bon as I got to it by Land; fo he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new Guefis
out of the Boat, which he did; but they were neither
of them able to walk; fo that poor Friaay knew not
what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my Thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the Bank
while he came to me, I foon made a kind of Hand-Barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up
both together upon it between us: But when we got
them to the Out fide of our Wall, or Fortification, we
were at a worfe Lols than before; for it was impoffible
to get them over; and I was reoblv'd not to break it'
down: So I fet to Work again; and Friday and I, in
about two Hours Time, made a very handiome Tent,
cover'd with old Sails, and above that with Boughs of
Trees, being in the Space without our outward Fence,
and between thit and the Grove of young Wood whichi
I had plante4: And here we made them'two Beds of
fuch Things as I had, viz. of good Rice-Straw, withBlankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them on each Bed.
My fland was now peopled, and I thought my felf
very rich in Subjecs; and it was a, merry Refleaion/.
which I frequently made, How like a King I olopk'd
Firft of all, the whole Country was nly own meer
Property; fo that I had an undoubted Right of Domi
nion. 2dty, My People were perfeAly fubijeted: t
ws aboilute Lord and Lawgiver; they all ow'd theiy
Lives to me, and were ready to lay down their Lives;
if there bad been Occafion of it, for me: It was remarabe too, I had but three Subje&ts and they were of
three




( 232 )2
three different Religions, My Man Friday was a Pro;
teftant; his Father wasa Pagan     and a Cannibal; and
th.bSpaniad was aPapift: However, I allow'd Liberty ofConfcience throughout my Dominions: But this
is by the way.
As foon as I had fecur'd my two weak refcued Prifoners, and given them Shelter, and a Place to reft them
upon, I began to think of making tonle Provifion for
them: And the firft Thing I did, I order'd Friday to
take a yearling Goat, betwixt a Kid and a Goat, out ot'
my particular Flock, to be kill'd: Then I cut off the
hinder Quarter, and chopping it into finall Pieces, I
fet Friday to Work, to boiling and Hewing, and made
them a: very good Difh, I affure you, of Fleih and
Broth, having put rome Barley, and Rice alfo, into the
Broth; and as I cook'd it without Doors, ( for I made
no Fire within my inner Wall, fo I carried it- all into
the new Tent; and having feta Table there for them,
I fat down and eat my own Dinner alib with them,, and,
as wellas I could, chear'd them and encourag'd them;
Friday being my Interpreter, efpecially to his Father,
and, iideed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard fpoke
the Language of the Savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather fipped, I order'd'
Friday to take one of the Canoes, andgo and fetch our
Muskets and other Fire-Arms, which for wantof Time
we had left upon the Place of Battle; and the next
Day I order'd him to go and bury the dead Bodies.of
the Savages, which- lay open to the Sun, and would
prefently be offenfive; and I alfo order'd him to bury
the horrid Remains of their barbarous Feaft, which [
knew were pretty much, and which I could not think
of doing my felf; nay, I could not bear to fee them, if
I went that Way: All which he. puntually perform'd,
Tnd defac'd the very Appearance of the Savages being
there; fd that when I went again, I could fcarce know
where it was, otherwife than by the Corner of the
Wood pointing to the Place.
I then began to enter into a little Converfation with
my two new Subijes; and firft I fet Friday to enquire
of his Father, what he thought of the Efcape of the
$oawges in that Canoe, and whether we might expea a
*   ~,              '.etux
~~ReJ.iturn




( 233 )
Return of them with a Pewer too greafior us to refiff?'
His firt Opinion was, that the Savages in the Boat never conld live out the Storm  which blew that Night
they went off, but mufi of Neceflity be drown'd or
driven Soutbh t thofe other Shores, where they were as
fure to be devour'd as they were to be drowned it they
were caft away; but as to what they would do if they
came fafe on Shore, he faid he knew not; but it was
his Opinion that they were fo dreadfully frighted with
the manner of their being attack'd, the Noife and the
Fire, that he believ'd they would tell their People, they
were all kill'd by Thunder and Lightning, not by the
Hand of Man, and that the two which appear'd, (vii.)'
Friday and me, were two Heavenly Spirits or Furies
come down to deflroy them, and not Men with Weapons: This he faid he knew, becaufe he Heard them all
cry cut fo in their Language to one another; for it was
impoffible to them to conceive that a Man could dart
Fire, and fpeak Thunder, and kill at a Diftance, without litting up the Hand, as was done now: And this old
Savage was in the right; for, as I underfiood fince by
other hands, the Savages of that Part never attempted to
go over to the Ifland afterwards; they were fo terrified
with theAccounts given by thofe fourMen, (for it feems
they did efcape the Sea ) that they believ'd whoever
went to that enchanted Ifland, would be defroy'd with
Fire from the Gods.
This however I knew not, and therefore was under
continual Apprehenfions for a good while, and kept
always upon my Guard, me and all my Army; for-as
we were now four of us, I would have ventur'd upon a
hundred of them fairly in the open Field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more Canoes appearing, the Fear of their coming wore off, and I began to
take my former Thoughts of a Voyage to the Main into
Confideration, being likewife affur'd by Friday's Father, that I might depend upon good U fage from their
Nation on his Account, if I would go.
But my Thoughts were a little fu'pended, when I
had a ferious Difcourfe with the Spaniard, and when I
underflood that there were fixteen more of his Countryiten and Portugefe, who having been caf away, and
made




( z34 ).
made their Efcape to that fide, liv'd there at Peace indeed with the Savages, but were very lore put to it for
Neceffaries, and indeed for, Life: 1 ask'd- him all the
Particulars, of their Voyage, and found they were a
Spanilh Ship, kound from the Rio de l Plqta, to the Havan, being directed to leave their Loading there, which
was chiefly Hides and Silver, and to bring back what
European Goods they could. meet with there; that they
had five Portugefe Seamen on Board, whom they took
out of another Wreck; that five of their own Men were
drown'd when firfl the Ship was loft, and that thefle efcap'd thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and arriv'd almoft flarv'd on the Cannibal Coaft, where they expected
to have been devour'd every Moment.
He told me, they 'ad fome Arms with them, but they,
were perfe&ly ufeleis, for that they had neither Pow.
der or Ball, the Wafhiig of the Sea having fpoil'd all
their Powder, but a little, which they ul'ed at their firlt
Landing to provide themfelves fome Food.
I ask'd him what he thought would become of them
there, and.if they had form'd no Defign of making any
Efiape: He faid, They had many Confultations about
it,' but that having neither Vefel, nor Tools to build
one, or Provifions of any Kin,.their Coplifels alwayis
ended int Tears and Defpair  '.
I ask'd him how he thought they would receive a
Propofal from me, which might tend towards an Efcape:
And whether, if they were all here, it might not be
done? I told him with Freedom, I fear'd moftly their
Treachery and ill- Ulage of me, if I put mj ife in their
Hands; for that Gratitude was no inherent Virtue in
the Nature of Man; nor did Mlen ailw;as fquare trheir
Dealings by the Obligations they had receiv.'d fo much
as they did by the Advantages they expeaed: I told;
him, it would be very hard, that I hould be the In,
ftrument of their Deliverance, and that they filould afterwards make me their Prifoner in New-Spain, where,
an Englihman was certain to be made a Sacrifice, what
Neceffity, or what Accident fbever, brought.himthither: And thatI had rather. be deliver'djlp to the Savages, and: be-devour'd alive, tban.fall intOathe mer<ilefs Clawsofthe Priets,= and be carry'd into!thse! qi:
ition.




( 235    )
Ftion. I added, That otherwife I was perfwaded, if
they were all here, we might, with fo many Hands,
build a Bark large enough to carry us all away, either to
the Brafils Southward, or to the Iflands or Spanijh Coatt
Northward: But that if in Requital they Should, when
I had put Weapons into their Hands, carry me by Force
amlong their own People, I might be ill uled formy
Kindnefs to them, and make my Cafe worfe than it was
before.
He anfwver'd with a great deal of Candor and Ingenuity, That their Condition was fo miferable, and they
were fo fenfible of it, that he believed they would abhor
the Thought of ufing any Man unkindly that ihould
contribute to their Deliverance; and that, if I pleafed,
he would go to them with the old Man, and difcourfe
with them about it, and return again, and bring me
their Anlwer: That he would make Conditions withl
them upon their folemn Oath, That they would be abfolutely under my Leading, as their Commander and
Captain; and that they ihould fwear upon the Holy
Sacrameunts and Gofpel, to be true to me and to go to
fuch Chriftian Country as I fhould agree to, aned
no other; and to bedireded Iwholly and abfolutely by
my Orders, till they were landed fafely in fuch Country
as I intended; and that he would bring a Contrat from
them under their Hands for that Purpofe.
Then he told me, he would firfi fwear to me himfelf
That he would never flir from me as long as he liv'd,
till I gave him Orders; and that he would take my
Side to the laft Drop of his Blood, if there ihould happen the leaft Breach of Faith among his Countrymen.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honeft
Men, and they were under the greateft Diftrefs imaginable, having neither Weapons or Cloths, nor any Food,
but at the Mercy and Difcretion of the Savages; out of
all Hopes of ever returning to their own Country; and
that he was fure, if I would undertake their Relief, they
wou'd live and die by me.
Upon the1e Affurances, I refolv'd to venture to relieve them, it poflible, and to fend the old Savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: But when he had
gotten all Things in a Readinefs to go, the Spaniard himfelf




C   3,6 )
flftfrtred an Objecion, which had fo much Prudence
in it on one Hand, and fb much Sincerity on the other
Hand,, that I could not but be very well fatisfy'd in it;
and, by his Advice, put off the Deliverance of his Conlrades for at leaft half a Year. The Cafe was thus.
He had been with us now about a MIonth; during
which. Time I had let him lee in what Manner I had
provided, with the Altitfance of Providence, for my
Support; and he taw evidently what flock of Corn and
Rice I had laid up; which, as it was more than iilflicient for my felt, bo it was not fufficient, at leafi without good Husbandry, for my Family, now it was encreas'd to Number four: But much lefs would it be futf
ficient, if his Countryman, who were, as he laid, fourteen flill alive, fliould come over; and leaft of all would
it he fufficient to vic6ual our Veflel, if we fliould build
one, for a Voyage to any of the Chrifian Colonies of
America. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advilable, to let him and the two other dig and cultivate rome more Land, as much as I could pare Seed to
Tow; and that we ihculd wait another Harveft, that
we might have a Supply of Corn for his Country-men
when they ihould conae; for Want might be a Temptation to theni to difagree, or not to think themfelves de.
liver'd, otherwife than out of one Difficulty into another: You know, fays he, the Children of Ijrael, though
they rejoic'd at firfi at their being deliver'd out of Egypt,
yet vebeU'd even againft God himfelf that deliver'd
them, when they came to want Bread in the Wildernels.
His Caution was fo feafonable, and his Advice fo good,
that I could not but be very well pleas'd with this Propafal, as well as I was fatisfy'd with his.Fidelity; So
we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden
Tools we were furnifhbd with permitted; and in about
a Month's Time, by the End of which it was Seed-time,
we had gotten as nmuch Land cur'd and trimm'd up,. as
we fbo'd 22 Bufhels of Barley on, and I6 Jarrs ofRice,
which was, in ihort, all the Seed we had to fpare; nor
indeed did we leave our felves Barley fufficient for our
owvn Food, fbr the fix Months that we had to expe& our
Chop, thal is-to. ay, reckoning from' the Time we tit
our




(237    )
tcur Seed afide for fowing; for it is not to be fuppos'd ft
is iix Months in the Ground in the Country.
Having now Society enough, and our Number being
fufficientto put us out of Fear of the Savages, if they
had come, unlefs their Number had been very great,
we went freely all over the Ifland, where-ever we found
Occafion; and as here we had our Efcape or Delivexance upon our Thoughts, it was inpoflible, at leaft for
me, to have the Means of it out of mine; to this Purpole, 1 mark'd out teveral Trees, which I thought fit
for our Work, and I fet Friday and his Father to cutting
them down; and then I caus'd the Spaniard, to whom I
imparted ny Thought on that Affair, to overfee and direCt their VVork:  ihew'd them with what indefatigable Pains I had hew'd a large Tree into tingle Planks,
andI caus'd them to do the like, till they had made about a Dozen large Planks of good Oak, near two Foot
broad, 35 Foot long, and from two Inches to four Inches thick: what prodigious Labour it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the fame Time I contriv'd to encreafe my little
Flock of tame Goats as much as I could; and to this Purpofe I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one Day,
and my felf, with Friday, the next Day, for we took
our turns: And by this Means we got about 20 young
Kids to breed up with the reft; for when-ever we fhot
the Dam, we fav'd the Kids, and added them to our
Flock: But above all, the Seafon for curing the Grapes
coming on, I caus'd iun:h a prodigious Qitantitv to be
hung up in the Sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the Raifins of the Sun are cured, we could
have fill'd 60 or So Barrels; and thefe, with our Bread,
was a great Part of our Food, and very good Living too,
I affure you; for it is an exceeding nourifhing Food.
It was now Harveft, and our Crop in good Order;
it was not the moft plentiful Encreafe I had feen in the
Ifland, but however it was enough to anfwer our End;
for from our 22 Buihels of Barley; we brought in and
threfhed out above 220 Buihels, and the like in Propbrtion of the Rice, which was Store enough for our Food
to the next Harvefl, tho' all the 16 Spaniards had been
oa Shore with me; or if we had been ready for a Voyage,




( 238 ) I


ge, it.woulcld ery plentifully have vifuall'd our Slhp,
to have carry'd us to any Part of the World, that is to,fay, of America. When we had thus hGus'd and fecur'd
'.our Magazine of Corn, we fell to Work to make more
Wicker-Work, v~. Great Baskets in which we kept
it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this Part, and often blam'd me that I did not make
fome Things for Defence,of this Kind of Work; but I
faw no Need of it: And now having a full Supply of
Food for all the Guefsexpe&ed, 1 gave the the Spaxiard Leave to go over to theiMain,to fee what he could
do with thofe he had left behind him there: I gave
him a tlri& Charge in Writing, not to bring any Man
with him, who would not firit fwear in the Vrefence of
himfelf and of the old Savage,That he would no Way injure, fight with, or attack the Perfon he fhould find in
the fland, who was oi kind to fend for them in Order
to their Deliverance; but that they would ftand by-and
defend him againf all ifch Attemps, and where-ever
they went, would be entirely under, and fubj&ted t6 his
Command; and that thisfhould be put in Vv riting, and
fign'd with their Hands: How we were to have this
done, when I knew they had neither Pen or Ink, that,
indeed, was a Qiueftion which we never ask'd.
Under thefe lnitru&ions, the Spaniard, and the old
Savage (the Father of Friday) went away in one of the
Canoes, which they might be laid to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as Prilbners to be devour'd by the Savages.
I gave each of them a Musket with a Firelock on it
and about eight Charges of Powder and Ball, charging thenm to be very good Husbands of both, -and not to
ufe either of them but upon urgent Occafion.
This was a cheariul Work, being the firft Meafures
ufed by me in View of my Deliverance for now 271
Years and fome Days: I gave them Provifions of Bread,
and of dryd Gra ps, fuificient for thenifelves for many:Days, andgfuflicient for all their Country-men for about
eight Days time; and' wilhing them a good Voyage, I
fee them goi agreeing with them about a Signal they
&tould hang outat. their Return by which I Thuuld kno\v
them again, when they came back, at afDiitance,:before
t hey came on Shore.                          They




( 239 )
They went away with a fair Gale on the]Day.that
the Moon was at Full;:by my Account in the MoRith
of October; but as for an exa&t Reckoning of Days, a:
ter I had once loft it, I could never recover it again;
nor had I kept even the Number of Years bo puntually; as to be lure that I was right, tho', as it prov'd,
when I afterwards examin'd my Account, I found I had
kept a true Reckoning of Years.
It was no lefs than eight Days I had waited for them,
when a ftrange and untorefeen Accident interven'd, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been: heard of in Hiftory. I was fail afleep in my Hutch one Morning,
when my Man Friday came running in to me, and call'd
aloud, iiafler, Mafter, they are come, they are come.
I jump'd up, and, regardlefs of Danger, I went out
as blon as I could get my Clothes on, thro' my little
Grove, which ( by the Way ) was by this Time grown
to be a very thick Wood: I fay, regardlels of Danger,
I went without my Arms, which was not my Cufton
to do; but I was furpriz'd, when turning my Eyes to
the Sea, I prelently taw a Boat at about a League and
Half's Diftance, tanding in for the Shore, with a
Sbhulderf 4Mtdttcn-Sail, as they call it, and the \ ind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in: Al'o I obferv'd
prelently, that they did not come from that Side which
the Shore lay on, but firom the Southermofi End of the
Ifland - Upon this I call'd Friday in, and bid him lye
cloft, for thefe were not the Feople we look'd for, and
that we might not know ytt whether they were Friends
or Enemies.
In the next-Place, I went in to fetclh n'yPerfpe&iveGlafs, to fee-what I could make of thlem; and having
taken the Ladder out, I climb'd up to the Top of the
Hill, as I ufed to do when I was apprehenfive of any
Thing, and to take my View the plainer withoiut being' di-wi'      -        - '.  i.  i~....:.
' Ilhad icac fet my Foot on the Hill, when nmy i ye
plainly:dii'coer'i a ShIip lyirng at a Anchor, at taut
tWo Lags-anhd.an 1laf's5 Ditinf;ce frbm me,, E,
t inot- above ai Leguea andn half rim th  Shor.h: y
my OtBfervation i't appear'd pldAy to he an EpiJh
Sip, 'ai the Boattippear'd to betnEn-nglb LobngBJoat.




(240)
I cannot exprers the Confufion I was in, tho' the:Joy
of feeing a Ship, and one whom I had Reafon to believe
was Mann'd by my own Country-men, and confequently Friends, was fucla as I cannot defcribe; but yet I
had fome becret Doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
ornm whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
Guard: In the firft Place, it occur'd to me, to Conifaer what Bufinefs an Eng ijh Ship could have in that
Part of the World, fince it was not the Way to, or
from any Part of the World, where the EngliJh had any
Traffick; and I knew there had been no Storms to drive
them in there, as in Diftrefs; and that if they were
'Egzlijh really, it was mofl probable that they were here
upon no good Defign; and that I had better continue
as I was, than fall into the Hands of Thieves and Mur-:therers.
Let no Man defpife the fecret Hints and Notices of
Danger, which fometimes are given him when he may
think there is no Pouflbility of its being real: That
fuch Hints and Notices are given us, I believe few that
have made any Obfervations of Things can deny; that
they are certain Difcoveries of an invifible World, and
a Converfe of Spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the
Tendency of them feems to be to warn us of Danger,
why fhould we not fuppofe they are from fome friendly Agent, ( whether fupreme, or inferior and fuburdinate, is not the Queftion) and that they are given for
our Good?
The prefent Quefion abundantly confirms me in the
Juflice of this Reafoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this ftcret Admonition, come it from whence
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far
worfe Condition than before, as you will fee prefently.
I had not kept my felf long in this Pofture, but I
law the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they look'd for
a Creek to thruft in at for the Convenience of Landing; however, as they did not come quite far enough,
they did not fee the little Inlet where I formerly landed
my Rafts; but run their Boat on Shore upon the Beach,
at about half a Mile from ine, Which was very happy
for me; for otherwife they would have landed jufi, as
I may fay, at my Door, and would foon have beaten
me




I
p. I                                                                             EN
labMIN


__,x
I
-    A=-c4t*- -  -


I'
/
-I


7z=

11 -
I
-z-_I
-



-                z --- -
- Z.7t- -


A,.




( 241)
ine out of my Caflle, and, perhaps, have plunder'd me.
of all' had.
When they were on Shore; I was fully fitisfied they
were Engiijb Men, at leait moft of theim; one or twvo I
thought were DiItch, but it did not prove fo: There
were in all eleven Men, whereof three of theml I found
were unarm'd, and (as I thought) bound, and when
the firil tour'or five ot them were jump'd on Shore, they
took thofe three out of the Boat as Prilfners: One of
the three I. could perceive uiing the moil paitioniate Geftures of Entreaty, Affiaiion. and Defpair, even to a
kind of Extravagance; the other two, 1 could perceive,
lifted up their Hands ibmetinies, and appear'd concern"d
indeed, hut not to iuch a Degree as the firit.
I was perfetl)y confounded at the Sight, and knew
not what the Meaning of,it fhould -be: friday c iT'd out
4. me in Englijh, as well as he could, 0 MaJfisr! Tr ee
\glii Manzs eat Prifoner as we1l Savage eMans: Why,
Ii4, Fridy, do you think they are a g[ng to eat them
a Tes, jays Friday,, Thf h -I eat tbm: No, no,
i      y,  I amy afraid they will niurther them, ini you may be fure they will not eat them.
fis while I had no Thouglht of what the Matter
i /was, but flood trPbbling with the Horror of the
it, expeting every M6ment when the three Prifofould be kill'd; nay, once I Ifaw one of the Vil..  iftup his Arm with a,reat Cutlafh, (as the Seaallit) or Sword, to ftyike one of the poor Men;
anr  I expeaed to fee him fall every  oment, at wbiicl
al he Blood in my Body feem'd to run chill in fiy
w    I'd heartily now for my Spanlard, and the Sabat was gone with him; or that I had any Way
[  come undifcover'd within Shot of them, that f
tT[ ave refcu'd the three Men; for I faw no Fire-.y had among them, but it fell out to my Min
I had, obfervd the outrageous   t ge of the three
iby the infolent Seamen, I obferv'idthe Ielloows
[ iering about the Land, is if they wanted to fee
i;ry: I oberv'd alfo that:the three other Mea.a Lerty to go where they ple'd; but thle;tat  wn
1                                      e M     all




( 242 )     I:allthree upon the ground very penfive, and look'd 1le.3Men in Deipair.
This put me in Mind of the firl Time when I came
on Shore. and began to look about me,; how I gave my
lelfover for lolf, now widly I;look'd round me, what.dreadfil Apprehenfions I had, and how I lodg'd in the
Tree all Night for fiar of being devour'd by wild Beaffs.
As I knew nothing that Night of the Supply I was to;receive bythe providential Driving of the Ship nearer
the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by which I have
fince been fo long noufrih'd and fupported; fo thefe
~three poor defolate Men knew nothing how certain of:Deliverance and Supply they were, how near it was to:them, and how efe&ually and really they were in'a Con-.dition of Safety, at the fame Time that they thought
Athemfelves loft, and their Cafe defperate.
So little do we fee before us in the World, and fo
tnuch Reafon have we to depend chearfully upon the
great Maker of the World, that he does not leave his
2Creatures fo abfolutely deiHtute, but that in the worIt
Circumfl-mces othey have always fomething to be.thank-;ull for,.and fometimes are nearer their Deliverance than:they imagine; nay, are even brought to their Deliverance by the Means by which they feem to be brought ft.their Deftrution.
It wasjuft at the Top of High. water when thefe People came on Shore, and while partly they flood parlying
wvith.the Prifoners they brought, and partly while they
rambled.about to fee what kind of Place they were in,.they had carlefsly lfald till the Tide was fpent, and the
VWater was ebb'd confiderably away, leaving their Boat,a-ground.
They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much Brandy, fell
a fleep; iowevt, o oe f them waking fobner than the
aither, and:.finlTig the Botitoo faif a-ground for him to.Air it, hallow'dfor the refl who were ftraggling about,
Mpon which ti4 al fan came to the Boat; but it was
atall their Strngtih to launch her, the Boat being ve-;ryheavy, aidd the Shore:n that fide being a foft oozy
nd, aanlmotlike a   (ick-S-an&




(  243 )
In this Condition, like true Seamen, wo alre, per4laps, the leaft of all Mankind given to Fcre-thought,
they gave it over, and away they itroll'd about the
Country again; and I hcard one of them fly aloud to
another; (calling theni off from the Boat) Why let her
alone, Jack, can't ye, fiJe'1 float next Tide; by whi:ll I
was fully confirm'd in the main Enquiry, of what
4Countrymen they were?
All this while I kept my felf very clofe, not once daring to llir out of my Caftle, any farther than to my
Place of Obtervation, near the Top of the Hill; and
very glad I was, to think how well k was fortify'd -
I knew it was no lefs than ten Hours before the Boat
could be on float again, and by that Time it would be
dark, and I might be at more Liberty to fee their Motions, and to hear their Difcourfe, if they had any.
In the mean Time I fitted my felt up tbr a Battle,- as
before; tho' with more Caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of Enemy than I had at firft: I order'd F'i.ay al'o, whom I had made an excellent Markfman with his Gun, to load himtelfwith Arms: I took
my felf two Fowling-Pieces, and I gave him three MuI.
kets: My Figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my
formidable Goat-skin Coat on, with -the great Cap I
mentioned, a naked Sword, two Piftols in my Belt, and
a Gun upon each Shoulder.
It was my Defign, as I faid above, not to have made
anyAttempt 'till it was dark: But about two aClock, being the Heat of the Day, I found that in fliort they were
all gone ftraggling into theWoods, and, as I thought were
all laid down to aeep: The three potw diftreffed Men,:too anxious for their Condition to get any Sleep, were,
however, fet down under the Shelter of a great free, at
about a quarter of a Mile from me, and, as I thought,,out of Sight of any of the reft.
Upon this I refolv'd to difcover tiy felfto them, and
learn fomething of their Condition: Immedately I
*anarch'd in the Figure above, my Man Friday-at a good.
'Ditlance behind me, as formidable far his Arms, as I,
ibut not making qite fo Raring a Spetrle-1le Figure as
1 cIxn




2( 244   )
-I ca-meas near them undifcover'd as I could, and then.before any ot them faw me, I call'd aloud to them in
Spanijh, W/hat are ye Gentlemen?
They tarted up at the Noife, but were ten times,more confounded when they law me, and the uncouth
Figure that I made: They made no Aniwer at all,
but x thought I perceiv'd them jufk going to fly from
me, when I fpoke to them in EngliJh: Gentlemen, laid
I, do not be.furpriz'd at me; perhaps you may have
a Friend near you, when you did not expeCt it:  He
nuft be fent dire&ly from Heaven then, jaid one cf them
very gravely to me, and pulling tff his Hat at tbe Jame
Time, tir our Ccnditicn is paJi the Help of Man.  All
Help is from Heaven, Sir, Laid I; But can you put
a Stranger in the Way how to help you, for you ieem
to me, to be in iblme great Dilrefs? I faw you when
you landed, and when you feem'd to make Application
to the Brutesthat came with you, I law one of them
liit up his Sword to kill you.
The poor Man, with Tears running down his Face,
and trembling, looking like one afionifh'd, return'd,.3m I taliing to God, cr Man! Is it a real Man, or an
Angel! Be in no tear about that, Sir, faid I, if God
had tent an Angel to relieve you, he would have come
-better cloth'd, and arm'd after another Manner than
you fee me in; pray lay afide your Fears, I am a Man,
an Engliflwman, and diipos'd to aftift you, you fee; I

your Cafe?
Our Cafe, faid he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our Murtherers are fo near; but, in hlort, Sir, I was
Commander of that Ship, my Men have mutiny'd againft me, they have been hardly prevail'd on not to
xnurther me, and at laft have let me on Shore in this
edefolate Place, with -thefe two Men with me, one my
Mate, the other a Paffenger, where we expe&ed to
periih, believing the Place to be uninhabited, and know
rot yet what to think of it.
Where are.tboe Brutes, your Enemies, faid I,.do
you know. where they are gone? There they ie,:Sir,,     aid he, pointing to a Thicket.of Trees, my Heart tremUe




(245 )
eks for fear they have feen us, and beardycufpeak; if they
have, taey will certainly murder us all.
Have they any Fire.Arms, laid I?  He anfwer'd,,
they had only two Fieces, and one which they left in
the Boat. Well then, laid I, leave the reft to me; 1
fee they are all afleep, it' is an eafy thing to kill them
all; but ihall we rather take thenm Prifoners? He told.
me there were two defperate Villains among them, that
it was fcarce late to fliew any Mercy to; but if they
were fecur'd, he believ'd all the reft would return to,
their Duty: I asked him, which they were? Hle tol&d
me, he could not at that Diflance defzribe them; but,
he would obey my Orders in any thing I would direct:
Well, fays I, let us retreat out of their View or Hearing, left they awake, and we will refolve farther; fi>
they willingly went back with me, till the Woods cover'd us from them.
Look you, Sir, laid I, if I venture upon your Deliverance, are you willing to make two Conditions with
me; lie anticipated my Propofals, by telling me, that
both he and the Ship, if recover'd, fiould be wholly
direled and commanded by me in every thing; and if
the Ship was not recover'd, he would live and die with
me in what Part of the World foever I would fend
him; and the two other Men faid the fame.
Wtell, fays I, rmy Conditions are but two. I. TLat
while you tay on this fland with me, you will not pretend to any Authority here; and if I put Arms into.
your Hands, you will upon all Occafions give them up
to me, and do no Prejudice to me or mine, upon this
Ifland, and in the mean time be govern'd by my
Orders.
2. That if the Ship is, or may be recover'd, you will
carry me and my Man to England Paffage-free.
He gave me all the Ajfurances that the Invention
and Faith of Man could devife, that he would comply
with thefe modt realbnable Demandsand befides would
owe his Life to me, and acknowledge it upon all Occafions as long as he liv'd.
Well then, faid I, here are three Muskets for you,
with Powder and Bal;l tell me next what you think is
proper to be done: He fhew'd all the Teftimony of hi.
M                   Grati



( 246 )..
Gratitude that he was able; but olfer'd to be wholly
guided by me,: I told him, 1 thought it was hard venturing any ~Thing, but the b'ftl Method I could think
of, was to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if
any was not kill'd at the firt Volley, and oftered to
iubmit, we might lave them, and fo put it wholly upon.
God's Providence to direc the Shot.
He filid very modeftlly, That he was loth to kill
them, if he could help it; but that thofe two were incorrigible Villains, and had been the Authors of all the:Mtutiny in the ship, and if they efcaped, we fhould be
undone flill; for they would go on Board, and bring
the whole Ship's Company, and deftroy us all: Well
then, silid I, Xee effty leit imates n  d-dvice; for it is tbt
nly VWayj t fjave our Lives: However, feeing him hill
cautious of fhedding Blood, I told him they Ihould go
themfelves, and nanage as they found convenient.
In the Middle of this Dilcourfe we heard ibme of them.
iawake, and obon after we faw two of' thenm on their
Feet: I ask'd him, it either of' them were the Men
N, omnl he had faid were the Heads of the Mutiny? Heflid, A';: Vvell then, faid I, you may let them efcape,
and Providence ftems to have waken'd them on Purpofe to fave themtelves: Now, fays I, if the ref efcapayou, it is your Fault.
Animated with this, he took the Musket I had given
him in his Hand, and a Pillol in his Belt, and his 'two
Comrades with him, with each Man a Piece in his.
Hand: The two AMen, who were with him going firft,
made Tome Noife, at which one of the Seamen, who
was awake, turn'd about, and feeing them coming,
cry'd out to the reft, but it was too late then, for the
Moment he cry'd out, they fir'd, I mean the two Men,
the Captain wifely referving his own Piece: They had
fo well aim'd their Shot at the Men they knew, that
one of them was kill'd on the Spot, and the other very
ruch wounded; but not being dead, he ftarted up
upon his Feet, and call'd eagerly for Help to the other;
but the Captain flepping to him, told him, 'twas too
ltte to cry tor Help, he ihould call upon God to forgive
his Villainy, and with that Word knock'd him down
hith the Stok of his Musket fo that he never fpokt
more



( 247) ).'more: There were three more in the Company, andc
one of them was allb flightly wounded: By this time I
was come; and when they law their Danger, and that
it was in vain to relift, they begg'd for Mercy: 'Ihe
Captain told them, he would fpa'-e their Lives, if they
would give him any Aflurance of their Abhorrence of
the Treachery they had been guilty of; and would fwear
to be faithful to him in recovering the Ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Yamaica, from whence
they came - ' hey gave him ail the Proteflations ot their'
Sincerity that could be delir'd, and he was willing to
belieVe them, and fpare their Lives, which I was not
againit; only I oblig'd him to keep them bound Handct
and Foot while they were upon tlhe Ifland.
While this was doing, I itct lFiday with the Captain's Mate to the Boat, with Orders to fecure her, and
bring, away the Oars and Sail, which they did; and"by-and-by, three flragling Men that ivere ( happily for
them ) parted from the roil, came back upon hearing
the Guns fir'd, ad feeing thrti  Captain, who before
was their Prifoner, now their Conqueror, they fubmitted to be bound alfo, and fo our Vi<ory was corn
pleat.
It now remain'd, that the Captain and I fhould en*
quir into one another's Circunmfances: I began firft,
and told him my whole Hiftory, which he heard with
an Attention even to Amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful Manner of my being furnifh'd with Pro,
vifions and Ammunition; and indeed, as ny Story is
a whole Colle&ion of Wonders, it affeted him deeply;
but when he refle&ted from thence upon himfelf, and
how I feem'd to have been preferv'd there on purpofe
to fave his Life, the Tears ran down his Face, and he
could not fpeak a Word more.
After this Communication was at an End, I carry'd
him and his two Men into my Apartment, leading them
in juf where I came out, vit. at the Top of the Houfg,
where I refrefh'd them with fuch Provifions as I had,
and few'd them all the Contrivances I had made, dur,
mng my, ong, long, inhabiting that Place.
All I ihew'd them, all I faid to thenm, was perfetl
amazing  but above all the Captain admir'd my For*
M  4                 tifica



( 248 )    >
tification, and how perfetly I had conceal'd my Retreat with a Grove of Trees, which having been now
planted near twenty Years, and the Trees growing
much ialfer than in EIggand, was become a little Wood,
and b thick, that it was unpafiable in any Part of it;
but at that one Side, where I had rekerv'd my little
winding PflTage into it: This, I told him, was my Caffle
and my Reficience; but that I had a Seat in the Count-y, as molt Princes have, whither I could retreat upon
Occafion, and I would fhew him that too another Time;
bat at prefent our Buiinefs was to confider, how to recover the Ship: He agreed with me as to that; but
told me, he was perftelly at a Lofs what Meafures to
take  for that there were flill fix and twenty Hands on
Board, who having enter'd into a curfed Confpiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their Lives to the Law,
would be harden'd in it now by Defperation; and would
carry it on, knowing that if they were reduc'd, they
fhculd be brought to the Gallows as foon as they came
to Enqland?, or to any of the Eglijbi Colonies; and that
thtrefole there would be no attacking them with ft
imhall a Number as we were.
I muted for fome time upon what he had faid, and
found it was a very:rational Conclufio, and that
therefore fomething was to be refolved on very fpeedily,
as well to draw the Men on Board into fome Snare for
their Surprize, as to prevent their Landing upon us,
and deflroying us: Upon this it prefently occur'd to
me, that in a little while, the Ship's Crew wondering
what was become of their Comrades, and of the Boat,
would certainly come on Shore in their other Boat, to
fee for them, and that then perhaps they might come
arm'd, and be too ltrong for ts: This he allow'd was
rational.
Upon this I told him, the firft Thing we had to do,
was to flave -the Boat, which lay upon the Beach, fo
that they might not carry her off; and taking every
thing out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be fit
to fwim; accordingly we went on Board, took the Arms
which were left on Board, out ofher, and wjlaterei
etif we found there, which was a Bottle of Brandy, and
another of Runi a few;Bisket Cakes, a Horni of Pow*
*:                    der,




( 27 )
fays Rohinfon; fo he asked the Captain, and the Captain him{elf then calls out, You Smit/b, you know my
Voice, if you lay down your Arms immediately, and
fiubmit, you fhall have your Lives, all but Will. Atkins.
Upon this, Will. Atkins cry'd out, For God's fake,
Captain, give me Quarter, What have I done? They have
been all as bad as 1; which by the Way was not true
neither; for it feems this Will. Atkins was the firfl Man
that laid hold of the Captain, when they firft mutiny'd,
and uied him barbaroufly, in tying his Hands, and giving him injurious Language: However, the Captain
told him he muft lay down his Arms at Difcretion,
an4oruft to the Governour's Mercy, by which he meant
me; for they all call'd me Governour.
In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and begged their Lives; and I fent the Man that had parley'd
with then,, and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great Army of 50 Men, which particularly
with thofe three, were all but eight, came up and feiz'd
upon them all, and upon their Boat, only that I kept
my felf and one more out of Sight, for Reafons of State.
Our next Work was to repair the Boat, and to think
of feizing the Ship; and as~ for the Captain, now he had
Leifuire to parley with them, he expoftulate&w.ith them
upon the Villany of their Practices with him, and at
length, upon the farther Wickednefs of their Defign;
and how certainly it mulf bring them to Mifery andi
Diftrefs in the End, and perhaps to the Gallows.
They all appear'd very penitent, and begg'd hard
for their Lives: As for that, he told them they were,
none of his Prifoners, but the Commander's of the
Ifland; that they thought they had fet him on Shore iw
a barren uninhabited Ifland, but it had pleas'd God fo
to direa them, that the I4and was inhabited, and that
the Governour was an Englijh Man; that he might
hang them all there, if lie pleas'd; but as he had given
them all Quarter, he fuppos'd he would fend them to
England, to be dealt with there, as Juflice requir'd, except Atkihs, who he was commanded by the Governour
to advifeto prepare for Death; for that. he would be
lang'd ia the Mohning... *             Though




'Though this was all a Fiffion of his own, yet it hacf

Captain to intercede with the Governour for his Life,,
and all the reft begg~d of him. for- Cod's~ fake,, ehat they,
miight not be fent to England.
It now occurr'd to rne, that the Time of our Deliverance was' come, and that. it wvould be a mofa eafI
Thing to bring there Fellowsin, to be hearty in getting
Pofifelion of the Th~Np~; fo - ~" retir'd in the Dark f~oin,
them, that they miight not Ifee what Kind of a G13ovlernour they had, and call'd the Captain, to me; when I
call'd, as at a good Diftanie, one of the Mlen was or-,drA' -to fpe-ik again, and fay to the- Captain,_Captain,
the GCommander ca/is fcr ycju;- and prefently the Cabginreply'd, Tell bis Excellency, I am, jufl a coming: This
mnore perfe&ly amus'd them; and they all believ'd, that
the Commiander- was juft by with his. fifty Men.
Upon the Captain's coming to me, I' told him miy
Proje, for feizing, the Ship, which he lik'd of wonderfully well, and refolv'd to put it in Execution the next
Morniing.
But in Order to execute it with more Art, and to be
fecare:of Succefs, I told him we muat divide the Pri1loners,. and that he fliould go and take Atkins and two~
EXore of the worfa of them, "andi Ienc them pimion'd, toa
the Cave where thre others lay: This. Was coHMmitted to*'ridaky andi the two Men who came on Shore with the,
Captain.
They -convey'd. them to-the Cave, as to a Prifoun;
and it was, indeed, a difimtl Place,- ef-pecially to Men
wn their Condition.e
The other I orderkic to, m y. Bower, as I -call'd it, oF'
which I have given a, full Dflefription; aw rAas it was.
fenc'd in, and they. pinion~d, thePlace wasfecure enough,
confidering they were u-Pon their Behaviour.
To thefe in the Morning I fent the Captain, who
was to enter into a Parley with them in a W ord, to y
them, and -tell me, whether he thought they, m**i
be trufte-4 cor no, to ~go on Board and futrprize the $*p:
He-talk'dl to them of the Injutry done- himn, of the C6nu.~
ditOnthey werebrought to -~ and. that tho' the Gayervour had given thenitQ~uarter for their Lic  as, to;' ther
prei~n#




( 259 )
lpefent Action, yet that if they were fent to Englan^?,
they would all be hang'd in Chains, to be fure; bur
that itthey would join. in fuch an Attempt, as to re..
cover the Ship, he would have the Governour's Engagement for their Pardon.
Any one may guews how readily fich a Propofal wouldc
be accepted by Men in their Condition; they fell down
on their Knees to the Captain, and promired with the
deepeil Imprecations, that they would be faithful to
him to the laft Drop, and that they fliould owe their
Lives to him, and would go with him all over the
World; that they would own him for a Father to them,
as long as they liv'd.
Well. fays the Captain, I muftt go and tell the Go.
vernour what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring,
him to content to it: So he brought me an Account of
the Temper he found them in; and that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very fcure, I told hium
he thould go back again, and chuie out five of them, and.
tell them, they tfould fee that he did not want Men -
but he would take out thofe five to be his Affiltants,
and that the Governour would keep the other two, and
the three that were fent Prifoners.to the CafUe (myCave)
asHoftages, for the Fidelity of thofe five; and thatif
they prov'd unfaithful in the Execution, the five Hof;
tages fhould be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore..
'1 his look'd fevere, and convinc'd them that the Go,
vernour was in Earnefk; however, they had no Way
left them Iut to accept it; and it was now the Bufinefs
of the Prifuners, as much as of the Captain, to perfwade the other five to do their Duty.
Our Strength was now thus order'd for the Expedition. i. The Captain, his Mate, and Pa ffnger. 2,s
Then the two Prilbners. of the firft Gang, to whom,
having their Chara&ers from the Captain' I had given.
their Liberty, and trulted them with Arms. 3. The
other two, whom I had kept till now in my Bower
pinion'd, but, upon the Captain's Motion, had now
releascd. 4. Thefe five releas'd at laft; fo that they
were twelve in all, befides five we kept Prifoners in the
Caxe for Hoftawes.
'                       i




( 260 )
ask'd the Captain, If he was willing to venture
with thefe Hands on board the Ship? For, as for me
and may Man Friday, I did not think it was proper for
us to flti, having feven Men left behind; and it was
Employment enough for us to keep them afunder, and
fupply them with ViEtuals.
As to the five in the Cave, I refolv'd to keep them
faft; but Friday weht twice- a Day to them, to ftup
ply them  with Neceffaries; and I made the other two
carry Provifions to a certain Diftance, where friday
was to take it.
When I lhew'd my felF to the two Hoflages, it was
with the Captain, who told them, I was the Perfon
the Governour had;rder'd to look after them, and that
it was the Governour's Pleafure they fhould not tir any
where but by my Dire6tion; that if they did, they
fhould be fetch'd into the Cafile, and be laid in Irons;
fo that as we never utffer'd them to fee me as Governour, fo I now appear'd as another Perfon, and fpoke of
the Governour, the Garribon, the Caftle, and the like,
upon all Occafions.
The Captain now had no Difficulty before him, but
to furnilh his two Boats, ftop the Breach of one, and
Man them; He made his Paffenger Captain of one,
with four other: Men; and himfelft and his Mate, and
five more, went in the other: And they contriv'd their
Bufinefs very well; for they came up to the Ship about
Midnight: As foon as they came within Call of the
Ship, he made Rvbinfrn hale them, and tell them he had
brought ol the Men and the Boat, but that it was a
long Time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a Chat, till they came to the'Ship's
Side; When the Captain and the Mate, entering firft
with.their Arms; immediately knock'd down the Second Mate and Carpenter with the But-end of their
Muskets, being very faithfully feconded by their Men
they fecur'd all the reft that were upon the Main and
Quarter-Decks, and began to faflen the Hatches to keep
them down who were below, when the other Boat and
their Men entering at the Fore-ihains, fecur'd the
Fore-Caftle of te Ship, -ad the Skuttle which went
~   *:.: -:1^ -;.' -  A w ^ d wa




ML"".,


i.1I


I
I
III,t

/w  /


//-) ) )
II




I




(26      )
down 'into the Cook-Room, making three Men they
found there Prifoners.
When this was done, and all fafe upon Deck, the
Captain order'd the Mate with three Mllen to break into
the Round-Houfe, where the new Rebel Captain lay,
and, having taken the Alarm, was gotten up, and with
two Men and a Boy had gotten fire-Arms in their
Hands; and when the Mate with a Crow fplit open
the Door, the new Captain and his Men fir'd boldly
among them, and wounded the Mate with a MusketBall, which broke his Arm, and wounded two more of
the Men, but kill'd no body.
The Mate calling for Help, rufh'd however into the
Round-Houfe, wounded as he was, and with his Fiftol
ihot the new Captain though the Head, the Bullet entering at his Mouth, and came out again behind one of
his Ears; fo that he never fpoke a Word; upon which
the reft yielded, and the Ship was taken effe&ually,
without any more Lives loft.
As foon as the Ship was thus fecur'd, the Captain order'd feven Guns to be fir'd, which was the Signal agreed
upon with me, to give me Notice of his Succels, which
you may be fure I was very glad to hear, having fat
watching upon the Shore for it, till near two of the
Clock in the Morning.
Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a Day of great Fatigue to me, I flept
veiy found, till I was fomething furpriz'd with the
Noife of a Gun; and prefently ftarting up, I hearda a
Man call me by the Name of Governour, Governour
and prelently I knew the Captain's Voice, when climbing up to the Top of the Hill, there he flood, and pointing to the Ship, he embrac'd me in his Arms, AMy dear
Friend and Delieverer, fays he, there's your Skip, fjorJke
is all yours, and fo are woe and all that belong to.her: I
caft my Eyes to -the Ship, and there fhe rode within
little more than half a Mile of the Shore; for they had
weigh'd her Anchor as foon as they were Mafters of her;
and the Weather being fair,,had brought her to an Anchor juft againft the Mouth of the little Creek; and.
the Tide being up, the Captain had brought the Pinpace




2( 262 )
mace in near dte Place where I firit landed my Rafts, arl
fo landed juft at my Door.
I was at irit ready to fink down with the Surprize:
For I faw my Deliverance indeed vifibly put into my
Hands, all Things eafy, and a large Ship juil ready to
carry me away whither I pleafed to go,- At firi, for
fome Time, I was not able to anfwer hinm one Word;
but as he had taken me in his Arms, I held faft by him,
or I fliould have fallen to the Ground.
He perceiv'd the Surprize, and immediately pulls a
Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave me a Dram of Cordial, which he had brought on purpofe for me; after I
drank it, I fat down upon the Ground, and though it
brought me to my feli, yet it was a good while before
I could fpeak a Vv ord to him.
All this while the poor Man was in as great an Extafy
as, only not under any Surprize, as I was; and he
faid a thoufand kind tender l hings to me, to compote
and bring me to my felf; but fuch was the Flood of Joy
in my Breaft, that it put all my Spirits into Confufion;
at laft it broke out into Tears, and in a little while alter
1 recover'd my Speech.
Then I took my Tarn, and embraced him as my De
liverer; and we rejoyc'd together: I told him, I look'd.upon him as a Man fent from H-eaven to deliver me,
and that the whole Tranfa&ion feem'd to be a Chain of
Wonders; that fuch Things as thefe were the Teflimonies we had of a fecret Hand of Providence govern.
ing the World, and an Evidence, that the Eyes of an
infinite Power could fearch into the remoterf Corner of
the World, and fnd Help to the Miferable whenever
he pleafed.
I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankfulnefs to
Heaven; and what Heart could forbear to blets him,
who had not only in a miraculous Manner provided for
one in fuch a Wildernefs, and in fuIh a defolate Condition, but from whom every Deliverance m uft always be
acknowledged to proceed!
When we had talk'da while, the Captain told me,
lie had brought me fome little Refrethments, fuch as the
Ship afforded, and fuch as the Wretches who had been fo
iong his Maiters had not plunder'dehim  of; Upon this
be




263 )
ie call'd aloud to the Boat, and bid his Men bring the
Things a-ihore that were for the Governour; and in.
deed it was a Prefent, as if I had been one, not that was
to be carry'd along with them, but as if I had been
to dwell upon the Ifland ftill, and they were to go with-.out me.
Firft he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full of excellent Cordial Waters, fix large Bottles of Mlade? a Wine;
the Bottles held two Quarts a-piece; two Pound of
excellent good Tobacco, twelve good Pieces of the Ship's
Beef; and fix Pieces of Pork; with a Bag of Peafe, and;about a hundred Weight of Bisket.
He brought me allb a Box of Sugar, a Box of Flow-.er, a Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of Lime-juice,
and abundanceof other Things; But befides thefe, and
what was a thouland times more ufeful to me, he brought
me fix clean new Shirts, fix very good Neckcloths,
-two Pair of Gloves, one Pair of Shces, a Hat, and one
Pair of Stockings, and a very good Suit of Cloaths of
his own, which had been worn but very little: In a
Word, he cloathed nme from Head to Foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable Prelert, as any one.may imagine, to one in my Circurftances: But never
wvas any thingin the World of that Kind fo unplealant,,awkard, and uneafy as it was to me to wear fach Cloaths.at their firft putting on.
After theie Ceremonies pail, and after all his good
Things were brought into my little Apartment, we 1egan to confult what was to be done with the Pril(ners
'we had; for it was worth confidering, whether we.might venture to take them away with us or no, efpecially two of them, whom we knew to be inctrrigible
and refa&ory to the laft Degree; and the Captain faid, he
Aknew they were fuch Rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he di4 carry them away, it mulftbein
Irons, as Malefa&ors, to be deiver'd over to Jufaice at
the firft Englihj Colony he could come at; and I found
that the Captain himlelf was very anxious about it.'
Upon this, I told him, that it he defir'a it, I durft
tendertake to bring the two Men he fpoke of, to make
it their own Requeft that he fnould leave them upon the
Ifland: I Jhould be very glad of that, fays the Captain,.vitb "all my 'eart.                         Wlle


7-7




(  264)
Well, fetys, I will fend for them up, and talk wvith
them for you: So caus'd Friday and the two Holtages,
for they were now difcharg'd, their Comrades having
-perform'd their Promiei  I lay, I caus'd them to go to
-the Cave, and bring up the five Men, pinion'd as theyf
were, to the Bower, and keep them there till I came. i
After fome Time, I came thither drefs'd in my newv
Habit, and now I was call'd Governour again; being
all met, and the Captain with me, I caus'd the Men to
lie brought befbre me, and I toldthem, I had had a fulll
Account of their villainous Behaviour to the Captain,
and how they had run away with the Ship, and were
-preparing to commit farther Robberies, but that Pro.
vidence had enfnar'd them in their own Ways, and that
they were fallen into the Pit which they had digged
for others.
I let them know, that by my Direfion the Ship had,been feiz'd, that fhe lay now in the Road, and they might
fee by-and-by, that their new Captain had receiv'd the
Reward of his Villainy; for that they might fee him
hanging at the Yard-Arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
fay, why I ihould not execute them as Pirates taken in
the Fa&, as by my Commiffion they could not doubt i
had Authority to do.
One ofthem anfwer'd in the Name oflthe reft, That
they had nothing to fay but this, That when they were
taken, the Captain promis'ed them their Lives, and they.humbly implor'd my Mercy: But I told them I knew
not what Mercy to ihew them; for, as for my felf, I
had refolv'd to quit the Ifland with all my Men, and
had taken Paffage with the Captain to go for England:
And as for the Captain, he could not carry them to
England, other than as Prifoners in Irons to he try'd for
Mutiny and running away with the Ship; the Confe-quence of which, they muft needs know, would be the
Gallows; fo that I could not tell which was bef for
them, unlefs they had a Mind to take their Fate in thtI
fland; if they defir'd that, I did not care, as I had
Liberty to leave it I had fome Inclination to give themn
4heir Lives, ifthey:thought they could ihi-ftn Shore.., 1  *.., ',..  T hey




( 65 )
They feem'd very thankful for it, -faid they would
much rather venture to flay there, than to be carry'd to
England to be hang'd; ib 1 left it on that Illue.
However, the Captain feem'd to make lome Difficulty of it, as-if' he durit not leave them there: Upon this
I feem'd a little angry with the Captain, and told him,
That they we'e my -'rilfners not his; and that feing
I had offer'd them to mul.h Favour, I would be as good
as my Word; and that if he did not think fit to content
to it, I would fet them  at Liberty as I found them;

he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordly iet them at Liberty, and bad them retire into the
Woods, to the Place whence they came, and I would
leave them fbme Fire Arms, Ibme Ammunition, and
fome Dire6aions how they fhould live very well, if they
thought -it.
Upon this, I prepar'd to go on Board the Ship, but
told the Captain, that I would flay that Night to prepare my Things, and defir'd him to go on Board in the
mean Time, and keep all right,in the Ship, and fend
the Boat on Shore the next Day for me; ordering 'him,
in the mean time, to caufe the new Captain who was
kill'd, to be hang'd at the Yard-Arm, that thef Men
might fee him.
When the Captain was gone, I fent for the Men up
to me to my Apartment, and entered ferioufly into Difcourfe with them of their Circunmfances: I told them,
I thought they had m-ade a right Choice; that if the
Captain carry'd them away they would certainly be
hang'd: I fliewed them the new Captain hanging at the
Yard-Arm of the Ship, and told them they had nothing
left to expe&.
When they had all declar'd their willingnefs to flay,
I then told them, I would let them into the Story of
my living there, and put them into the Way ofmaking
it eafy to them: Accordingly I gave them the whole
Hiftory of the Place, and of my coming to it; fhew'd
them my Fortifications, the way I made my Bread, planted my Corn, cured my Grapes; and in a Word, all that
was neceCary to make them eafy: I told them the StoN                  ry




( 266 )
Try alfo of the fixteen Spaniards that were to be expe&ed;
for whorml I left a Letter, and made them promile to.treat them in common with themfeves.
I left them my Fire-Arms, vii. Five Muskets, three
Fowling-Pieces, and three Swords: I had about a
Barrel of Powder left; for after the firtl Year or
two, I ufed but little, and wafted none: I gave them a
Defcription of the Way I managed the Goats, and Direations to milk and fatten them, and to make both Butter and Cheefe.
In a Word, I gave them every Part of my own Story;
and I told them, I would prevail with the Captain to
leave them two Barrels of Gun-Powder more, and fome
Garden-Seeds, which I told them I would have been.
vrery glad of; alfb I gave them the Bag of Peafe which.the Captain had brought me to eat, and bad them be
iiire to low and encreate them.
Having done all this, I left them the next Day, and.went on board the Ship: We prepar'd immediately to
fail, but did not weigh that Night: The next Morning early, two of the five Men catie fwimming to the
Ship's Side, and making a molt lamentable Complaint of
the other three, begg'd to be taken into the Ship, for
God's Sake, for they fhould be murder'd and begg'd the
Captain to take them on Board, tho' he hang'd them
immediately.
Upon this, the Captain pretended to have no Power
without me; but.after fbme, Difficulty, and after their
~olemn Prormiles of Amendment, they were taken on
Board, and were fane time after foundly vvhipp'd and
pickled; after which they prov'd very honeft and quiet
Fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the Boat on Shore,
the Tide being up, with the Things promifed to the
Men, to which the Captain, at my lnterceffion, caus'd
their CheRts and Cloaths to be added, which they took,
and were very thankful for:. I alfo encourag'd them,
iby telling them, that if it lay in my Way to fend any
~eflel to take them ini, I would not forget them.
When I took Leave ofthis lfland, I carry'd pn Board&
for Reliques the great Goat's Skin Cap I had made, my
l.ubrella, and one of my Parrots; alfo I frgot pn.
to




I  I         -- 1,1  1 z


( 267 )
to take the Money I formerly menti)n'd, which had lain
by me fo long ufelefs, that it was grown rufty, or tarniflh'd, and could hardly pafs for Silver, till it had been
a little rubb'd and handld; as alfo the Money I found
in the Wreck of the Spanijh Ship.
And thus I left the Ifland the Nineteenth of Decemw
sr, as I found by the Ship's Account, in the Year 1 S6,,
-after I had been upon it eight and twenty Years, twvo
Months, and nineteen Days; being deliver'd from the
*fecond Captivity the fallme Day of the Month that I firf
made my Efcape in the Barco-Longo, from among the
Mocrs of Salleo.
In this VefIel, after a long Voyage, I arriv'd in England, the Eleventh of yune, in the Year 1687, having
been thirty and five Years abfent.
When I came to England, I was a perfe& Stranger to
all the World, as if I had never been known there
My Benefaaor and faithful Steward, whom I haid left
in Truft with my Money, was alive, but had had great
iisfortunes in the World, was become a Widow the
fec.pnd Time, and very low in the World: I made her
eafy as to what fhe ow'd me, afiuring her, I would give
her no Trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude te
her former Care and Faithfulnefs to me, I reliev'd her,
as my little Stock would afford, which at that Tinme
wouid indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
affur'd her, I would never forget her former Kindnefs to
me; nor did I forget her, when I had fufficient to help
her;,as fhall be obferv'd in its Place.
I went down afterwards into Torklhire; but my Father was dead, and my Mother, and all the Family extin&; except that I found two Sifters, and two oftlie
Children of one of my Brothers; and as I had been long
ago given over for dead, there rad been no Provifion
made for me, fo that, in a Word, I found nothing to
relieve orafiftl me; and that little Mconey I had, would
not do fo much fbr me, as to fettling in the World.
I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which I
did not expeL&; and this was, That the Mafter of:the
Ship, whom I had fo happily deliver'd, and by the fame
Means lav'd the Ship and Cargo, having given a very.
handfole Account to the Owners, ofthe Manner how I
N 2                had




( 268 )
had fav'd the Lives of the Men, and the Ship, they invited me tu meet them, and fome other Merchants concern'd, and all together made me a very handfome
Complement upon the Subjeft, and a Prefent of almoit
two hundred Pounds Sterling.
But after making feveral Refle&ions upon the Circumltanccs of my Life, and how little M ay this wculd
go towards fettling me in the World, I refolv'd to go to.LsbSn, and fee it 1 might not come by fome Information of the State of my Flantation in the Brafils, and
of what was become of my Partner, who I had Realon
to fuppole had fome Years now, given me over for dead.
With this View I took Shipping for Lisbon, where I
arriv'd in April following; my Man Friday accompanying me very honelily in all thefeRamblings, and proving a mofl taithful Servant upon all Occafions.
W hen I came to Lisbon, I fbund out, by Enquiry, and
to my particular Satisfaaion, my old Friend the Captain of the Ship, who firfl took me up at Sea, off of the
Shore of' rick: He was now grown old, and had left
Oft the Sea, having put his Son, who was far from a
young Man, into his Ship; and who ftil ufed the Brafil Trade.  The old Man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew himn; but I foon brought my felf
to his Remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After!ome paflionate Exprelfions of our old Acquaintance, I enquire', )you may be fure, after my Plantation
and my Partner: The old Man told me, he had not
been in the Brafils for about nine Years; but that he
could allure me, that when he came away, my Partner
was living, but the Truflees who I had join'd with him
to take Cognizance of my Part, were both dead; that
however, he believ'd that I would have a very good
Account of the Improvement of the Plantation; for
that upon the general Beliefof my being caft away and
drown'd, my Truflees had given in the Account of the
Produce of my Part of thePlantation, to the Procurator
Pifcal; who had appropriated it, in Cafe I never came
to claim it, one Third to the King, and two Thirds to
the Monaltery of St. A4gufii, to be expended for the
Benefit of the Poor, and for the Converfion of the Indians to the Catholick Faith; but that if I appear'd,
or




( 269 )
or any one for me, to claim the Inheritance; it floulct
be reflor'd; only that the Improvement, or annual Produt&ion, being diftributed to charitable Ults, could not
be refior'd; but he allured me, that the Steward of
the King's Revenue (from Lands) and the Provedore,
or Steward of the Monaftery, had taken great Care all
along, that the Incumbent, that is to fay, my Partner,
gave every Year a faithful Accolun ot the Produce, of
which they receiv'd duly my Moiety.
I ask'd him, If he knew to what tHeight of Improvement he had brought the Plantation? And, whether
he thought it might be worth looking after? or whether, on my going thither, I fhould meet with no ObftruAtion to my polfetfing my juft Right in the Moiety?
He told me, he could not tell exatly to what Degree the Plantation was improv'd; but this he knew,
that my Partner was grown exceeding rich upon the
enjoying but one Half of it; and that, to the heft of
his Remembrance, he had heard, that the King's Third
of' my Part, which was, it feems, granted away to
fome other Monaftery, or Religious Houte, amounted
to above two hundred Moldores a Year; that as to my
being refior'd to a quiet Poffeflion of it, there was no
Queftion to be made of that, my Partner being alive to
witnefs my Title, and my Name being alfo enroll'd in
the Regifter of the Country: Alfo he told me, that the
Survivors of my two Truftees, were very fair honeft
People, and very Wealthy'; and he believed I would not
only have their Affifance for putting me in Poffeffion,
but would find a very confiderable Sun of Money in
their Hands, for my Account; being the Produce of
the Farm, while their Fathers held the Truft, and before it was given up, as above, which, as he remenber'd, was for about twelve Years.
I ihew'd my felf a little concern'd, and uneafy at this
Account, and enquir'd of the old Captain, how it came
to pafs, that the Trufters fhould thus difpofe of my
Effe s, when he knew that I had made my Will, and
had made him, the Pcrtuguefe Captain, my univerfal
1Heir, C'r.
He told me, that was true; but that as there was no'
Profof o m  being dead, he could not a&t as Executor,
N 3                   until




( 270)
until Lome certain Account ihould come of my Death;
and that befides, he was not willing to intermeddle
with a Thing fo remote: That it was true, he had Regiifer'd my Will, and put in his Claim; and could he
have given any Account of my being dead or alive, be
would have a&ed by Procuration, and taken. Poflie
lion of the ingenio ( lb they call'd the Sugar-Houfe) and
had given his Son, who was now at the Brafls, Order to do it.
But, tays the old Man, I have one piece of News to
tell you, which, perhaps, may not be to acceptable to
you as the reft, and that is, That believing you were
loll, and all the World believing fo alfo, your Partner
anrd Truftees did offer to accompt to me in your Name,
for fix or eight of the firft Years of Profits, which I
receiv'd; but there being at that Time, Lays he, great
Disburfements for increasing the Works, building an
lngenio, and buying Slaves, it did not amount to near
ib nuch as afterwards it produc'd: However, fays the
old Man, I flall give you a true Account of what I
have receiv'd in all, and how I have difpos'd of it.
After a few Days farther Conference with this ancient Friend, he brought me an Account of the fix firft
Years Income of my Plantation, fign'd by my Partner,
and the Merchant's Truflees, being always deliver'd in
Goods, vij. Tobacco in Roll, and Sugar in Chefts, befides Rum, Moloffes, Oic. which is the Confequence of
a Sugar-Work; and I found, by this Account, that every Year the Income confiderably increas'd: But, as
above, the Disburfement being large, the Sum at firft
was firall: However, the old Man let me fee, that he
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, betides 60
Chefts of Sugar, and i 5 double Rolls of Tobacco, which
were loft in his Ship; he having been fhip-wreck'd
coming Home to Lisbon, about I Years after my leaving the Place.
The good Man then begun to complain of his Misfbrtunes, and how he had been oblig'd to make Ufe of
my Money to recover his Loftes, and buy him a Share
in a new'Ship: However, my old Friend, lays he, you
fhall not want a Supply in your Neceffity; and as fbon
as my Son returns, you fhall be fully fatisfy'd.  Up
Upon




( 27I )
Upon this, he pulls out an old Pouch, and glves me
I6o Portugal Moidores in Gold; and giving nme the
Writings of his Title to the Ship, which his Son wasgone to the Brafils in, of which he was a (Quarter-PartOwner, and his Son another, he puts them both into
my Hands fbor Security of the reft.
I was too much mov'd with the Honefly and Kindnefs
ofthe'poor Man, to be able to bear this; and remembring what he had done for me, how he had taken me
up at Sea, and how generoufly he had ufed me on all
Occafions; and, particularly, how fincere a Friend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what
he faid to me: Therefore, firft I ask'd him,. it his Circumflances admitted him to fpare to much Money at,that Time, and if it would not ftraiten him? He told
mTe, he could not Jay but it might firaiten him a little; but however, it was my Mony, and I might
want it more than he.
Every thing the good Man faid, was fall of Affection, and I could hardly refrain from Tears wh4ile te
fpoke-: In fhort, I took io of' the.Moidores,.and call'
fCor a Pen and Ink to give him a Receipt for them; then.
I return'd him the refl, and told him, if ever I had
TPoffeffion of the Plantation, I would return the other
to him alfo, as ilideed,I afterwards did; and that as to
the Bill of Sale of his Fart in his Son's Ship, I would
not take it by any Means; but that if I wanted the Mlorey, I found he was honeal enough to pay me; and it'I
did not, but caie to receive what' he gave me Reafon
to exp~a, I would never have a Penny more from him.
When this was paftsd, the old Man began to ask me,
if he fhould put me in a Method to make nty Claim to
my Plantation? I told him, I thought to go over to it
my felf: He faid, I might do fo if I pleas'd; but that
if I did not, there were Ways enough to fecure my
Right, and immediately to appropriate the Profits tp
my U(e; and as there were Ships in the River of Lisbon, juft ready to go away to Brafil, h1e made me enter
my Name in a publick Regifter, with his Affidavit, at -
firming upon Oath that I was alive, and that I was the
fame Perfbn who took up the Land for the Planting the
'faid Plantation at firif*                              I
N 4                   This




( 272 )
This being regularly attefted by a Notary, and a Pro-,
curation affix'd, he direeted me to fend it with a Letter
ot his Writing, to a Mlerchant of his Acquaintance at
the llace, and then propos'd my ftaying with him'till
an Account came ot the Return.
Never any thing was more honourabTe than the Proceedings upon this Procuration; for in lefs than feven
Months I receiv'd a large Packet from the Survivors of
my Truflees, the Merchants, for whole Account I went
to Sea, in which were the following particular Letters
and Papers enclofed.
Tirfl, 1 here was the Account Current of the Produce
of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Year when their
Fathers had balanc'd with my old Portugal Captain, being for fix Years; the Balance appear'd to be 1174.yoidores in my Favour.
Secondly, There was the Account of four Years more,
while they kept the Eftf&s in their Hands, before the
~;overnment claimn'd the Adminiftration, as being the
Effi&fs of a Perfon not to be found, which they call
Civiui Death; and the Ballance of this, the Value of the
Plantationl encreafing, amounted to    Cruifadoes,
which made 3241 Moidores.
Thirdly, There was the Prior of the Aguflin's Account, who had receiv'd the Profits for above fourteen
Years; hut not being to account for what was difpos'd
to the Hofpital, very honeftly declar'd he had 872
Mdoidores not diftributed, which he acknowledg'd to
my Account: As to the King's Part, that refunded
nothing.
There was alfo a Letter of my Partner's,congratulating
me very affe&ionately upon my being alive; giving me
an Account how the Eflate was impnov'd, and what it
produc'd a Year, with a Particular of the Number of
Squares or Acres that it contain'd; how planted, how
many Slaves there were upon it; and making two and
twenty Crotes for Blefings, told me, he had faid fb
many Ave Maria's to thank the Bleffed Virgin that I
was alive; inviting me very paflorrately to come over
and take Poffeffion of my own, and in the mean time to
give him Orders to whom he fhould deliver my Efet&s, if I did not come my lelf concluding with a
hearty




( 273 )
hearty Tender of his Friendfhip, and t.at of his Fat
nmily, and font me, as a Prefent, ieven fine Leopards
Skins, which he had, it teems, received fronm fria, by
foine other Si.ip which he had fent thither, and vwho,
it Ieems, had made a better Voyage than I: He bfent
me alto five Chefts of excellent Sweetmeats, and atn
Hundred Pieces of Gold uncoin'd, not quite fo large as
Moidores.
By the fame Fleet, my two Merchant-Truflees fhipp'dl
ne 1200 Chefis of Sugar, 80o Rolls of Tobacco, and.
the reft of the whole Accompt in Gold.
I might.well fay now, indeed, That the latter End of
7cb was better than the Beginning: It is impoffible tos
exprefs the Flutterings of' my very Heart, when I
look'd over thefe Letters, and etljecially when I found
all my Wealth about me; for as the Brafil Ships comen
all in. Fleets, the fame Ships which brotught my Lerters, brought liy Goods; and the Eff6ts were fate in
the Tagis before the Letter came to my 'Hand: In a
Word, I turn'd pale, and grew fick; and had not the
old Man run and fetch'd me a C(ordial, I believe the
fudden Surprize of Joy had overfet Nature, and I had
ds'd upon the Spot.
Nay, after that I continued very ill, and wasfonle
Hours, 'till a Fhyfician being feRt for, and fomething
of the real Caufe of my Illnefl being, known, he orderi'd
me to let Blood; After which I had Relief, and grewv
well;but I verily believe, i;ftt had not been cas'd by
the Vent given in that Manner to the Spirits, I fhould.
have dy'd.
I was now Nlafaer, all on a fudden, of above 5Cool
Sterling in Money, and had an Ellate, as I might well
call it, il thle Brafils, of above a thoufand Pounds a1
Year, as lure as an Eflate of Lands in England; and, in,
a Word, I was in a Condition which I fcarce knew how
to underftand, or how to compote my felf for the Enjoyment of.
The firil Thing I did, was to recompence my onginalt

ginning, and Honeft to me at the End: I fhew'd himK
all that was fent nme  I told him, that next' to tie:
N  59 P




( 274 )
Providence of Heaven, which difpofes all Things, it
was owing to him; and that it now lay,on me to reward him, which I would do a hundred told: So I
firft returned to him the hundred Moidores I had received of him, then I- ent for a Notary, and caubed
him to draw up a General Releafe or Difcharge for the
470 Moidores, which he had acknowledg'd hle ow'd me,
in the ftilleft and firmef manner poffible; after which,
I caus'd a Procuration to be drawn, impowering him to
be my Receiver of the Annual Profits of my Plantation,
and appointing my Partner to Accompt to him, and
nake the Returns by the uhital Fleets to him in my
Name: And a Claufe in the End, being a Grant of too
Moidores a Year to him, during his Lire, out of the Effeas, and 5o Moidores a Year to his Son after him, for
his Life: And thus I requited my old MVan.
I was now to coriider which Way to fleer my CourfT
next, and what to do with the EfRate that Providence
had thus put into my Hands; and, indeed, I had more
Care upon my Head now, than I had in my filent State
of Life in the Ifland, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wafted; whereas I
had now a great Charge upon me, and my Bufinefs
was how to tecure it: I had ne'er a Cave now to hide
my Money in, or a Place where it might lye without
Lock or Key, 'till it grew mouldy and tarniih'd hefore
any Body would meddle with it: On the contrarpy, I
knew -not where to put it, or who to truti with it; my
old Patron, the Captain, indeed was honeft, and that
was the only Refuge I had.
In the next Place, my Intereft in the Brauits feem'd
to fummon me thither; blut now I could not tell how
to think of going thither, 'till I had fettled my Affairs,
and left my Eftfes in iome fafe Hands behind me: At
firft I thought of my old Friend the Widow, who I
knew was honeft, and would be juft to me; but then
fhe was in Years, and but poor, and, for ought I knew,
might be in Debt; To that, in a Word, I had no Way
but to go back to iEngland my felf, and take my Effe6ts
with me.
It was fome Months however before I refolv'd upon
Chis; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old Captain
fully,




C 275   )
fully, and to Satisfation, who had been myflormer BeietaAor, fo I began to think of my poor Widow, whole
Husband had been my firtl Benetador, and ilhe, whi'e
it was in her Power, my faithful Steward and Inftru:tor: So the firft Thilg I did, 1 got a Merchant in
Lisbon to write to his Correfpondent in Lcndcn, not only
to pay a Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in
Money an hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with
her, and comlrt her in her Foverty, by telling her, fihe
fhould, if I liv'd, have a further Supply: At the fame
time 1.ent my two Sifters in the Country, each ofthem
an hundred Pounds, they being, tio' not in Want, yet
not in very good Circumltances; one having been married, and left a Widow, and the other having a Hus$
Wand not fo kind to her as he ihould be.
But among all my Relations or Acquaintances I could.
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durft commit the
Grots of my Stock, that I might go away to the Brahls, and leave Things fae behind me; and this gr.eatly
perplexed me.
I had once a Mind to have gone to the Brafils, and.
have fettled my felf there; for I was, as it were, naturaliz'd to the Place; but I had fome little Scruple in
my Mind about Religion, which infenfibly drew me
back, of which I fliall ay more prefently. However,
it was not Religion that kept me from going there for
the pre!fnt; and as I had made no Scruple of being
openly of the Religion of the Country, all the while 1
was among them, oi*neither did I yet; only that now
ani then having of late thotight more of it, ( than formerly ) when I began to think of living and dying among them, I began to regret my having profeis'd -my
felt a Papift, and thought it might not be the beft Religion to die with.
But, as I have faid, this:was not the mrain Thing that
kept me friom goirngto the Brafils i but that really I did
not know with -whlom to leave my Effetis behind me;
fo I refolv'd alaft to go to England with it, where, if
I arriv'd, I concluded I fhould make iblne Acquaintance, or find fome Relations that would be faithful to
me; and accordingly I prepar;d to go for England with
U lmy W   I44h.
~d~)~:




( 276 )
In order to prepare Things for my going Home, r
firft ( the Bra/il Fleet being jufi going away) refolv'd
to give Anfwers fuitable to the juft and faithifl Acccunt of Things I had from thence; and firl to tohe
Prior of St. Augufline I wrote a Letter full of Thanks
for their jufi Dealings, and the Offer of' the 872 Moidores, which was undifpofed off, which I defir'd might
be given, 500 to the Monaftery, and 372 to the Poor,
as the Prior ihould direft, deiiring the good Padres
Prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a Letter of thanks to my two Truflees,
with all the Acknowledgment that fo much Jufice and
Honefly calld 'or; as for fending them any Prefent,
they were far above having any Occafion of it.
Lafiiy, I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging his Irr
duflry in the Improving the Plantation, and lhis tntegrity in encreafing the Stock of the Works, giving him IniYru&ions for his future Government of my Part, according to the Powers I had left with my old Patron, to
whom I defired him to fend whatever became due to
me, 'till he fhould hear from me more particularly; atfiring him, that it was my Intention, not only to come
to him, but to fettle my felf there for the Remainder of
jmy Life: To this I added a, very handfome Prefent of
fome ItalJan Silks for his Wife and two Daughters; for
luch the Captain's Son inform'd me he had; with two
Pieces offine Englij Broad-Cloath, the heft I could get
in Lisbon, five Pieces of black Bays,. and fone Flanders
Lae of a good Value.
Having thus fettled my Affiirs, fold my Cargo, and
turn'dall my Effe&s into good Bills of Exchange, my
next Difficulty was, which. Way to go to England: [
bad been acculonm'd enough to the Sea, and yet I had a
ft'ange Averfion to go to England by Sea at that Time;.
and though I could give no Reafon for it, yet the DifFieulty encreas'd upon me lo much, that though I had
once hipp'd my Baggage in order to go, yet 1 altered
my Mind, and that not once, but two r three times.
It is true, I hadI been very unfortunate by Sea, and
this might be fome of the Reafons: But let no Man
flight the.f rong Impulfesof his own Thoughts in Cafes of iiuch Moment: Two of the Ships which I had fintled


~.




( 277 )
gled out to go in, I mean, more particularly fingled out
than any other, that is to fay, to as in one of them to
'put my Things on Board, and in the other to have agreed with the Captain;I fay, two of there Ships mifcarry'd, vim. one was taken by the Algerines, and the
other was caft away on the Start near Torbay, and all
the People drown'd except three; fo that in either of'
thole Veffels I had been made miferable, and in which
moil, it was hard to fay.
Having been thus harrafs'd in my Thoughts, my old
Pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, prefs'd
mie earneftly not to go by Sea; hut either to go by
Land to the Grane, and crols over the Bay of BaJcay to
Rochell, from whence it was but an eafy and fafe Jour.
ney by Land to Paris, and lo to Ca!ais and Dover  or
to go up to Madrid, and fo all the Way by Land through
Ft ance.
In a Word, I was fo prepoffe's'd againft my going by
Sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I refolv'd
to travel all the Way by Land; which, as I was not inr
Haffe, and did not value the Charge, was by much the
pleafanterWay;andto make it more lo, my old Captain
brought an Englith Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to Travel with me; After
which, we pick'd up two who were Englilb and Merchants alfo, and two young Portuguefe Gentleman, the lafi
going to Paris only; fo that we were in all fix ofus, and
five Servants; the two Merchants, and the two PortugueJf contenting themfelves with one Servant between
two, to fave the Charge; and as for me, I got an EngliJb Sailor to travel with me as a Servant, betides my
Man Friday, who was too much a Stranger, to be capable of fupplyingthe Place of a Servant upon the Road.
In this Manner I let out from Lisbon: And our Company being all very well mount'd and arm'd, we made a
little Troop, whereof they did me the Honour to call
me Captain, as well becaufe I was the oldeft Man, as
becaufe I had two Servants, and, indeed, was the Original of the whole Journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my Sea Journals: fo I ihall trouble yQu now with none of my Land
Jour,




(. 278 )
Journal: But fbme Adventures that happen'd to us in
this tedious and difficult Journey, I mult not omit.
When wecame to Marid, we being all of us Strangers
to Spain, were willing: to flay tome Tims rto fee the
Court of Spain, and to fee what was worth obferving;
but it being the latter Part of the Summer, we haften'd
away, and let out from  M14adrid about the Middle of
toober: But when we came to the Edge of Navarre, wve
were alarm'd at feveral Towns on the Way, with an
Account, that fo much Snow was fallen on the French
Side of the Mountains, that feveral Travellers were oblig'd to come back to Pampeona, after having attempted at an extreme Hazard, to pafs on.
When we came to Pampeluna it felf, we found it fo
indeed; and to me that had been always ufed to a hot
Climate, and indeed to Countries where we could fcarce
bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was unfufferable; nor,
indeed, was it more painful than it was furprizing, to
come but ten Dajs before out of the Old Caflile, where
the Weather was not only warmln.but very hot; and
imnmediately to feel a Wind from the Pyrennsan Mountains, ib very keen, fo feverely cold, as to be intollerable,
andto endanger benumming and perifhing of our Fingers and Toes was very itrange.
PoorFriday was really frighted when he faw the Mountains all cover'd with Snow, and felt coldWeather, which
he had never feen or felt bcfore in his Life.
To mend the Matter, after we came to PafpelJua,
it continu'd Snowing with fo much Violence, and fo
long, that the People laid, Winter was come before its
Time, and the Roads, which were difficldt before, were
now quite impaffable; in a Word, the Snow lay in
fome Places too thick for us to Travel; and being not
hard frozen as is the Cafe in Northern Countries, there
was no going-without being in Danger of being bur.y'd
tive every Step: We laid no leIs than twenty Days
bt Pampeluna when (fecing the Winter coming on, and
ho likelyhopd of its being better, for it was the fevereat
Winter all over Eurcpe that had been known in many
Years) J propofed that we.ihould all go awvay to Fo. ie.
rabia, and there take Shipping for Bourdeaux, which
was a very little Voyage.




1-              1  I,  -   -  3,, I   W


( 79 )
But while we were confidering this, there came -in
four French Gentlemen, who having been flopped on the
French fide of ths Pafies, as we were on the Spanijb, had
found out a Guide, who traverfing the Country near the
Head, ofLanguedVc, had brought them over the Mountains by fuch Ways, that they were not much incoinm
moded with the Snow; and where they met with Snow
in any Quantity, they faid it was frozen hard enough
to bear them and their-Horfes.
We lent for this Guide, who told us, he would undertake to carry us the fame Way, with no Hazard from
the Snow, provided we were arm'd fufficiently to proted us from wild Beads; for, he faid, upon thefe great
Snows, it was frequent for fome Wolves to fhow themfelves at the Foot of the Mountains, being made ravenous for want of Food, the Ground being cjver'd with
Snow: We told him we were well enough prepared for
fuch Creatures as they were, it he would. erftre us
firom a Kind of two legged Wolves, which we were told
we were in moft Danger from, efpecially on the Fren/b
Side of the Mountains.
He fatisfy'd us there was no Danger of that Kind in
the Way that we were to go: So we readily agreed to
follow him, as did alfo twelve other Gentlemen, with
their Servants, tome French, fome SpanifJ, wlo, as I
faid, had attempted to go, and were oblig'd to come
bick again.
Accordingly we all fet out for Pampeluna, with oir
G6ide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed, I
was furpriz'd, when inftead of going forward, he came
diretly baek with us, on the fame Koad that we came
from  Madrid, above twenty Miles; when being pafs'd
two Rivers, and come into the plain Country, we- ound
ourfelves in a warm Climate again, where the Country
was pleafant, and no Snow to be feen; but on a fudden,
turning to the Left, he approach'd the Mountains another Way; and tho' it is true, the Hills and Precipices
look'd dreadful, yet he made fo many Tours, fitel Meanders, and led us by fuch winding Ways, we were infenfibly pafs'd the Height of the Mountains, without being
much incumber'd with the Snow; and all on a fudden
"he afew't us the 2leafant fruitful Provinces of.Lang-.) as




( 280 )
doc and Gafccign, all green and flourihhing; tho'indeed
they were at a great Diftance, and we had fome rough
W ay to pafs yet.
We were a little uneafy however, when we found it
fnow'd one whole Day, and at Night, fo faft, that we
could not travel; but he bids us be eat3y, we fhould lbon
be palt it all: We found, indeed, that we began to defcend every Day, and to come more North than before,
and fo depending upon our Guide, we went on.
It was about two Hours before Night, when our
Guide being fomething before us, and not juff in Sight,
out rufl'd three nlonitrous Wolves, and after them a
Bear, out of a hollow Way, adjoining to a thick Wood';
two of the Wolves flew upon the Guide, and had he
been halfa Mile before us, he had bee.n devour'd indeed,
before we could have help'd him: One of them taften'd
upon his Horfe, and the other attacked the Man with
that Violence, that he had not Time, or not Prefence of
Mind enough to draw his Piftol, but hollowed and cry'd
out to ts molt luftily; my Man Friday being next to me,
I bid him ride up, and fee what was the Matter: As
foon as Friday came in Sight ofthe Man, he hollow'd as
loud as t'other, 0 Mafier! 0 Aafler! But like a bold
Fellow, rode dire6ly up to the poor Man, and with his
Piftol fhot the Wolf that attacked him into the Head.
It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my Man
Friday; for he hlaving been uied to that kind of Creatuee,in his Country, had no Fear upon him; but went clofe
upto him, 'and fhot him, as above; whereas any of' us
Would have fir'd at a farther Diftance, and have perhaps either mifs'd the Wolf; or endangered fhooting the
Man.
But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder Man than
I, and indeed it alarm'd all our Company, when with.
the Noife of Friday'sPiftol, we heard Xn both Sides the
difimlleft howling of Wolves, and the Noife redoubled
by the Eccho of the Mountains, that it was to us as if
there had been a prodigious Multitude of them; and
'perhaps indeed, there was not fuch a few, as that we hd
no Caufe of Apprehenfions.
However, as F? iday had killed this Wolf, the other,
that had faflen'd upon the Horfe left. him inmediatel,
and




( 28I )
and fled, having happily faften'd upon his Head, where
the Bofies of the Bridle had ftuck in his Teeth, fo that
he had not done him much Hurt: The Man, indeed,
was mott hurt; for the raging Creature had bit him
twice, once on the Arm, and the other Time a little above his Knee; and he was jutt as it were tumbling
down by the Diforder of the Horfe, when Friday came
up and hlot the Wolf.
It is ealy to fuppofe, that at the Noife of Friday's Pitol, we all mended our Pace, and rid up as faft as the
Way (which was very difficult) would give us Leave,
to fee what was the Matter; as foon as we came cleat
of the Trees, which blinded us before, we faw plainly
what had been the Cafe, and how Friday had difengaged
the poor Guide; though we did not presently difcern
what Kind of Creature it was he had killed.
But never was a Fight manag'd fo hardily, and in fuch
a furprizing Manner, as that which follow'd between
Friday and the Bear, which gave us all (though at firit
we were furpriz'd and afraid for himn.the greateft Diveriion imaginable: As the Bear is a heavy, clumfey
Creature, and does not gallop as the Wolf does, who is
fwift and light;fo he has two particular Q)ualities, which
generally are the Rule of his A&ions; Firfl, As to Men,
who are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prey,
becaufe, tho' I can't fay what excefive hunger might do,
which was now their Cafe, the Ground being all cover'd with Snow; yet as to Men, he does not ufually
attempt them unlefs they firft attack him: On the contrary,if you meet him in theWoods,tho'if you don't meddle with him, he won't meddle with you; yet then you
muft take care to be very civil to him, and give him the
Road, for he is a very nice Gentleman, he won't go a
flep out of the Way for a Prince; nay, if you are really
afiaid, your beft way is to look another Way, and keep
going on; for fometimes, if you ftop, and fand ftill
and look ftedfaftly at him, he takes it for an Affront;
but if you throw or tofi any thing at him, and it hits
him, though it were but a Bit ot Stick as big as your
Finger, he takes it for an Affront, and fets all his other
Bufinefs afide to purfie his Revenge, for he will have
Satisfaeion in Point of Honour, that is his firft Quality:




( 282 )
The next is, That if he be once affronted, be will never
leave you, Night or Day, till he has his Revenge, but
follow, at a good round Rate, till he overtakes you.
My Man Friday had deliver'd our Guide, and when
we came up to him;, he was heTping him off fiom  his
H-orie, for the Man was both hurt and frighted, and indeed the laft more than the firft; when'on the fudden,
we fpy'd the Bear come out of the Wood, and a vaf
monftrous one it was, the biggefl by farthat ever I faw:
We were all a little furprized when we faw him, but
When Friday faw him, it was eafyto fee Joy and Courage
in the Fellow's Countenance: 0!   Q! 0! fays Friday,
three Times pointing to him, 0 M'afler! T, give me
te Leave, me Jhakee te Hand 'rith him, me makeea
good Laugh.
I was furpriz'd to fee the Fellow fo pleas'd; Toa Foo
you, fays I, be will eat you up: Eatee me up! Eatee me
up! fays Friday, twice over again; Ale eatee him up
Me make you good Laugh: Tu allflay hbre, me fJowyou
good Laugh: So down he fits3 and gets his Boots off in
a Moment, and put on a Pair of Pumps, (as we call the
flat Shoes they wear) ind which he had in his Pocket,
gives my other Servant his Horfe, and, with his Gun,
awvay he flew, fwift like the Wind.
The Bear was walking foftly-on, and offer'd to met r
die with no Body, ill Friday coming pretty near, calls'to him, as if the Bear could underftand him, Harl ye
barkye, fays Friday, me Jpeakee wit you: We follow'd at
a Diflance; for now being:comrn  down on the Gafcoig#
Side of the Mountains, we were enter'd a vaf' great
Foreft, where the Country was plain, and pretty open,
tho' many Treesin it fcatter'd herei and there.
Friday, who had, as we fay, the Heelsof theBear,
came up wi-h him quickly, and takes up a great Stone
and throws at him, and hit him juft on the Head; but
did him no more Harm, than if he had thrown it againft
a Wall; but it anfwer'd Friday's End; for the Rogu~
wasfo void of Fear, that he did it purely to make
the Bear follow him, and ihow us fonie Laugh; as hb
all'd it.                              -.    '
* As foon as the Bear felt the Stmoe, and faw  him, hb
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilifh long
Strides,




- -- ~~ --- 1 71 gn c`l~"l"ePsrs3lia


(283)
Strides, and lhuffling along at a f/range Rate, fo as would
put a Horfe to a middling Gallop; away runs Friday,
and takes his Co urfe, as it he run towards us for Help;
fb we all refolv'd to fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver my Man; tho' I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the Bear back upon us, when he was going about his own Bufineis another Way  and efpecially I
was angry that he had turned the Bear upon us, and
then run away; and I call'd out Tou D g, faid I, is this
jcur nTaking us laugh? Come away, and take your Horfe,
that we may jboct the Creature; he hears me, and cries
out, No Joct, no 7oot, flandflill, you get much Laugh:
And asthe nimble Creature run two Foot for the Beaft's
one, he turn'd on a fadden, on one Side of us, and feeing a great Oak.Tree, fit for his Purpofe, he beckon'd
us to follow, and doubling his Pace, he gets nimbly up
the Tree, laying his Gun down upon the Ground, at
about five or fix Yards from the Bottomof the Tree.)
1 he Bear foon came to the Tree, and we follow'd at
a Distance; the firfi Thing he did, he flopp'd at the
Gun, fmelt to it, but let it lie, and up he fcrambles ilrto the Tree, climbing like a Cat, tho' fo montfroufl
heavy:I was amaz'd at the Folly, as I thought it, of
my Man, and could not for my Life fee any Thing t6
laugh at yet, till iieing the Bear get up the Tree, we all
rode nearer to him.
When we came to the Tree, there was Friday got but
to the fmall of a large Limb of the Tree, and the Bear
got about half Way to him; as foon as the Bear got out
to that Part where the Limb of the Tree was weaker,
Ha, ifa s he to us, nowv you fee me teachee the Bear dance
fo he falls a jumping and fhaking the Bough, at which
tht Bear began to totter, but flood ftill, and began to
look behind him, to fee how he fhould get back; then
indeed we did laugh heartily: But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal; when he fees hilm ftand fill,
he calls out to him again, as if he had fuppos'd the Bear
could fpeak EngtiJh; WGat, you no come farther? Pray
you come fartber; fo he left jumping and fhaking tht
Bough; and the Bear, ju(t as if he had underftood what
he faid, did come a little farther, then he fell a-jumping
again, and the Bear Aopp'd again,




(284)
We thought now was a good Time to knock him on
the Head, and called to Friday to frand fiill, and we
would fhoot the Bea-; but he cry'd out earneisly, 0
pray! O pray! no f)oct, me Jhoot by and then; he would
have faid, by-and-by. However, to ihorten the Story,
Friday danc'd fo much, and the Bear flood lb ticklilh,
that we had laughing enough indeed, but fill could not
imagine what the Fellow would do; fbr firrf we thought
he depended upon fhaking the Bear off; and we found
the Bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fafi with his great broad Claws and Feet, to that we
could not imagine what would be the End of it, and
where the Jeft would be at lafl.
But Friday put us out of Doubt quickly; for feeing
the Bear cling fali to the Bough, and that he would not
be perfwaded to come any farther; WVeU, well, faid Friday, you no come arther, me go, me go; you no come to
me, we came toy.u; and upon this, he goes out to the
fmallefi End of the Bough, where it would bend with
his Weight, and gently lets himfelf down by it, fliding
down the Bough, till he came near enough to jump
down on his Feet, and away he run to his Gun, takes it
up, and tlands fill.
Well, faid I to him, Friday, What will you do now?
Why don't you fhoot him? Nofhoot, fays Friday, noyet,
one fiJoot now, the no kill; me flay, give you one m: re
-Laugh: And indeed fo he did, as you will fee prelently; for when the Bear fee his Enemy gone, he comes
back from the Bough where he flood; but did it mighty
]eifurely, looking behind him every Step, and coming
backward till he got into the Body of the Tree: Then
with the fame hinder-End fbremoft, he came down the
'Tree, grafping it with hisClaws, and moving one Foot
at a Time, very leilirely; at this Juncture, and jufi
before he could fet his hind-Feet upon the Ground,
Friday ftepp'd clofe to him; clapp'd the Muzzel of his
Tiece into his Ear, and chot him dead as a Stone.
Then the Rogue turn'd about, to fee if we did not
laugh, and when he faw we were pleas'd by our Looks,
he falls a-laughing himtelf very loud; S9 we kill Bear
my Country, fays Friday  to you kill thiem, fays f,
I' -                                       why




( 285 )
why you have no Guns: No, fays he, no Gun, but joot
great much long Arrow.
This was, indeed, a good Diverfion to us; but we
were fill in a wild Place, and our Guide very much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the Howling
of W'olves run much in my Head; and indeed, except
the Noife I once heard on the Shore of A'rica, of which
I have faid fomething already, I never heard any thing
that fill'd me with fo much Horror.
Thefe things, and the Approach of Night, called us
off, or elfe, as Friday would have had us, we lhould
certainly have taken the Skin of this monftrous Creature off, which was worth faving; but we had three
Leagues to go, and our Guide haffen'd us, fo we left
him and went forward on our Journey.
The Ground was ftill cover'd with Snow, tho' not
ib deep and dangerous as on the Mountains, and the
ravenous Creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the Foreft and plain Country, prefs'd by
Hunger to feek for Food; and had done a great deal of
Yifchiefin the Villages, where they furpriz'd the Country-People, kili'd a great many of their Sheep and
Horfes, and rome People too.
We had one dangerous Place to pafs, which our
Guide told us, if there were any more Wolves in the
Country, we fhould find them there; and this was a
fmiallPlain, furrounded with Woods on every Side,
and a long narrow Defile or bane, which we were to
pats to get through the Wood, and then we 1hould come
to the Village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an Hour of Sun-fet when we enter'd the firtt Wood; and a little after Sun-let, when,ve came into the Plain, we met with nothing in the
firft Wood, except that in a little Plain within the
Wood, which was not above two Furlongs over, we
faw five great Wolves crois the Road, full Speed one
after another, as if they had been in Chafe of fome
Prey, and had it in View, they took no Notice of us,
and were gone, and out of our Sight in a few Moments.
Upon -this our Guide, who by the Way was a
wretched faint-hearted Fellow, bid us keep in a ready
Pofture;




( 286 )
pofture for he believ'd there were more Wolves a
coming.
We kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us,
but we law no more Wolves, 'till we came thro' that
Wood, which was near half a League, and enter'd the
Plain; -as foon as we came into the Plain, we had Occation enough to look about us; the firft Objef we met
with, was a dead Horfe; that is to fay, a poor Horfe,
which the Wolves had kill'd, and at leaft a Dozen of
them at Work; we could not fay eating of him, but
picking of his Bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the FleIh before.
We did not think fit to diffurb them at their Feaft,
neither did they take much Notice or us: Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not fuffer him by
any Means; for I found we were like to have more Bufinefs upon our Hands than we were aware of; We
were not gone half over the Plain, but we began to
hear the Wolves houl in the Wood on our Lett, in a
frightful Marner; and prefently after we Law about a
hundred coming on diretly towards us, all in a Body,
and mofft o them in a Line, as regularly as an Army
drawn up by experienc'd Officers: I fcarce knew in
what Manner to receive them; but found to draw ourfelves in a clofe Line, was the only way: So we form'd
in a Moment: But that we might Iiot have too much
Interval, I order'd, that only every other Man fhould
ire, and that the others who had not fir'd, would fland
ready to give them a fecond Volley immediately, if
-they continued to advance upon us, and that then thofe
'who had fir'd at firft, fhould not pretend to load their
Fuzees again, but ftand ready with every one a Piflol,
fot we were all arm'd with a Fuzee, and a Pair of Piflols each Man; to we were by this Method able to fire
fix.Volleys, halfof us at a time; however, at prefent
we had no Neceflity, for upon firing the firft Volley,
thie Enemy made a full Stop, being terrified as well
with the Noife, as with the Fire  four of them being
4hot into the Head, dropp'd; feveral others were wounda   ~ed, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by the Snow:
I found they ftopp'd, but did not immediately retreat;
Whereqpon -rgeembring -that I had been told, that the,fierceRf




( 287    )
fierceRf Creatures were terrify'd at the Voice of a Many
I caus'd all our Company to hollow as loud as we could;
and I found the Notion not altogether miftaken, for
upon our Shout, they began to retire, and.turn about;
then I or.dr'd.a fecond Volley to be fir'd, in their Rear,
which put them to the Gallop, and away they went to,the Woods.
This gave us leifure to charge our Pieces again, and
that we might lofe no Time, we kept going; but we
had but little more than loaded our Fuzees, and put
our felves into a Readinefs, when we heard a terrible
Noiie in the fame Wood, on our Left, only that it wvas
farther onward the fame Way we were to go.
The Night was coming on, and the Light began to
be dusky, which made it the worfe on cur Side but the
Noife encreafing, we could eafily perceive that it was
the howling and yelling of thofe hellifih Creatures and
on a fudden, we perceiv'd two or three Troops of
Wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one on cur
Front; fo that we feem'd -tobe furrounded with them;
however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our
Way forward, as faft as we could make our Horits go,
which the Way being very rough, was only a good
large Trot; and in this manner we came in View of
the Entrance of a Wood, thro' which we were to pals,
at the farther Side of the Plain; but we were greatly
furpriz'd, when coming near the Lane, or Pals, we law
a oonfus'd Number of Wolves ltanding juft at tLe Entrance.
On a fudden, at another opening of the Wood, we
lieard the Noife of a Gun; and looking that Way, outruih'd a Horfe, with a Saddle, and a Bridle on him,
Rlying like the Wind, and fixteen or feventeen Wolves
after him, full Speed; indeed, the Horfe had the Heels
of them; but as we fuppos'd that he could not hold it
at that rate, we doubted. not bt~ they would get up.
-with him at laft, and no queflion bUt they did.
Here we- had a molt horrible Sight; for riding up
to the Entrance where the Horfe came out, we tound&
the Carcafs of another Horfe, and of two Men,: -dei
vour'd by the rayetous Creatures, and one of the Mve
was uo dubtbtt  arew0ho we hbard r    h fire he; for-,there




(   88 )
there lay a Gun jufl by him fir'd off; but as to the Man,
his Head, and the upper Partofhis Body, was eaten up.
This fill'd us with Horror, and we knew not what
Courfe to take, but the Creatures refolv'd us foon;
for they gather'd aboutus prefently, in hopes of Prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them:
It happen'd very much to our Advantage, that at the
Entrance into the Wood, but a little Way from it,
there lay fome large Timber Trees, which had been
cut down the Summer before, and 1 fuppofe, lay there
for Carriage: I drew my little Troop in among thofe
Trees, and placing our felves in a Line, behind one long
Tree, I advis'd them all to Light, and keeping that
Tree before us, for a Breafl-Work, to ftand in a Triangle, or three Fronts, enclofing our Horfes in the
Center.
We did fo, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious Charge than the Creatures made upon us
in this Place; they came on us with a growling kind of
a Noifeand mounted the Piece of Timber, (which as I
faid, was our Break-Work, as if they were only rufhing
upon their Prey; and this Fury of theirs, it feems, was
principally occafion'd by their feeing our Horfes behind
us, which wvas the Prey they aimed at: I order'd our
Men to fire as before, every other Man; and they took
their Aim fo fure, that indeed they kill'd feveral of the
Wolves at the firIt Volley  but there was a Neceflity to
keep a continual Firing; for they came on like Devfls,
thofe behind, puffing on thofe before.
When we had fir'd our fecond Volley of our Fuzees,
we thought they flopped a little, and I hop'd they
would have gone off, but it was but a Moment,+ for
others came forward again; fo we fir'd two Volleys of
our Piflols, and I believe in thefe four Firings, we killed feventeen or eighteen of them, and lam'd twice as
many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to fpend our lati Shot too haflily; to I cal.
led my Servant, not my Man Friday, for he was better
emnplay'd; for with the greateft Dexterity imaginable,
he bad charg'd nly Fuzee, and his own, while we were
engag'd, lut as I faid, I alled my other Man, and giving him a Horn ofPowder, I bad him lay a Train, all
along




aloog 4e Piece; of-Tirnbqrand letit be a large T'rahi ~
bedi4 o, an ha4 bt ju e -into get away, wyhen the
Wolves came- up to it, ~and fome were got up upon it;
whe  Ifapping an uncharg'd Pit~ol, clofe otePw
<icr, e it oil liire; thofe that were upon the Timber
were fcorch'd with it,, azid fix or ('even of them fell, or
rather jup' in auiwng us, with the Force and Fright
of the f~ire, we~ dipatch'd thefe in an Inftant,, and the
Yeai were fo frighted with the Light, which the Night,for it waq now very near dark, made. more terrible, thavt
they 4rew bak a little.,
- Vpon which I, order'd our WaI Puifos to be fir'd off
in one Volley, and, after that we gave a Shout; upon
this, the Wolves turn' Tiand we fally'd imm ediate'
lyupn rear~twenty lameOnes, who we found drug.
Iig on th~e Grpou~d, and -fell a cutting them with or z>
S~vords, whi'chanfwer'd our Expeftation;- for the Cryiog, and. Howling they m-acde was, better underflood by
therirelos fo that they all Ried and left us.
Wev hed, hrfl and laG, killd About threefcore o f them;
an~d had it- been Day-light, we had kilI'd m~an"y more
T'he Field of Battle being thus clear'cl, we m.,ade forw~r  agiin for we had Qill near a League to go: We
he-w~th renow- Creatures howl anclyell in the Woods,
as we went, feveral times; and fometimes we fiancv'dwA A~w, foe fthemi butt the Snow dlzling' ou  Eyes
we~-V ~w   o  etin; fo, in about an Hour more,, we
c;Lmc tolthp Town, where wo wevre to lodre,, which we
founA'iin- a terrible Fright; and all in Arms; fornt feems,,
that 'the Ni, ght before, the Wolves and fome Bears head.
b~roke:jpto;hat Village, and Put them in a Iterrible
iPriglt;. ~anA4 hvy~wete oblig'd to keep Guard Night And
Day, but efpecially in the Night, to, preferve. their Cat-~
jh'h- next-Mprr~ng Iour Guide, was fo ill and' his
Ttbs to  W&  ith hernln      of his' two Woundi
tht e  ldi4g no farhe~r; 'o we were oblig'd to take a-,new Guide therre, and go, to Tholoa4e, where ~we found a
-warm Climat%, a fruiattul pleafan Country and no Snow,
ni Wolves, or any Thing like them; but when we told
~.r Story -at               us~ue, hytl  sit was nothing z It
wtyas O 4~ry in thegreat ~    et, at he lzot
0               the




,tbe Mountains,, efoeaially.w-hen, the-So  lay o6~i
Grounld: But they enqtir'd 'much what:kind- ofa U 3iicde
we had gotten, that ivwouki venture to bring u~s *tha t
Way in Iinch a fevere Seafon, and told us, it was very
much we were not all devour'd-: When wve told-themn
how we p~lac'd our I'elves, and the H4orfes in thre middle,~
they, blamn'd us exceedingly, and. told us it Iwas Ifif~tyto,one but, we had been all defilroy'dc; for it Wam`th Sight
oqf the H~orle's-which inade the Wolves fob Ifrious, feeilig
their Prey,;, and that at other Timnes they, are really' afiraid of a Gun: but they being exceffive hungr-y, and
raging ontatAcunte Eagernefs, to Co me At' the
Horles head made them  fenfielels- of danger; 'and that
if we had not by the continu'd Fire, -and at laff by the
Stratagecm of the Train of',Powder,,mafler'd th'em, it'
head been great Odds hut that ~we had. bveei -torn to Pi&ces; whereas had we hbeen. ctntent to have 'fat flill on
Norfe-hack, and fired asfHorfiemeb, they would notbhave,
tAkcn the Hori's l~b much, fot their own whenMen where
n-n their Backs, as other wife; and Withal they toldids,
that at laffi we had fl-ood altogether, and left our 4or.fis, they-would have been fo eager to hav'e devour'dthem,) that we-might hbave come u ff~ fafe,, efpecially
h~aving our Fire Amws i14 our: Hands,,,t  heingfo mn
For my Part, -T~was never lb fenfible of Aiiger iii myv
Life; for 4'eein-A above thriee hundred Devils~ corifiroar4
ICg and bpen-~mouthjed to devour us, and- he~ve`- ~Inthiing
to fhelter- us, or retreat to, I gave my feIfo6v, r for"' loft;
aDnd as it was, I ~believe, I ihall n.ever care to, crf hf
MVountains again;- I think I would much rather ~go a
thpufand Leagues by Sea.r though -I were fure' 'to" meeftt,with a Stormq once-a Week.
b ave nothing uncommon to take notblicecf~ Th mny
Paffage through Fronce;;-nothing~but whit other-` Trv~eh-.
krs have given anAccount, of' With -~niueh Mbte Ad-,
vantage than I can:. I t'ravelI'd'tom Thou! oufe tb Paolr,,and without Any confiderahie Stay, came to -Callis, anct
and landed Cfafie at Dover, the fourteenths ofqYanuary af.
terihaving. bad a fevere cold Seafon to travel in'.
Iwsnow come,tobte ~Center d~f myTavsjar
ti4in alteTime, Mal ay-*w      Irdifr.e r'd -Eft i6 'if
albout




(: 29    )
about we,, the Bills of Excliange whicl I brought wish
hte,avaing been very currently paid.
Mty principal Guide, and IPrivy-Counfellor, was my, good ancient Widow, who in Gratitude for the MAoney
I had Lent her, thought no Pains too much, or Care
too great, tp employ Ior me; and I trufted her lb entire)l wi'th ev&ry Th'ing, thatI was perfe&tly ea{5 as to the;+ecuriyo(f X my Eff'fts; and indeed,, was very happy
from niy Beginning, and now to the End, in the unipottes Integrity of this good Gentlewoman.
And'now I began to think of leaving my Effeas witjl
this Woman, and fetting out for Lisbon, and. lb to the
Brafls:.But now another Scruple came in my Way, and,that was Religion; for as I had entertain'd Lome Doubts
aout \the Roman, Religion, even while I was abroad,
ifpedially in my State of Solitude; fo I knew there w~s
n9 going to the Brafils for me, much lefs going to fettle
}Ither~, unlefs I refolv'd to embrace the Roman Cathalick Religion, without any Referve; except on the other
hand, I refolv'd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be
a Martyr for Religion, andI die in the Inquifition; fo
I retolv'd to flay at Home, and if I could find Means
Tor it, to difpofe of my Plantation... To this Purpofe I wrote to my old Friend at Lisbon,.
wIvho in Return gave me' Notice, that he could eafily
difpofe of it there: But that. if I thought fit to give
him Leave to offer it in my Name to the two Merchants,
the Survivors of my Truftees who liv'd in. the Brafils,
'who muft fu.lly underftand the Value of it, who liv'dc
juft upon the Spot, and who I knew were very rich,
lb that he believ'd they would be fond of buying it; he
aid not doubt, but I fhould make 4 or 5oQo Pieces of
Eight the more of it.:..
Accordingly I agr6ed, gave him Order to offer it to
thMm, and ie did fo; and in about eight Months more,
tlie Ship being then return'd, he Lent me an Account,
that they had accepted the Offer, and had remitted
3300o Pieces of Eight, to a Correfpondent of theirs at
Lisbcn, to pay for it.
In Return, I figned! the InfIrument of Sale in the
Form, which they lent from Lisbon~ and fent it to my
old Man, who fent ime Bills of Exchange for 328co
' 0 2                      '"      'Piees




1'ieces of Eight  for the Eftate; refervipg - the'ayxnent of too Moidores a - Year to him, thee 'd Miti,
during his Lif&, anld 5o Moidores afterwards to' his
Son for his Life, whiclh I had promis'd them; and: which
the; Plantationwas to make good as a Rent-Charge.
And thus I have' given the firfL 1art of a Life Of
Fortune and Adventure, a ife of' Providence's Ch equer-Work, and of a Variety which the WOirld will
feldom b* able to thew the like of:, Beginning fooliihly, hut clofing much more happily than.ay at of it
ever gave me Leave fo much as to hope for.,
Any one would think, that in this State of. compli.
cated good Fortune, I was paft runningiany niore Hazards; and fo indeed I had been, if other Circumftances.
had concurred, but I was innured to a wandering itge,
bad no Family, -nor many Relations,4 nor, however rifch
had i       eonera&e  much' Acquaintance; and through i hid
fold my Eflate in the Brafils, yet I qould not keep tAt
Country out of my Head, and had a great Mind ti to'eupon the Win again, Ifpqciall y T could nor relifl'thie
ironig Inclination I had to fee my lIand, and to know
if the poor spdniards were in Being there, and how~' le
Rogues I left there) had ufed thenm.,
My true Friend the Widowea r  1ieftlly adifwadd  me
froon' it, alnd -'I frpre4 irai  with' me, that for' allizhft
even Yearis R-lhte preenteld 'my running abroad; di
which Time, I todk xiy tw6 Nephews, the ClAIdrn t
one of' my Brothers, into my Care. The eldenf havihg'
fomething of bis ow n I bred uup as a Gentlemban and
gave him a Settlement of' fome Addition to  s h fiate,
after my D)eceafe; the other I put out to a Captain ofa Ship; -and after 1filV  Years, fnding him anfl~,
bold, enterprzing young Fellow, I put hini into a good
Sh~rip, a  tnd oera himto: And thbs young Fellow afterwards -drew me in' as ~4d as I was, ta ftrther AdIie.
tures my felf.
In the mean time, I in part fettled my felf here; for
~drfl of all I maarry'd, and that not either to miy Difadvantage or Dilfatisfiaion, and had three Children, twVo
Sons and one Daughters But my Wife dyini, -and my.
Nephew c    ng Home with 9god SEef fro    a Voy.
age to S9aiz, nm Inclination to go-abroad, andr;his finPortunity,




(2    3 )
portunity, prevailed and ehgag'd me to gb in his Ships
as a private, Trader to the Ef-lndies: This was in the
'Year 1694.
In this Voyage I vifited my new Colony in the Ifland,
faw my Succeofrs the Spaniards, had the whole Story
of theit Lives, and of the Villains I left there, how at.,irft they infulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards agreed, difagreed, united, feparated, and how at
laft the Spaniards were oblig'd to uife Violence with
them i how they were fubjected to the Spaniards  how
honefHy the Saniards us'd them; a Hiftory, if it were
enter'd into, as full of Variety and wonderful Accidents, as my own Part, particularly alfo as to their Battles with the Carribeans, wh6 landed feveral times upon
the Ifland, and as to the ImproVement they made upon
the ISland itfelf, and how five of them made-an Attempt
upon the main Land, and biught away eleven Men and
five Women Prilbners, by which, at my coming, I found
about twenty young Children on the Iland.
Here I flay'd about 2o Days, left them Supplies of all
neceffary Things, and particularly of Arms, Powder,
Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two Workmen, which I
brought from England with n, viz.- a Carpenter and a
Smith:.
Befides this, I fhar'd the Ifland into Parts with 'em,
referv'd to myfelf the Property of the whole, but gate
thefi fiuch Parts, refpefRively as they agreed on; and.
having fettled all Things with thenm, and engaged them
not to leave the Place, I left them there.
From thence I touch'd at the Brails, from whence I
fent a Bark, -which I bought there, with more People,
to the Iflahd, and in it, befides other Supplies, I int
feven Women, being fuch as I found proper for Setvice, or for Wives to fiuch as would take them: As to
the Exglblj Men, I promis'd themi to fend them fotm
Women from England, with a good Cargo of Neceffaries,if they would apply themfelves to Planting, which I
afterwards could not perform: The Fellows prov'd very
honeft and diligent, after they were mafter'd, and had
their Properties fet apart for them. I Lent them alfo
from the Brts five Cows three of them being bi
-               with




(  294 )
itvh Calf, fQme Sheep, and foe Mgs, which,. when
I came again, Were confiderably epcreas4.
~ But all there Things, With an Account' how 3o0 Ckribbes canme and invaded them, and ruin'd their Plantations, and how. they fought with that whole Number
twice, and were. at firi. defeated, and one of thegi
* Mkill'd; but at laft a Srorm deftlroying their Enemics c<noes, they fanifh'd or deflroy'd almoft all the reff, aad
renew'd and recover'd the PofIeffion oftheir Plantation,
and fill liv'd upon the fland.
All thefe Things, wvith fome very furprizing Incidents in fome new Adventures of my own, for ten Years
more, I may perhaps give a farther Account of hereafter.
F       I'N I                S.
T     HE Life and' ftrange fuirprifing Adventures of Rob'infon             ufoec, printed
tions on his Life and Adventures, with
'oo'.    Printed for.     Taylor, at the Ship
and Black-Swan, hi Pater-Nofter-Row.




ROO 0Ks Thrintedf~rr W. TAY LO R
4 at the' Ship and Black Swan, in PaterNofler-Row.
B   ISH 0 P Beverhdgq's Sernmons, -2 Vol. Fol.
-His Tbefizieus Theoeics, 4 Vol. - vo.
His~iivateThoughs Iin 2 Vol. With Cuts.
*  The famne in oxie Vol. i 2m). without cut-S.
His great Neceflity, of Publick Prayer, andt freqient Cotinunit n; iwn-volat~1 2mo.
'Aft ronno6tiical C66ities; f&ve
Afirnornoical Principles., Svc.
-  Sir IJfutrc Newton's -P1ilof6p.1  i d~ nrated, Svo.
Love's wvhole Art of -S-trvteying,' 8,"aJo..U4wks beie's' Phyfico-Mecha~nical Experiments with
Cuts.
Religious Philofopher, -1 Vol. with Cuts, v.
Gravefend's MteaticlEe        nti2Vo.wh
Outs.               ca   lmet.'        'I.wt
Dr. DeJ'agul~ers Tr'anfla'tion of Maro's Hydrofta.
Uc'de 8i'#. with Cuts.
O"   Hi4s n             Dir'  ifenatr, E- oc. e Svo. o
-~  i  ew Metho'c of Dieting  ofe,~o
General ~Atlas in fcolio.
Sared, Gco aphyiiSxMp..M4asCrnlgtcal TAbl&      Rvi         "yt'e ate.
Wbtflcn's Chronoloical Ta leks bin 'Spkex
to Mr. Mazrlhall.
-  Hisi-wo, Letr tothe Biffliop Of'ioad.
-  His Letter to the Earl of 'Nsttingb
-  His Origin  of the SWdfIa4   and Atbanalian




Roos -~i~ed f~rW.Taylorl
S..      e.h.a-Suplement to the fae with Copper-Plates, Fol.
in7s Difpenfatory,,Svo.
H4is Phyfi1cal. Ditionary,, Svo.
His Tranflation, otf SanEkcripoess Aphorifis, Svo.'
J'Iafrarh's Morals in i Vol1. I 2rno.
'eAdventures of Telemacbus, in 2 VWI. 1 2MA~The Arabian Nights Entertainments conipleat, in 6,Vol. 12mv,
W;ifon's ~Lodn's Atomp~tant;, i2mu0.
H-is Trigonbmhetry Made efy, 12~mo.
Colleftio'n of Divine Poemas. By. M.rs.-Singer.. i2mc..Art of Thinking'I INmc'.
New General Ai as, prlipted on a aine Ele phant I?
rer,, ad-orn'cl with Cuts, Fol
Ogleb~y's Survey of t~  ~djimprqve y        M
Sinex.
Camrvbray of the E A eicc ~fqI~
-His DI:alogu  ~     j,JPead, %i4mv
Compleat,'Spoftlm~iia, NV t.- Afl he Laws rela ig to
the Gamne, 12ft0.,
Lawrence's Clergymnen's Rccreatixp Sme.

lidiecs Rerreaaon  inc~A frer ~Impirovemien o
thle Art qEG~rdenig coinina the b(,      yfpo
pagating all 5orti&,aFtq~ &r,; ~wrr~4~rI
the Inott o    6ipoioiv* M~ethqd*.' gir e   ojn  ( en
Houfes~t~c. % fiatadonsin Avenues, Wa1IsW1
4derneffes, Elco with thie Gardfiner's Cnpleit, Kalkndr;
or therArt,4-Nanagingtoboth "the FPruit Gvden gnd Kitchen,Garden, every Month. in the~ Year,(_ By i*4et
J~vebj, Efq.,.TowhICbiadaaL~e~oh               u
*hor, ~"6i*billt ribme cuirious Obfervations concerninig
Variegated, Greens 1Y.- By*7 J4.re 14. A. Reator
0Vf 1riMatinNfb~Ptonjire.             V
Bih0 Tai~'    oly Living At P~z
Iiistibe-,rty oF -rophecyig.
-    Y isTreatife of ReetneS. -vnt
Dr..Boulton's Sermon of Obc4iesce to the Oil=h




- 1 1-7 11 I,- "II




WIXITWIIIpoopq.", I         - ', 7-n7m  7r
A  L            7      I    11   11    I              I, I
z                 ;F       77777.1                                             'Ir




la




,,-!y


AI





