--^:%« 










^^' 










cN9 







<^^/ r/z/^r/f^/r Ay/// 



V 









*t ♦ 



THE MOST SURPRISING 

ADVENTURES^ 

AND WONDERFUL 

L I F E 

O F 

Robinfon Crufoe^ 

Of Y o r Ky M A R I n||||||^ 

CONTAINING 

A FULL AND PARTICULAR ACCOUNT HOW HIS 
SHIP WAS LOST IN A STORM, AND ALL HIS 
COMPANIONS WERE DROWNED, AND HE ONLY 
WAS CAST UPON THE SHORE BY THE WRECK ; 
AND HOW HE LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY 
YEARS IN AN UNINHABITED ISLAND, ON TK£ 
COAST OF AMERICA, &c. 



w^l 1 H 

A TRUE RELATION HOW HE WAS AT LAST MI^ 

RACULOUSLY PRESERVED BY PIRATES, 

&c. &c. &c. 



PORTLAND: 
Printed and Sold by TMOMAS B. WAIT. 



PREFACE. 

IN this TieiAi abridgement of the ivcnderfui life and 
moj} furprijing adventures of Robinjon CruJoCx I think 
TnyJ elf obliged to acquaint the reader, *' Ihat all pojfible 
tare has been taken to prefer ve the hiftory entire^ to cor- 
reR Jome mijlakes in fonner itnpreffions^ and to add a con- 
fiderable number of fads and material obfer^vati'ons that 
ha<ve of late occur ed^ and 'voert ne^ver publijhid but. in 
this e<iition. 

The general fuccefs and the juft applaufe the nvork 
at Jarg^ has met ivith, render it needlefs for me to fay 
ikny thing in its commendation ; nor do I think the <voeak ex- 
(eptions that ha've been made againft the poffibility of 
the f cry, defer-ve. any obfer'vation. What if the njohole 
nvas fas is fuggefed) a tneer fidion ? Yet the defign is 
fo jujfly carried on^ and jo interfperfed iv-ith curious ob- 
Jernjations and moral refeSiionsy that all perfo?is nuhoha'vi 
GUy tajie for the metaphorical way ofnvritingy mujl 
allonv this a ruafter piece, and I 'will venture to fay , the 
hx^ and beil of the kind that ever appeared in the Eng- 
■^jh language' 

Bi'tas I hope the performance nvill fpeak better in its 

sv:)i favoxr than any body can pretend to do, I /hall 

trouble the reader, nor my/elf, njoith ufelefs apologies, 

fir attempt to perjuade any one into an opinion of a 'work 

\f'b uni'uerfally eftctmed. 

Let this abridgemtnty *which is contr aQed into as nar^ 
roiv a compafs as pcjjible, be hnt read o^ver nvith that 
(onf deration and fedaienejs <vjhich the nature of the defign 
dejerves, and then there is no doubt to be made, i>ut the 
candid reader nvill find a fuificient return both/^r his 
trouble and expence , and, njjith thefe cautions, and 
i-pen this prGf^mption, I fubmit the foth'v.Hfig Jheets H 
Lis perufai. 



THE 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

HE that pretends to pubUfli to the world aa 
account of hJs own li(c and a<5\ion$, is 
doubtlefs under the ftrongeft obligations to con- 
fine himfclf within the ftncleft rules of modcfiy 
and truth : and this, I can afTure the publick, 
I moft folemnly determine to do in the follow- 
ing narration. 

I was born at York, in the year 1632, of a 
reputable family. My father was a merchant, 
born at Bremen ; his original name was Krcnt» 
zuzer, which for the fake of the Eugliih pronun- 
ciation, was afterwards changed into Crufoco 
My mother's name wasRobinlon, a native of the 
county of York ; and for that rcafon I was call- 
ed Robinfon, after her maiden name. 

I was the youngefl of three broiherf. The 
eldefl was an o^cer, and killed in the wars in 
the Low Countries j and the other I could n«- 
ver learn any thing of. My father intending mc 
for the law, particular care was taken of my 
education : but all the paics and expenct were 
to no purpofe ; my inclinations were bent ano- 
ther way, and nothing would fcrvc my turn, 
but, at all hazards, I muft go to fca. 

My father and rrjother were both violently 
^gainft it, and u fed a thoufand aTgumcnts to 
difTusdc me ; but it was all to no purpofe : my 
reloi unions were lb firmly fettled, ibat neitht.f 



6 R B I N S W 

the intrcaties of a moft tender father, oor tke 
tears of an afFccSlionate mother, could make any 
impreffion upon me. 

I was then about nineteen years old, whea 
meeting with one of my fchoolfcllows at Hull, 
who was going with his father, who was mafter 
of a (hip, to London, I acquainted him with my 
refolutions, and he readily promifedmc I fhould 
have a free paiTage, and be provided wirh all 
other DecefTaries fuitable to the voyage. Ae- 
cordingly, without imploring a bkfiing of my 
parents, I took Ihipping on the firft ot Septem- 
ber, 1 65 1. 

Our fhip was hardly got clear of the Humber, 
when wc were overiakeo by a violent florm^ 
and, being extremely feafick, I began to reflect 
^pon my fathcr^s good advice, and the happi- 
*.cf$ of a middle fta?c of life which he propoicd 
10 me ; rcfo!?ing, if ever I fhould be fo happy 
as to fet my feet sgain upon dry land, that I 
would return to my parents, and beg their par- 
don, and bid a final aditu to my wandering in- 
clicatioBS. 

Thcfc were m^/ thoughts during the ftorm : 
but that was no Iboncr over, but my good refo- 
lutions dccreafcd with the danger, particularly 
when my companioD, coming to me, aflccd mc 
it I was cot a little frighted by the fVorm, which 
as he cxprtfTed it, was only a cap full of wind. 
*< Come boys (fays he) turn out, and lee what 
Sne weather we have now, acd a good bowl of 
punch will drown all your paft forrows." 

In fhcrt, the punch was made, and I got fair- 
ly drunk, and ihen all my former refolutions 
and notions of refurning home vaniihed. I le 
maijied hotheaded iev&ral ('ays, until I was rour 



CRUSOE. 7 

§d up by another accident, that had very near 
put a final end to my wandering refolutioos. 

Upon the fixth day, we came to an anchor in 
Yarmouth road, where we lay winubound with 
fcveral other veflels from Newcaftle 5 but there 
being fafe anchorage, and our fhip being tight, 
and our cables good, the failors dcfpifed all dan- 
gers, and were as merry in this ftaiion as if they 
had been on ihore. But on the eighth day there 
arofc fuch a Itrong gale of wind as prevented 
our riding up the river, which ftill increafing, 
our fliip rode forccaftle in, having lliipped fevs- 
ral large fcas. 

It was not long before a general horrour fciz- 
cd the feamen ; and I heard the Eiafter cry. 
Lord have mercy upon us, we Ihall all be left i 
For my part, I kept my cabin, very fick, till ihe 
dreadful apprchcnfioas of luddcn death made 
me come upon deck^ and there I was ler f iblj 
affrighted indeed. "^ 

The Tea went mountains high, and nothing 
,was to be expected but unavoidable deflrucliou. 
Two of the fhips had alieady cut ihcir mafts by 
the board ; two more had loft their anchorsj, 
and were forced outjto the mercy of the tcmpcfr 5 
and we, to lave our lives, were forced to cut' 
away both our forcmaft and mainmaih 

It is cafy to jud^e the condition I was 10, who 
being but a frcih water failor, was in a far worfe 
cafe than aoy of th^m. Our fh)p was very 
ftrong, but, as I undciftood by them, too heavy 
laden, which mad« the failors cry out, She 
would founder. 

The ftorm continued extremely violent ; and 
in the middle of the night I could hear fotr-e 
cj yirg out, < That the ihip had fptung a leak j' 



S ROBINSON 

others, * That there was four feet water in the 
hold.' I was ready to give up the ghoft through 
fear, when oa a fudden all hands were called to 
the pump, and I among the reft. 




Whilft we were all in this confElion and dif- 
trefs, the maftcr happened to efpy fome light 
colliers, and fired a gun as a fignal of our mile- 
ry. I was not then a fallor good enough to 
know the meaning of the gun ; but I foon un- 
derftood it was a token of our extreme danger, 
and 1 muft freely own it is irapcffible for me to 
defcribe the agonies I laboured under. 

Happy it was for us that in the ftorm they re- 
garded our figoal, and with a great deal of haz- 
ard put out their long boat, and by wonderful 
ProTidence favcd our lives, but with the grcateft 
difRcuity ; for we had hardly got into the boat, 
but we faw our fliip fink to the bottom, and we 
had infallib'y been every (oul drowned if they 
h?d not come in that very nick of time to ouy 
&iiiftancc. 



CRUSOE. ^ 

It was not without a great deal of danger and 
difficulty that they recovered their own fiiip. 
However, they made a Ihift to land us at a place 
called Cromer, near Wintsrton lighthoulc ; 
from whence wc all walked in a moft miierable 
drowned condition to Yarmouth, where the good 
people furnifhed us with ccceflarics either for 
London or Hull. 

I have often thought iince, that it was very 
ftraoge that after thele great misfortunes at fct- 
ting out, I did not (like the prodigal) return to 
my father, who having heard of the fhlp's mif- 
fortune, had all the reaioa in the world to think 
I was loft. But my ill fate fiill pu£h«d me oa ia 
fpight of all the ftrong conviiiions of reafoa, 
confcience, and experience. 

After three days ftay at Yarmouth, I mst the 
young man that invited me to go on board with 
his father. I found his face and his behaviour 
very much altered ; and I found likiwife he had 
told his father who I was, and that I had taken 
this voyage only for a trial, in order to procc-d 
farther abroad hereafter. 

When the old man faw me, fays he, " Young 
man, you ought never to attempt to go to fea 
any more ; for, depend upon it, you never will 
be profperous in a fcafaring condition. You fee 
what ill fuccefs Heaven has fct before your eyes j 
and perhaps our misfortune may in feme mea- 
fure be owing to you. Pray (added he) tell ms 
truly upon whst motive you firft undertook thii 
voyage." Upon this I told him the whole ; at " 
the eq^ of which he broke out into the following 
exclamation : 

'* Ob, ye et?ernal powers f what great offence 
^avcrl committed, that I thouid take fuck a def- 



lo ROBINSON 

ptrate, abandoned wretch into my fhip, that has 
brought all thefc mifericj and misfortunes upon 
mc !" After his paIS m was a little abated, be 
proceeds — ** Young man, depend upon it, if you 
do not return, and fuboiit to your parents, 
wherever you go, the anger of God will certain- 
ly purfue you, and you will meet with nothing^ 
but ruin and difafter, until your father's words 
arc fulfiiied upon you" And To he left mc. 

And now again i had feme notion of return^" 
jng home : bat that was quickly overruled by a 
foo'ifh opinion, that if I did, my neighbours and 
acquainTance would laugh at me. So (Irange is 
the nature of youth, that though they oft^n do 
foolifh things without eicher ftiame or remorfe,. 
yet at the fame -time they are afhamed to own 
thtir folly, and repent. 

In fliort, I made the bed of my way to Lon- 
don, biingat all hazards refolved upon a voyage;, 
and being acquainted with the captain of a 
fhip, a voyage I foon heard of to the coaft of 
Guinea* Having fome money, and appearing 
like a gentleman, I did not go on board lik<e a 
common failor, but foon got fo far into the cap- 
tain's favour, that he told me I (hould be his 
msffrnate, and (hould have full liberty to carry" 
with me what mcrchandifc I fhould think fit, and 
lo difpoie of it to my own advantage. 

I was wonderfully pleaic.d with this kind offer, 
and concluded that now I had an opportunicy of 
making my fortune ; and in order to my voyage 
I fcnt to my friends for fome money to fit nric 
out ; who accordingly remitted me forty pounds, 
which I laid out in goods according to his direc- 
tions. He taught me to keep a journal, and icv- 
cral of the moft uleful parts of navigation.-- 



CRUSOE. i£ 

And iDdeed, by his affiftancc and my own in- 
duftry, in thii voyage I became boih a Tailor 
and a mcrchaot. Fait of this voyage I was ex- 
ccffively fiek of a calenture, occafioned by tb« 
heat of the climate, being in the latitude of a!- 
moft 15 degrees north of the line. However, I 
recovered, and managed my little ftock To well, 
that I brought over wuh me £ve pounds and 
nine ounces of gold duft, which produced at 
London near three bund.red pounds (lerling. 

Soon after my return, my good friend the 
captain died. Althcugh this was a veiy great 
grief to me, yet I rcfoived to go another voyage 
with his mate, who bad got the command of the 
fhip. This voyage proved a very unfucccfsful 
one. I carried with me about one hucdrcd 
pounds, and left the reft with the cap^afn's wi- 
dow, and lo to fea we wtnt. But as we were 
failing towards the Canary iflands, we found wc 
were chafed by a Salee rcver^ who in fpite of all 
tiie fail wc could make, in a (hort time came up 
with us ; and now there was no remedy but iQ 
fight or be taken. 

They had 18 guns, and our (hip but 12 5 
however, about three in the afternooo, we came 
to an engagement. Many were killed on both 
fides ; but at length being overpowered by their 
numben, we were forced to fubmit, »nd all car- 
ried into Salee. Our men were fent to the Em- 
pcrour's coure to be fold ; but the captain of the 
pirate, taking a particular likirg to me, kept me 
for his owa fiave. 

It was in this miferable condition that my fa- 
ther's words came ahefh into my remembrance^ 
and my thoughts were continually at work to 
saake ray efcape. My patron cntruftcd mc wiila 



1% ROBINSON 

the man.^gement of his garden and houfe ; and 
indeed I was not without hopes but at fomc time 
or other an opportunity might cfFcr. The worft 
of it was, 1 had no mortal to communicate my 
thoughts to ; and fo for two yearS|I could find 
nothing practicable. 

In length of time, I found my patron wai 
grown fo poor, that he could not fit out his fhip 
fes ufual J and then he ufed conftantly once or 
twice a week to go out a fifliing, taking me and 
a Morifco boy to row the boat ; and fo much 
picafed was he with my dextcriiy in fifhing, that 
he would often fend me with a Moor, his kin/- 
man, and the boy? to catch fiih for him. 

One roorcing as we were at the fport, there 
arofc fo thick a f.g that we loft our way, and 
lowing all night, when it was light we found 
ourfclves at left two leagues in the ocean ; how- 
ever wc made a (hift to get on fhore. But, to 
prevent the like misfortune for the future, my 
patron ordeied a carpenter to build a little ftate- 
room in the middle o^ the long boat, with a 
ll cc behind to ft;er, and other conveniences 
to ketfp out the weather. 

In this he wouid of^en take us out a fiftiing ; 
and one time particularly, he invited three or 
four pcrfons of diftinilion to go along with him, 
and made extraordinary preparations for their 
cotertainment : providing alfo three fuzces, wiih 
a fufficient quantity of powder and fhot, that 
thi y might have fome fport at fowling, as they 
p; ITed along the ihorc. The next morning the 
boat being in readincfs, on a fuddcn their minds 
alteved. However, my patron ordered us to go 
atd cateh a di{h of fifli •, for that he was refold- 
ed his gucfts ihould fup with him« 



■CRUSOE. 13 

And now it was that I began to think of my 
delivcraDce ; and in order to it, I pcrfuadcd the 
Moor to get fomc provifions on board, and alio 
fomc powder and (hot to ihoot curlews, which 
were very plenty in ihofc parts. I took care to 
provide privately whatever elfe I could think wa$ 
the moft nectflAry for the piefeot expedition^ 
rcfolving to make my cfcape, or pcrilh in the 
attempt. 

When we were paft the caftle, we fell to fifh- 
mg, and I flood farther into the fea ; and when 
we were got at left a league, I gave the boy the 
helm, and feized Mulev by furpnze, and threw 
him overboard : ** Mulcy (laid 1) 1 never defign- 
ed you harm, and feek nothing but my redemp- 
tion ; I know you are able to fwim to Hiore j 
but if yon offer to follow me, thai very moment 
I will ihoot you through the head :" upon which 
■he inflantly turned about, and I make no doubt 
but he got fafs to ihore. 

This aftion frighted the poor boy exceeding* 
ly ; howevrr, I fooo eafed him of his fear, by 
Celling him ** if he would be a good boy, and 
fwear by Mahomet, and the beard of his father, 
to fervc me faithfully, I would be very kind to 
him." The poor child feemed wonderfully 
pleafed with my promife, and readily confented ; 
and from that time I began to love him entirely. 

We purfued our voyage, keeping ftill on the 
Barbary coaft ; but in the dulk of the evening, 
I changed my courfe, fleering dire<Slly S. and by 
E. that we might always be near the fhore ; and 
having a pleafant gale, I found the next day, by 
three in rhe afternoon, we were 150 miles 'be- 
yond the dominions of the empcrcur of Moroc- 

B 



14 R B 1 JSr S N 

CO ; yet frill I was under dreadful apprcbcnfions 
of being rctakcD. 

I continued failing for five c^ays together, un- 
til I concluded that if any velTcl was in puriuit 
of me, I was got io far to the fouthwaF<i»tbat 
they would cot think proper to follow me any 
fanher. 

After all this fatigue, I anchored in the mouth 
of a little river ; but where I knew not, neither 
could I fee any people to make the difccvery. 
What I chiefly wanted was frefli water, which I 
refolved to go on (hore to find cut as foon as it 
grew du&i(h : but no iboncr did it begin to grow 
dark, but we heard fuch bowlings and yellings 
of wild beads and mocftcrs, that I muii needs 
own I wts exceedingly terrified. 

Poor Xury paffionateiy begged mc not to go 
on fhore that night. The boy had a great deal 
©f wit ; for which, and fomc broken Englifh 
which he had learnt among the captives of our 
nation, I was mightily pleafed wish him. Ne- 
vcrthclefs, the bowlings and beilowings were fo 
drcadfuli that we had but little reft that night ; 
and to add to our confuficn, we dilcovered one 
of the monfters makicg towards us *, upon which 
I took up one of my guns and Ihot at him ; 
whether I hit him or uot, I cannot fay — but he 
made towards the fhore, and the noifc of my 
gun increafed the ftupendous noilc of other 
nionftcrs. 

The next morning I refolved to go on fhorc, 
and at all hazards get feme frefh water. The 
poor boy would have taken one of the jars and 
fetched fomc ; but I refufcd, telling him we 
vould both go together, and take the fame fate i 
and accordingly we tcok our araiS| and two jars 
for water, and away we went. 



C R U. S E: 15 

j did not go out of the fight of the boat foe 
fear the favages Ihould come down the river m 
their Cannes, and talc-: it ajpay ; but the boy fec- 
tng a vale a linlc rartbcr, vettured to it, and re- 
turning with precipitation, I thought that he 
was cither pu fijhed by the favagcs or lome wild 
be ft ; upon which I ran towards him, refolving 
to perifli, or prefcrvc him ; but as he came near- 
j^r to mc, I faw a creature hanging at his back^ 
^likc one of our hares, but fomething larger^ 
which proved to be good aad wholelomc meat, 
and whit added raoft to our joy, the boy affured 
me that there was plenty of freih water in the 
very creek where the boat lay. 

In this place I bi-gan to conlider that the Ca- 
nary iflands and Cape de Vcrd could not be far 
off; but having no inftrument, I knew not in 
what latitude we were, or when to fland ofF to 
fea for them. My hopes were to meet fome of 
the Ergiifti trading v-iT^^ls, that would confe- 
cjoent'y take us in, and relieve u*. 

The place I was in wa^ doubtlefs that wild un- 
inhabited country that lies between the emper- 
cur of Morocco's dominior^s and the negroes 5 
it Rb::>UDds with wild beafts o' all forts, and the 
Mcors ufe- it fcr hunticg. From this I tbo'i I 
faw mount Tene .irFc: in the Canaries, and tried 
tw'ce to fteer my couife that way, but was as 
often driven back, and compelled to feek my for^ 
tuTve along the fhorc. 

One morning very early we came to an scchor 
at a fmall poiat, and the tide beginning to fl^w, 
we were preparing to go farther in ; but Xcry, 
whole youthful and penetrating eyes faw farthei.- 
than 1, deflred me to keep out to fea, or we 
Ihould be devoured. ^* For look yoec^cr, mey- 



i6 ROBINSON 

ter (faid he) and fee dat huge monfter faft aflccp' 
OQ de fide of dc hill :" he poinded to the plaqc, 
and Idifcovered a iion of prodigious fize balking 
himfelf under the fhade of a hill. ** Xury (faid 
I) you ihall go on (horc and kill him ;" the boy 
looked amazed ; ** Mc kill him (faid he) he cat 
me at one mouth," meaning mouthful. Upon 
which I took my biggeft gun, and chaFgiog if 
well, fliot at him, and broke one of his legs j 
and then with a £hot from my other gun^ I kill- 
ed him. 

But the flefh of this creature not being good 
for food, I thought this was fpending oar am- 
munition in vain ; indeed I thought the ikin 
when it W3j dry, might be of fome ufc, and fo 
determined to dea it oiS*, which took up a whole 
day to efFe^l. 

\ rom thence we went to the fouthward, re- 
volving to live fparingly on our provilions, and 
go on flvore as (e)dom as poffible, my dcfagn be- 
ing to reach Gambia or any oihcr place about 
the Cape de Verd> in hopes to meet fom^ Eu- 
ropean fhip ; and if Providence did not favour 
mc in this, my next refolution was to feek for 
the iflands, and venture myfelf among the Ne- 
groes 5 for without one of thcfe, I could have 
sio other profp.'ft but ftarving. 

As we were lailing pretty near the fhore, we 
could ailcGver feveral people upon it, looking 
after us. We could perceive they were blackfv^ 
Baked and unarmed, ail except one, who had 
Something in his hand like a ftick, which Xury 
(told me was a lance, wi»h which t>iey could kill 
at a great diftance. I was inclinable to haVc 
gcnz on fhore, bui Xury cried •* no, no." How- 
ever, i drc^ as aear lo the ihore a^ I could, and 



CRUSOE. if 

talked to them by figns, till I made thcra fenfi- 
blc I wanted fomething ; they made figns to me 
to ftop my boat, whilft two ot them ran up into 
the country, and in lefs than half an hour 
brought me two pieces of dry flefli, and fomc 
corn, which we kindly accepted *, and to pre- 
vent any fears, they laid it down, and went and 
Hood at a diftance till we had fetched it on 
board, and then came clofe up to us again. 

But while we were returning thanks to them, 
being all we could afford, two mighty creatures 
came from the mountains Jn purfuit of each oth- 
er ; they paffed the negroes with great Iwiftnefs, 
and jumped dircftly into the fea, wantonly fwim- 
miog about, as if the water had put a ftop to 
their fury. At laft one of them coming nearer 
to the boat than I dcfired, I took one of my 
guns and let fly at him and killed him. 

I cannot cxprefs the confternation of the poor 
Wegroes, upon hearing the report of the gun ; 
nor their furprize at ieeing the creature flain by 
it. I made figns to them to draw it out of the 
water by a rope, which they accordingly did 5 
and then I perceived it to be a beaunful leopard, 
which made me defirous of the Ikin 5 and the 
Negroes being no lefs defirous of the flcfii, I 
freely gave it them. As for the other (which 
was like wife a leopard) it made back to the 
mountains with prodigious fwiftnefs. 

The Negroes having furnifhed us with the beft 
provifions that the nature of the country and 
circumftances would allow, I took my leave of 
tbem ; acd in eleven days fail I came in fight of 
Cape dc Vrrd, or thofe iflands that go by that 
name ; but could not by aoy means reach either 
cf them. Upon which i grew cxtreroelv dcic^- 
B X 



iS ROBINSON 

cd ; when Xury (with a fort of terror) cried 
cut, <« Maftro, Maftro, a great (hip with a fail P' 
I foon perceived flic was a Portugueze, and, as 
I conjcdured, bound to Guinea for Negroes ; 
tipon which I drove all I could to come up with 
tthem ; but all my ftriving had been in vain, if 
thty had not happened to efpy, and ihortened 
their fail to ftcp for me. 

Encouraged by this, I fct up my anticnt, aod 
^red a gun, both as fignals of diftrefs ; upon 
which they kindly lay to, till I came up with 
them. It happened there was a Scotch failor on 
board, to whom I raade my cafe known , and 
then they took me into their fliip. 

You may well imagine my joy was exceeding- 
ly great for this uncxptded deliverance ; cfpe- 
cially when I found the captain of the fhip was 
very kind and compafficnate to me ; to whomg 
in return for hi« frieodlhip, I offered all I had, 
cphich he generouHy refuted, teUing me, his 
chriftian charity taught him better. ** Thei'c 
cfFc^lsyou have (fays he) will be a means to fup- 
port you when you come to the Brazils, and 
provide for your paiTage home to your native 
country." And indeed he acted with ftrift juf- 
ticc to me in all refpe^s. 

He bought my boat of me? and gave me his 
DOte to pay me eight pieces of eight for it when 
wc came to the Brazils. He alio gave me fixty 
•for my boy Xury, from whom I parted with 
great reluctance ; however, the boy being will- 
ing, I agreed he fhould be fct at liberty aher ten 
years fervice. 

We arrived at the bay of All Saints, after 2Z 
days fail. The good man would not take aty 
thing for my palTage. He gave jnc 30 ducaic 



CRUSOE, 19 

for the leopard's fkin, and 40 for the Hod's. 
Every thieg he cauied to be delivered ; and what 
I would fell he bought. Id fhort, I made 220 
pieces of my fmall cargo ; and with this little 
fiock, I began as it were to eieder anew into the 
world. 

He recommended me to an honeft planter, 
with whom I lived till I had informed myfelt in 
the manner of planting and making fugar -, and 
obferving the great advantages of that bulinefs, 
I rcfolved to get the money I had left behind mc 
m England remitted, and to buy a plantation. 

In (hort, I purchafed a plantation adjoining 
to an honeft Portugucze, born of Englifh par- 
cats, whom upon all occalioDs I found a very 
kind and ufeful neighbour. Oar ftocks at firft 
were both very low ; nevcrthelefs, by our induf- 
try and care, in a (hort time wc roads confidera- 
ble improvements, and began to grow rich. And 
now it was I repented the lofs of my dear boy 
Xury j Jiaving no mortal to affift me, nor ar.y 
body to converfc with but my neighbour. 

I was in fome mealur e fettled, before the cap- 
tain that took me up, left the Brazils. One day 
I went to him and told him what flrock I had 
left in London, and dcfircd his affiftancc in get- 
ting a remittance : to which the good gentle- 
man readily coi:{8:>ted, but would have me only 
fend for half, leaft it fhould mifcarry, and li \z 
did the reft would fupport me. So taking let- 
ters of procuration from me, he afTared me he 
would lerve to the utmoft of his power ; and in 
truth he kept his word, and was extremely kind 
to me on all occaiions. 

And now my wealth began to incrcafe apace ; 
sad in this ftatc I might have lived very happy^ 



ao ROBINSON 

if my ambition and roviog iDclination had not 
had too great power over me. I had now lived 
fome years in the Brazils ; and I not only learnt 
the language, but contracted an acquaintance 
with feveral of tile mod eminent merchants at 
St. Salvadore, to whom relatiog the manner of 
my two voyages to Guinea, and the great advan- 
tages of trading in thofe parts, they gave fuch 
earneft attention to what I faid, that three came 
one morning, and told me that they had a mind 
to fit out a Ihip to go to Guinea, and if I would 
go their fupercargo, and manage the trade, I 
ihould have an equal (hare, without putting in 
any flock. 

This I took to be fo fair a propofal, that upon^ 
condition they would look after my plantation 
in my abfence, I confentcd to it •, and accord- 
ingly, a (hip being fitted out» and all things in 
readinefs, wc fet fail firft o5 September 1695, 
{\eering northward upon the'^coaft of Africa. 
But many days we had not failed, before wc 
were overtaken by a violent ftorm, which laflcd 
12 days fucccffively : when the weather cleared, 
wc found ourfclves 1 1 degrees in the northern 
latitude, upon the coaft of Guinea ; upon which 
the captain gave reafoas for returning, which £ 
oppofed, counielliig him rather to ftand away 
for Barbadoes, where I judged we might arrive 
in fifteen days. So altering our courfe we fteer*- 
ed wcftward, in order to reach the Leeward 
Iflands ; and here it was we were overtaken by 
a terrible tempeft. 

In this great diftrefs, one of our men cried 
out, " land ! land V* Wheo» looking out that 
very moment, we found out fhip was ftruck 
»poa the fandi and expeded wc ihculd fink^ and 



CRUSOE. zt 

that we fhould be all immediately loft. Wc 
knew not where we were diiven and what was 
worfe, were cerraia the ihip couid cQt hold out 
many moments longer. 

Whilft we weic looking upon one another^ 
cxpe^ing death every mom<;Qt, the mate, aHift- 
cd by ihe crew, hauled out th; long baif, and 
I [ of us commi ted ourlelves to the fary of the 
fea, and God's mercy. We (ooo round that (bii 
laft effort was to no puipole j tor the tcnapctt 
was fo violfnr, and the tei ran f? very hirih that 
it was impofliblc for the boat to live. When we 
had been driven about a league, comes a prodi- 
gious wave aftern, and overiei us in an iuftan'^ 
fo that we had hardly time to call upon God to 
receive our fou's 

When men are ftsuggling with th^ p^ngs of 
death, they are con-iaonly inf^nlii'.: : but the 
cafe was quite dtfFuent with mc ; tir while I was 
overwhelmed with tbe water, i hii the m oft 
dreadful appre'^erfi :ns, and the joys of Hcavea 
and the tO(finents of he-il were alternately in my 
thoughts, and yet ft 1 I k^p: ftriving on, whi.e 
all my compaoi ns were loft, tiii the wave had 
fpent itself, i>nd. re'iring» had throt^n mc upoa 
the fhore, h f d<'?.d with the great q laniiry of 
water I had taken in during my itiugging j 
however, I got uoon my feet as faft as I Gou'd, 
leaft another wave fluuid carry me b. ck : but 
notwithftandiog I made all the fpced I could, 
yet another vv.ive cam , which dalhed me againft 
a piece of a i ock in fuch a urious ma incr that 
it mai'e mc funlclcfs : however (recovering a 
little before tbe if turn of the next wave, which 
wou^d doubilei's h^ve carried me off) i held faft 
hold of th; rock tiil ths fucccedm^ wave abatsd. 



t^2 ROBINSON 

and then I made fliift lo reach the main had; 
where, tired and a m )tt fpent, I f«t do*n con- 
templating the manucr of mjr prelent prcfcrv- 
atioQ. 

After I had returned my thanks to almighry 
God for this wonderful preleivaiion., I began to 
look about me, to confider what place I wai in, 
and what was next to be done In order to my 
future fubCftei^ce. \ cou)d neither fee houfc 
Dor people -, wet and hungry, and nothing to 
help me, not fo much as a weapon to defend me 
againft the wild bcafls. In Ihort, I had nothing 
in the world but a knife, a fhort tobacco pipe, 
and 21 box half full of tobacco ; and what was 
worfCi night coming on, I was undsr very great 
apprehecfionf of being devoured by wild beaftf 
that 1 beard howling and roaring round about 
me ; fo that I had no prorpeifk but to cxpcifl: an- 
other kind of death more terrib'e than that I 
had fo lately efcaped. In this diftrcfs, I walked 
about a furlong into the country to feek frefh 
water, which 1 luckily happened upnn ; fo> tak« 
ing to a tree, I fcated myfelf fo that I could not 
fall, and there I ilept till morning. 

It was day light before I left my apartment in 
the tree ; when, coming down, and looking 
round, I perceived that the tcmpcfl was ceafed, 
and that th« fh'p was driveii to the rock where 
I efcaped ; and looking further, I faw the fhip'i 
boat lyiag ab: lat a mile to the right, where the 
waves had cafl^ her up. 

I hoped to have got to the boat 5 but the wat- 
er birtween that and the fhore rendered that im- 
pra£licabie. So I turned again towards the fljip, 
in hopes to get fomething from thence tor mr^ 
prcfent fubfiftcnce. 



c n u s E. 23 

At all hazards I rciolvcd to get to the £hip ; 
and fo, ftripping, leaped into the water, and 
fwimmiDg round her, I had the good fortune to 
cfpy a rope hacging fo low down that I could 
reach it : by the help of which, with feme diffi- 
culty, I got into the forccaft!e. Here I found 
that the (hip was bulged, her head lifted up 
againlt a bank, and her ftern almoft in the wat- 
«r ; ail her quarter, and what was there, were 
free and dry j and I found the provifions in 
good order, and wanted noihing but a boat to 
carry what I had occafion for. 

Neceffity, which i$ the mother of invention, 
put a project into my head. There were on 
board fcvcral iparc yards, a fpare topmaft or 
two, and three large Ipars of wood. With thefe 
I fell to work, flinging as many of them over- 
board as I could manage, and tied them toge- 
ther that they might not drive away. When 
this was done, I tied them together in form of a 
raft, and laid three or four fhort pieces of plank 
on them crciTways. I found it would bear me> 
bat very little weight bcfides ; and fo, to ftrength- 
en my raft, I cut a topmafl: into three or four 
lengths, and added them to it ; and then I con- 
fidcied what was mod proper to load it with, it 
being incapable of carrying a tolerable weight. 

At firil, I laid upon it all the boards 1 cculd 
get, and then I lowered down three of the fca- 
men's chcfts, and fi led them with provifiocs of 
all forts, i found cloaths enough, but then 
Itock no more than my prefect occalions re- 
quired. 

My concern was chitfly upon tools to work 
with, and fire arms s.nd ammunition ; and ac- 
cordingly [ found in ^y feaich, the carpenter's 



24 n B I N S N 

cbeft, and in the great cabin fome fire arms and 
ammuniji^n, all which I put on board my raft 5 
acd fo, with two broken osrs, &c. I put to fea. 

Though every thing at fi:ft fcemcd to faTour 
my dcfign, >ct, after I had failed about a mile, I 
found on a 1* ddcn the fore parts of my raft run 
agiouod, fo that it was with the greateft diiHcuf- 
ty imaginable I kept my cargo tight together ; 
and indeed it 1 had noi b?en txtremely diligent 
and careful, all had been \o^ av d funk into the 
f.a : but atter fome time, Piovidcnce fo ordered 
it, that at the rifi >^ of the water my raft float* 
ed ag<j}n, and fo I happrly landed my effefts. 

Noi far frcm the pace where I landed, which 
w:$ at h- mouth of a little cave, I difcoveted a 
vc^y high hill, funounded with a great fnany 
little cncs ; and thither refolved to go aqd 
view the country, and fee what place was prop- 
-er fcT rac to fix my habitation in \ and accord- 
ingly, arming myfclf with a fowling piece, a pif- 
tol and fome ammunition, I afcended the moun- 
tains — and there found I was in an ifland, be- 
ing furrounded by the fea. It feeaied to be a 
barren uncultivated country, and only inhabited 
by wild beads. 

Returning afterwards to my raff, I got my 
goods on fiiore ; and being very much afraid of 
the wild beads, I made a fort of fence or barri- 
cade about it, which I thought might in fome 
meafurc fecure me againft the dangers I was 
apprehcnfivc of ; and fo that night I flept very 
comfortably, and the next morning when I 
awaked, 1 reiolved to go again to the ftiip to get 
fuch other neccfiarics in as I had moft occa- 
fion for, before another ftorm came, when I 
knew fhe muft be dafhcd to pieces. 



CRUSOE. 25 

In order to this fccond expedition, I meoded 
my raft where I found it dcfcdlivc, and brought 
away from the (hip a great many other tools, 
cloaths, ammufiitioo, and whatever elfe I tho^t 
moft neccffary tor my future prcfcrvation and 
fiibfiftence. Then I made hafte to (horc, fear- 
ing the wild beads might come and devour what 
I had already landed. 

When I had landed all the fecond cargo, I fell 
immediately to work to make me a little tent^ 
acd fortified it in the befl manner I could, 10 
fecurc myfelf as much as poiGble agalnft any fud- 
den attempt either from man or beaft. After 
this, I charged my fire armvy blocked up the 
doors, and laid the bed I had brought from the 
fiiip upon the ground, and flept as comfortably 
as though I had been in my native country. 

But ftill the thoughts of my future fubfiftcncc 
atnd prefervation were uppermoft in my mind ; 
and therefore I went to the fhip as often as pof- 
fiWc, and brought away every thing I thought 
could be of any uie ; and indeed had fo (lored 
myielf, that I judged I was tolerably provided fot 
a confiderable time. 

I had now been eleven days in (he iflaod, and 
as many times on board the fhip ; as I was going 
the twelfth time, the wind began to rife ; how- 
ever, I ventured at low water, and with fome 
difficulty reached the fhip, and rummaging the 
cabins I found feveral other neceflariss, and 
among other things above 36I. fterl. in pieces of 
eight : which, confideriog my prefcot circum- 
(lances, I concluded was of fmall value to me ; 
however, I wrapped it up in a canvas rag ; and 
perceiving the ftorm began to intreafe, with all 
that I was able to carry with me I made the bc# 
of my way to the fhore. C 



a6 ROBINSON 

That Dight I flept very contentedly in my lit- 
tie fortification ; but when I looked out in the 
morning, I found that the (hip wat loft. I was 
very much concerned at this upon my thoughts ; 
but when I refiefled I had done every thing in 
my power to recover what was ufeful to me, I 
comforted myfelf in the bef^ manner I couldi 
and fubmitted myfelf entirely to the will of Pro- 
vidence. 

And now my thoughts were wholly taken up 
how to defend and preferve myfelf from the fav- 
ages and wild beafts, which I was extremely ap- 
prehenfive might be in fomr part or other of this 
ifland i and at one time I thought to dig me a 
cave, at another to build me a tent ; at length I 
refolved to do both, and accordingly contrived 
io the following manner. 

I confidered the ground where I was, was 
mooriihy and that I had no convenicncies for 
frcfh water ; and therefore I detcrmiDcd to find 
a place more healthful and convenient ; and, to 
my great comfort and fatisfadlioo, I foon found 
one that anfwered my expc^ation. 

The f lace was a little plain near a riling hill ; 
the front being as fteep as the iide of a houfe. 
On the fide of this rock was a little hollow piecct 
refembling the entrance of a cave ; jufl befoie 
this place X refolved my tent fhould fland. This 
plain was a hundred yards broad, and twice as 
long, with a pleafant defccnt every way to the 
feafide. After this 1 drew a fcmicircle, contain- 
ing about ten yards in the diameter ; and when 
that was done I drove a row of Oakes not above 
iiz inches from each other ; and by the help of 
cny cables which I had brought from the fhip» 
aod fuch other mateiiali %$ I made ufeof, I made 



CRUSOE, 27 

a fort of regular fortification — which I conclu- 
ded n as in a great meafure impregnable againfk 
any fudden attempts either of lavages or wild 
beaiTr • and, for my better fecurity, I would have 
no d . , but came iu by ihc help of a ladder, 
which ! uiade for that purpofe. 

Int:> this little garrifon 1 carried all my ftore and 
ammunitioni and afterwards continued to work. 
I not only made me a little cellar, but likewKe 
made my fortification ftronger by the earth and 
ftones I dug out of the rock. One day a (how- 
er of rain falling, attended with thunder and 
lightning, I was under terrible apprehenfioB? 
Icaft my poi»dcr fhould take ire, and not only 
hinder me from killing fowls, which were nccef- 
iary for my fubiiftence, but likewife blow mc 
up and my garrifon at once ; the quantity I had 
by me confif^fd of 150'b. weight at left. Hav- 
ing thus eftabliflaed myfelf as a king of theiflandi 
I went every day with my gun to fee what I 
could kill that was fit to eat, and ioon perceived 
there were great numbers ot goats, but they were 
fhy J however watching them very narrowly, I 
happered to (hoot a fhe goat as (he was fuckling^ 
her young one — which, not thinking her dan\ 
killed, followed me home to my enclofure, I 
lifted the kid over the paljs, and would willingly 
have kept it alive — but the poor creature rcfu- 
iing to eat, I was forced to kill it for my fabfift- 
cucc. 

Thus, entering into as odd a ftate of life as 
ever befel an unfortunate man, I was continu-^ 
ally rcfie£Ving upon the mifery of my condition i 
till at length confidericg there was no remedy* 
2ud that I was obliged to make the beft of a bad 
aaas-ket, and withal receding upon the many 



28 ROBINSON 

turns of Provideocc in my particul&r prefervar 
tion, I grew more fcdate and temperate. 

It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of 
September when I firft landed on this ifland. — 
about twelve days after, fearing I ihould loie 
my reckoning of time, nay even forget the Sabf 
bath, for want of pen, ink and paper, I carved it 
with a knife upon a large poft, in large letters^ 
fetting it up in the fimilitude of a crofs on the 
fhore where I landed, viz. " I came to fhore^ 
Sept. 30, 1650." Every day I cut a notch on the 
fides of this fquarc poft, and that for the Sab- 
bath was as long again as the ie(V, and every firft 
day of the month I kept my calendar, in weekly^ 
monthly and yearly reckoning of time. But had 
I made more ftrifl fearch (as I afterwards did) 
I need not have fet up this mark ; for I found 
among the parcels belonging to the gunner^ 
carpenter, and captain's mate, thofe very thingi 
I wanted, where I got not only pens and iok» 
builikewife Tea compafTes, and other mathema- 
tical iniVruments ; and, above all the refi, three 
Englifii Biblcf, with fcveral other good Engliflj. 
bookf, which I carefully laid up, in order to 
make ufc of thera at proper intervals. But here 
I cannot but ca!l to mind our having a dog and 
two cats on board, whom I made inhabitants 
with me in my caftle. But, notwithfianding i 
was thus piennfully fupplied, I ftill wanted feve- 
ral other nccciTirics, as needles and thread, and 
more particularly a pickaxe and (hovel for re- 
moving the earth, &c. 

It was a full year before I had finiOied my lit- 
tle fortification : and after I had done that in the 
bed manner the natuic of the place and my cir- 
uimftanccs would allow^ I begaa to grow a \iitXo 



CRUSOE, '^f 

more familiar with my folitudc, and to coDfider 
of the bcft methods poffibic to render my defo- 
late date as eafy as I could. And here it was £ 
began the following journal. 

JOURNAL. 

SEPTEMBER 30, 1650, *I was forced by 
Ihipwrcck upon this defolate ifland, whicii 
1 called the Ifland of Defpair. The next day I 
fpent in reflecting on the mifcrablencis of my 
condition, which prcfcnied to me nothing but 
death, and the worft of deaths too, "vrz. either to 
be ftarved for want of viftuals, or to be devoured 
by wild bcafts. 

Owlobcr I . To my great comfort I difcovcrcd 
the fhip driven to the fhore, from whence I had 
feme hopes that when the ftorm was abated I 
might recover fomething towards my prefent 
fubfiftencc 5 efpecially confidcring I obferved the 
fhip to lie in a great mealure upright, and one 
fide of her pcrfcflly dry ; upon which I fell im- 
mediately to wading over the fands, and with 
great difficulty and danger I got on board. To 
the 1 4th of this month, I fpent in making voyages 
backwards and forwards to and from the fhip, 
the weather being all the while very wet and 
uncertain. 

OiSl.'ZO. My raft with my goods was ovcrfet ; 
moft of which however I recovered at low water. 

Oft. 25. It blew a fort of a ftorm, and rained 
hard, io that the fhip dafhed to pieces^ and noth- 
ing of her was to be fccn but the very hull at 
low water ; and this day I thought it proper to 
fccure the cffcfts I had prcferved, from ihc 
weather. 

C 2 



30 k O B 1 N S N 

OOi. 26. I wandered about to try if I could 
^nd a place proper to fix my abode ; and ac- 
cordingly towards the eveoing, I found out a 
irock, where I judged I might ere-£t a wall and 
fortify myfelf. 

November i. I placed my tent by the fide of 
a rock, and took up my lodgmg in a hammocki 
very contentedly, for that night. 
^ Nov. 2. I made a fence about my tent with 
timber^ che&s, and boards. 

Nov. 3. I ihot two wild fowls, which proved 
very good meat ; and in the afternoon I made 
me a fort of a table. 

Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the 
morning I walked out for an hour or two, and 
afterwards worked till about two, then ate nry 
dinner of fuch provifions as I had. After din- 
ner I commonly flept an hour or two ; and the 
weather being extremely hot, I could not go to 
work till towards the cvcniDg.> 

Nov. 5. I went out with my gun and the 
dog I had broCi^ht out of the fhip. I (hot a 
wild cat — but her flcfh was good for nothing — 
only I prcferved her fkin. I faw a great flock of 
wild birds ; and was wonderfully terrified at the 
fight of fome monftrous fcals which I faw on the 
fand, but as they faw me they made off to fea. 

Nov. 9. I finiflicd my table. From the yrh 
to the 1 2th, the weather being fair, 1 worked 
very hard : only I refted upon the i ith — which 
according t04])y computation, I took to be Sun* 
day. 

Nov. 13. The weather was very wet and 

Hormy, with thunder and lightning. On ihc 

14th, I made provifion to fecure my powder — 

v^hich I perfcBcd on the I4ih and i^th. The 



CRUSOE. 31 

zythy I began to dig upon the rock, but was pre- 
vented for want of proper implements : and on 
the iSih I found a tree, the wood of which was 
very hard — and out of that with the greateil dif* 
£culty I made me a fort of fpade — in doing it, 
i atmofl fpoiled my axe^ which might have been 
of ill confequence. 

Nov. 23. When I had got my tools into the 
bef^ order I could, I {pent all my time to the 
loth of December in finifiiing my cave^ : and lay 
'm my tent every night, unlefs the weather was fo 
wet that I could not lie dry — and withal I had 
fo well thatched it over with flags and the leaves 
of treesj &c. that I thought myfelf tolerably fe- 
cure. -* * ' 

Dec. 10. I liad no foooer finiflied my habita- 
tion, but a great part of the roof fell in upon 
me, and it was a great mercy I had not perilhed 
in the ruios : and indeed k gave me a great deal 
of trouble before I repaired it effcftually — and 
after I had done what I could, I fpent fcvcral 
days in putting my things in oc4*?r-^and had va- 
riety of weather to the 17th, 

Dec. 27. In roy rounds I chanced to meet 
ibme goats. I {hot one of them, and lamed an- 
other, which I led home, and bound up its leg — 
in a little time it grew well, and was fo tame and 
familiar that it followed me every where like a 
dog, which put the notion into my head to bring 
^ip thefe wild creatures as often at I could take 
them alive, that I might have flock to fubfifl up- 
^n in cafe I ihould live after my powder was 
cxhaufled. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather was fo very 
4iot, that I was forced to keep within my fheltcr. 

January i * Though the weathcf continued 



3* n S I N S N 

very fultry, yet neccffity compelled me to go 
abroad wiih my gun. Id the valleys I found 
great numbers of goats ; but they were fo very 
fiiy, I could by no means come at one of them. 
From Jan. 3, to the 13th, my bufinefs was to 
jearch the ifiaod, and to fioiih my wall. In my 
iearch I found great numbers of fowls, much 
like our Englifli pigeons. I {hot fome of them, 
which proved excellent food. And now it was 
a providential thing happened — which was thus j 
Whilft I was rummaging my moveables, what 
ihould fall into my hands but a bag, which I 
fuppofe might be made ufe of to hoW corn for 
the fowls in the fhip. I purpofed to make ufe 
of it to hold fome of the powder, and fo (hook 
out the duft and ioofe corn upon one fide of the 
rock, not in the left futpe^ling the confequence. 
The rain had fallen in great quantities a few 
days before : and the month after, to my great 
furprifc, I difcovered fomething fpring up very 
green and fiourilhing ; and as I came daily to 
view it, I faw fcvcral ears of green barley of the 
very fame flze and fhapc of thofe in England. 

My thoughts were very much confufcd at this 
unexpected fight : and I muft own I had the van- 
ity to imagine that Providence had ordered this 
on purpofc for my fubfiftcnce. Great were my 
acknowledgements and thankfulnefs to almighty 
God, for Lis mercies to me in this delolatc 
place 5 which were infinitely heightened, when, 
at the fame time, I obferved fome rice (talks, 
wonderfully green and flourifhing ; which made 
me conclude here muft confequently be more 
corn in the ifland \ and accordingly I fpent fev- 
cral days in fearching the rock 5 when at length 
it came into my mind that I had ihaken the bag 



CRUSOE. 3J: 

oo the very fpot where thofc blades of corn were 
growing. 

It was about the latter end of June before 
ihefe ears of corn grew ripe ; aod then [ laid 
them up exceeding carefully, expc^ing I Ihould 
one day reap the advantage of this little crop — 
which I ufed all my induflry to improve ; and 
yet it was tour years before I could eat any bar* 
ley bread, and much longer before I had any 
benefit from my rice. After this, with indefati- 
gable care and induftry, I finished my wall, or- 
dering it fo that I had no way to go into my 
fortrefs but by a ladder. 

April i6. I fioifhcd my ladder, and went up 
it) aod pulled it after me, as I always did ; aod, 
in truth, had fo well fortiHcd myfelf, that I wa» 
as I thought, indifferently well fecured againft 
any furprife ; neverthelefs as I was ooe day fit- 
ring in my cave, there happened fuch a fuddcn 
earthquake, that the roof of my little fortrefs, 
that I had finilhed with (o much labour, came 
tumbling down upon my head ; upon which^ 
with the grcateft amazement, I ran to my ladder, 
and got out of my cave, and faw the top of a 
vaft rock fall into the fca, and expcftcd every 
moment 'he whole ifland would be fwallowed up. 

In this aff ight I remained for fome moments, 
till I perceived the fury of the motion bagan to 
abate ; but it was not long befors I was under 
new apprchcnfions, en account of a violent tem- 
pelt that attended it. This dreadful ftorm con- 
tinued for about three hours, and then followed 
fuch a heavy rain, that my tent was quite over- 
flowed ; upon which I concluded my habitation 
was ill lituated, and determined, as foon as pof- 
fi-blCj. to build me olg in a more ccnvenicat place. 



34 'ROBINSON 

April 29, 30, were fpcnt in contriving how, 
and in what manner, I (hould fix my new abode, 
and here I was under the greateft concern, ha- 
ying no tools fitting for (uch an undertaking ^ 
however, I fpent fevctal days in whetting and 
grinding my tools. 

May t . As I was walking along the Tea fide, I 
found a barrel of gun powder and divers other 
pieces of the (hip, which the violence of the late 
itorm had thrown on the fand. I iaw likewife the 
remaining part of the ihip, thrown by the tem- 
ped, very near the ihore, and refolvcd to ^et ta 
her as foon as I could , but at that time I found 
it imprafticable. 

I continued to work upon the wreck till the 
24th, and every day recovered fomething that 
would be of ufe to me, and got together lo ma- 
ny pUnks, and fo much iron, lead, and other 
neccfiaries, that, if I had had tools and fkilt, I 
might have built me a boat ; which was a thing 
I very much wanted. 

June 16. As I was flroling towards ihe fea^ 
I found a large turtle : The 17th I fpcnt m 
cooking it : I found in her 70 eggs, and the 
fieih the mofl delicous meat that ever I tailed. 
The i8ih, I ftaid within the whole day, there 
being a continual rain, with dorms of wind and 
lightning. 

From the 19th to the 27ih of June, I was ve* 
ry fick, and had got a terrible ague, which oftea 
held me for nine or ten hours with extreme vi- 
olence. On the I Stht ^ began to recover a little^ 
but was very rcdleis in the night, and was worfc ^ 
at often as I laid my eyes togetherv I was tor- 
mented with hideous dreams and dreadful ap* 
psLritiont^ It is knpo^blc for me to eiipcefs \hc 



CRUSOE. 35 

agonies I was uoder by thefe repeated admoBi- 
tions, as I took them to be. My father's advice 
and reproof came ioto my mind, whether I 
would or not, and (hocked me exceedingly, aod 
would often make me reflect that the juftice of 
God followed me, and that fevere puniihrnent 
was juftly owing to my^iifobedience and wicked 
Ufe. 

June 28. I flept pretty well moft part of the 
night, which refre{hed me very much *, in the 
morning I ate a bifcuit and drank fome water 
mixed with rum ; I boiled a piece of goat's fleih 
for my dinner, but ate very little, and at night I 
tupped upon three cf my turtle^ eggs ; aiter 
fupper I attempted to w^lk out with my gun, 
but found my (elf too wcuk, and fo returned to 
my habitation. 

Here confcience flew in my face, reprehend- 
ing me as a blafphemer and a reprobate ; for 
faying in my agonies, TWhat have I done, to 
be didingui(hed in all this fcene of mifery."—- 
Methought I heard a voice anfwering me, 
•* Ungrateful wretch ! dare you aflc what you 
have done ? Look upon your paft Ufe, and 
then alk ihyfclf, why thou waft not drowned, in 
Yarmouth road, or killed by the Sallce Rovers ? 
Why not devoured by wild beafts in the defarts 
of Africa, or drowned hciC with the reft 06 
thy companions ?'' 

Struck dumb by thefe fevcre refleiflions, and, 
fearing the return of my ague, I began at length 
to coofider what was moft proper ic be done, 
to free mylelf from this diftenaper ; and, having 
heard that the Brafllians ufe tabacco for moft 
of their, dileafes, I relolved to try this experiment. 

I tried fcveral ways with the tobacco ; firft I 



S6 ROBINSON 

took a leaf and chewed it, which made me Tery 
fick, and almoft (lupiiSed me ; then I fteep'd it 
in rum, refolving to take a good dofe of it when 
I went to bed, and then I put fome into a pan 
and burnt it, holding my nofe over the fmoak 
as long as I could endure it without foffbcating* 
After thefe feveral operations i fell into a fweat 
and flept quietly and well for thirteen or four* 
teen hours ; and when I got up in the morning 
1 found my fpirits revived, my ftomach much 
better^ and I grew exceedingly hungry, which I 
had not been for fome time pa'ft : In fhort, I 
mifTed my fit the next day, and found that I eve- 
ry day grew ftrooger and better. 

The 30th. I ventured out with my gun, and 
killed a fowl not much unlike abrandgoofe, but 
did not eat of the flefh, chufing rather to dine 
\ipon two or three more of ttiy turtle^ cggj. In 
the evening I renewed my medicine : notwith- 
landing which, I had a littie fpicc of my fit the 
next day 5 and, therefore, on the 2d of July, I 
took my medicine as I did at firil *, and on the 
14th, which was the day I expected the return 
of my fit, the ague left me, which was no imall 
joy to me ; and indeed the goodnefs of God on 
this occafion, affe6:ed me io fenfibly that I fell 
on my kaees and returned thanks in a moft de- 
vout and folcmn manner. 

July 4. I walked out with my gun : but my 
diflempcr having reduced me very low, I could 
go but a little way at a time *, for, the experiment 
having weakened me exceedingly, I was able to 
walk but a very fhort way at once. I had now 
been on the ifland about ten months — and all the 
while had not feen either man or woman. And 
,fo, growing better, I began to think myfelf folc 



CRUSOE. 37 

OQODarcli of the ifls ; and, growing ind'ff:r« 
tntlf well, I rclolvcd to take a tour about the 
idsy in order to view the extent of my do- 
minions, aad to make what difcovciics 1 
could. 

On the *5th I bfgan my Journey ; and, a- 
morg other things, 1 fcund a little brcok of 
running waffr ; on the banks of w?>ich were 
many meadows covered with grafj : I law 
fcveral ftalks of tobacco, and other pUo»s I 
Luew nothii g of; among the reft I sound 
feme lugar canes fcverai plants of aloe w?.nds 
&c. With thefc di(cov?ric$ I r .umed w«il 
fatiified to my linlc cattle, & fl pt that eight 
very comfortably. 

The next day, goirg the fame way, and far- 
ther than before, I found the couotry ^uU of 
wood, and exceedingly pleafant and d light- 
fu?« The melons lay upon the ground ia 
great quantities, and cluftcrs of grapes hung 
upan the trees. You may imagine I was 
glad of this difcoveryt yet ate very fparingly, 
left I ihould throw myfelf into a ftux or 
fever. 

The night coming on, I clirribed up rato a 
tree, and having fixed myfelf as fecurely as 
poffible, flept veiy comfortably, though it 
was the firft; time I had ever Iain out of my 
habitation. When the morning came, i pro- 
ceeded with the greatcft plcafuic about four 
miles farther ; and at the end of a valley, I 
fcund a fpring of excellent water •, and now 
I refolved to lay in as much of the fruit aj 
pciHblc. 

July i8. Having prepared two bag!r,t 
cetufBcd thither iigain, in order to bric^g 
D 



38 ROBINS ON 

home to my caftic as much of the fevcral 
forw o( fruits as I could, rhat I might have a 
(lock by me agiioft I ihould want it. And 
cow I began to reflect that this part of this 
ifland was infinitely the beft to inhabit in ; 
but then I thought at the fame timej that if 
I removed from my prefent place of abode I 
ihould looie the profpcdt of the fea \ and fo, 
if providence ihould order a (hip on that 
coaft, I ihould lo(e all poflibility of deliver- 
ance. However the place wai fo delightful^ 
I rcfolved to build mc a kind of bower, which 
took me up the remainder of July. 

H<rc it was that I dried my grapes, which 
I afterwards carried to my oM mibitaiion, for 
a wJDicr fupply. On the 14th of Auguft 
the rain began to fail whh great violence, 
which made roc judge it was proper to re- 
tire to my caftle for ihelter. The rain con- 
tiaucd to fall, more or tcf$» liil the middie of 
October, and fomctimes with th«t viohnce, 
thai for fcvcral days I could not ftir out of 
my cave, till I was conllrained to it by the 
pufc want of food. I went out twice 5 th? 
iirft time I ihoi a goat, and the fecond tims I 
found another turtle, as large as the former, 

Scpumbcr 30 C>iftiog up the notches 
on the pod which amounted to 365, I con- 
cluded this to be the anniverfary of my land- 
ing. And, afrer I had returned thank* for 
my wotideriui prskr^ation in this dcfolatc 
iiUnd I wtot to bed and ilcpt very cOmfoi' 
tably. 



C R U S Z. 39 



f 

'•■4 






Before I proceed further in roy Journal. I 
muft take the liberty to put the reader in 
mind of the barley and rice : I had faved a* 
bout thirty ftalks of the former and twenty 
of the latter 5 and cnnciudicg the feafon to 
be proper, I ^^a^ up fome ground with my 
^codcn ipadc, and fowsd it ; which at the 
proper time grew up, ar.d aiifwercd my cx- 
pe^atioDS. 

The wet weather was no foooer gone, bnt 
tny incV'nation Ud mc ai*ain to \hc bower I 
had built on the other iide of the iiland, 
which I found whole and entire as I had left 
ii, s:nd the ftakes all growing much after the 
rsamre of our willowf, which in time made 
me a noble fcpce, ?.% I £hal! have occafion tc 
obfcrve more panicularly hereafter. 



4© n OB I N S N 

And now I conceived that the fcafoni of 
the year might be divided ioio wet and dry, 
and not into Summer and Winter, as in Eu* 
f ope ; as thus : 

r February") 
Half i March > wet, the Sun coming near 
^ April J the Equinox. 



r April 



Half < June J-dry, the Sun getting South 

i July I of the line. 

A. Auguft 

r Auguft 1 
Half <S/pt. > wet, the Sun being come 

COaober 3 back. 

JOftober ^ 
Ncvember | 
December f dry, the Sun running 
J^nu^ry | So^ith of the line. 
February J 
And, as the wind continued to blow, the 
wet fcafcns wculd continue cither longer 
or fhortcr. Afccr I had made thefc and the 
like vtbfcrvaMon*, I always took care to pro- 
vide nectflaiies, ihat i might flay within dur- 
ing the werocfs of the weather, aod in that 
time I to k care to make me Aich tools as I 
moO: wanted, 

Th'- fi i\ hiog I attempted was to make 
tne a b^fkct, which after a^uch labour and 
diffiouiry, I cfTe^ttd ; but the two things I 
moft Wit led were uft'rty out of my power, 
viz ^ome c^lks to ho d my J'quois, andimall 
po's to boil and iifw my meat, and alfo a 
tobacco pipe, foi which I at lad found out a 
rsmv-dy. 



CRUSOE, 41 

After the weather grew fair my farther 
refolutioQ of viewing the whole ifland toek 
place ; accordingiyy taking aay dog and my 
gUD, and other nccciTirics proper, I fet for- 
ward 5 ackd having palfcd the vale where my 
bower ilaod, I came within fight of the lea 
lying to the W. and when it was clear day, 
I could difcovcr land, but could not tell 
thither it was an ifland or a continent ; lci- 
iher could I tell what place this might be, 
only I thought it was ia America, and con- 
fcqaently that part of the country that lies 
betweto the Spanifli tcrriiories and the Bra- 
ft's, which abound wiih cannibals, who de- 
vour huiinao kind. In viewing this part of 
the iflind, 1 found it was much more pleafaot 
and fruitful than where I had pitched my 
tent. Here were great numbers of parro??, 
and with great difficulty I got one of them 
which 1 carried home with me, but it was a 
^reat wliilc before I could tame it and bring 
: to rpeak, even fo much as to call mt by 
jamci 




Id the low grounds I luucd great r 
>f g'-ats, fGX<ii, h«r£s, & abuQd.?DCC 
jf different kiud*, wi*h great 



•jTV 



41 ROBINSON 

grape » and other excellent fruits : id tbis ex- 
pedition I did not travel above two milsj a 
day, beiDg dcfirous to make what dilcovcricf 
I could. When I came to the iea (hore, I 
was amazed to fee it cx^ieediagly beautiful, 
and fo full of excellent fifh. But though 
this journey was fo delightful to me, yet my 
fecret inclination led me to ray old habita- 
tion ; fo, after I had fet up a fort of land 
raark for my guide for the future, I conclud- 
ed to return back by a different way than 1 
came ; and as I was making the bcft of my 
way, my dog happened to furprife a kid, 
which I rcfcued from him, and led it to my 
bof7cr, In order to try if I could raifc a breed 
which would be of grear uie to me. 

After I had been about a month upon this 
expedition I returned to my little caltie, and 
repolcd myf^lf wish great pleafuic ia my 
hammockt and continued a wetk within to 
reft And rcfrefh myfelf. 

And new I began to think of the kid I 
had ie/t in the bower, and rcfolved iittmedi- 
atjly to fetch it home. When 1 arrived there 
I found it almoil: ftarvcd *, when feeding it 
V7i h bianchcs of fuch (hrubs as i could fiod^ 
the poor crearurc io gratitude for its ddiver- 
ancej followed me as naturally as my dog, 
quite home to my caftie, which I afterwards 
kept as one of w (^omefticks. 

The wei feafcn bf ing c ^me, f kept myfelf 
W!tbin ; and on the 30th of Septwmbe?- being 
tbt third year of my abod^ in this iilinJ, I 
paid my folemn a':knovy)ccguDentf to :\lm gh- 
ty God f"'f ny piefci vaiion, and en^er* ;iacd 
myfelf Willi a Hvfld or rsdedioiis upojD suf 



CRUSOE, 45 

prefeQt aod former cocditioDS ; and as I was 
One moroing fadly ponderiog upon my prcf- 
est (late, I happened to open my biblci when 
I fixed my eyes oo ihcic words, i will nevtr 
have thee, nor for fake thee ; which I prcfeni- 
\y took as dirc6^ed tD myfelf ; and I muft 
own, the exprciTion gave me a great deal of 
fscrct (atistadtiou. 

The bcgioning of thr$ year I fixed my daily 
employments as follow : The morning i fpcnt 
in my devotions, and paying my dury to Goi j 
after I had done ihar, I went out with my 
gun, to feck provifion ; which, afrcr I had 
got it, look mc up fome time io dreffiog and 
cooking V in the middle of ihe day I was for- 
ced to lie by, by rcafon of the cxcciUve heat ; 
&nd the reit of the time I fpent making and 
xontfiving fuch neccffarics es I flood molt in 
csed of. 

But now the time for my little harvifV 
coming on» I had. the dcflrable piofpe^t of a 
good crop, but my hopes were fadly difap- 
p- ioted^ by the goats and hares ; who having 
taftcd ihc fwectoeis of my core, had cropped 
it fo clofc, that it had not ilrength to fhodt 
up into a ftalk : To prevent this. I w?s forc- 
ed to make a bcdgt: rrund ic ; ^'tit I had no 
foGser done this, than I was infcfted with 
vermin of another fort ; my b««ck was no 
fooner turced but whole flecks of birds came 
and deftroycd what the ojhcrs h^d \zh \ I let 
fly at tht. and killed three or chcm. which 
I hung upon (lakes as a trrro^ to rh:. rtft % 
which p.t j-<n. hid fogood an f ffv6l. xhv «h2y 
not on y -oifook thc corCj baj th tn ef 
the .fl*c.d for €v:r aiui. 



44 ROBINSON 

My corn growing ripe and harved coming 
0D» I cut it down and carried home the ears : 
and, after I had lubbed them, and threfhed 
them in the beft maaoer I could, as near as 
I could conjecture, the produce of the bar- 
Icy was about two bu(heis and a half, and 
that of the rice about the fame quantity ; & 
now I plainly faw, ry the providence of God, 
I (hiutd be (upplied with corn> though at the 
fame time I warned all manner of necclTi- 
rles for making it into bread, which with the 
greatcft labor aad difficulty I afterwards lup- 
piied. 

My feed biiog thus incrcafcd, my next 
care was to prepare more land lo fow it in ; 
and according'y I fixed upon two large plats 
cvs the back Cxdt of my c^ftic, ia which i fuw- 
cd my feed, and fenced it wiih a good Lcdge^ 
so defend it from the vermin. 

In fhort, my corn increafcd to that degree, 
that I thought I might notr venture to eat 
jom; ol it ; but how ro make into bread was 
fliil the dimcu'ty \ and yet even thiijt found 
ihe means to furmount at laft ; aadlo, as in 
all other emergencies, I fouad a remedy ht^ 
jond my expcdUtioo. 

After [ lad procured every thing ncedfi^l 
sor making my bread, which vou may ima- 
gine w;:$ no fnnall fatisfa<IitiGn, the profpr^: 
of land which I had fecn from the othct fide 
of the iflaod, ran ftill in my mjnd jbut how 
I fhould come at it I was «ncily at a loft to 
know 5 i tried to recover the fhip*5 boar, and 
then to make mc a canoe, but a'i iii vaio j & 
here I could not forbear rtflcfftng upon tbs 
felly of thcfe who UDdertake matters iks* 
ehcy arc icot able to go thiou^h with^ 



CRUSOE. 45 

t was in tf c mid ft of my prcj fts. when my 
, "fourth year cxpitcl fi .v.c \ had been caft on 
this ifland ; nor did I forgi to k cp my an- 
niveri. ly fvith that iociinity aod d€vo:i<)Q 
that I had done the year before ; I b gm to 
think myfelf feparatcd from the world, and 
from all opportuoidcs of friendly coovcrla* 
tion. I had nothiDg to covet, being, as it 
were, an emperor or king of a whole coun- 
try, where I had nobo-^y tocontroul mc, nor 
any body to govern but myfelf. 

Tbcfe thoughts made mc look upon the 
things of this world with a fort o\ religious 
contempt, and rendered me eafy in my defo- 
latc and melancholy coodiiion ; for, having, 
made God's mercies to mc matters of the 
highcft confolation, I relinquifhed all penfivc 
thoughts a3id difmal apprthenfions, aad tct 
figocd myfelf up entirely to God's providence. 
My ink was quite gone, and my Bifcuit al- 
roofl exhaufted ; my linen was worn oiit, 
only fo<ie of the failors checked fhirtj re- 
mained, which were of inighty ufe to me in 
hot weather. My cioaihs and bat were quite 
worn, but thofc I fuppiif'd by the he?p of my 
gcat IkinSj of which i firft made me a fort 
Oi- a cap, End then s waiftcoat, ard opsrn 
kneed breeches wifh the hair on the outflJc ; 
b and th«s being pcrfe^^iy at cafe in my mi; d, 
I I fpent my time in contcm-platiog the bi/fT- 
' PS of heaven, and was raviil-eJ to think 
t one time or other I &oV>ld be delivered 
irom aiy prcfeni misfortuncSj and placed out 
of th?: ifach of 'hem forevir/ 

For five years after this nothing wcr?h 
QCiociog happened, or' ' -^^ ^^'Mc titties I 



46 n B I N S N 

bad i^Difhed a fmall caooe, with which, at alt 
hazards, I rcfolvcd to try to difcovcr the cir- 
cumfercncc of my dominions ; and in order 
CO it, I put provifioDS 00 board, with ammu- 
nition, and ail other ncceiTaries fit for the ex- 
peditioQ. 

It was the i6ih of November, in the pth 
year of my reign, that I began this voyage, 
which was much longer than I expe^ed, by 
reaioa I had many difiicuUies to encounter 1 
did not fufpe^t ; and indeed the rocks were 
To high, and ran fo far mto the fea, that I 
often rcfolved to turn back, rather than run 
the rifque of being driven fo far cut to the Tea 
as by no means to be able to get back again. 
In this confuflon I came to an anchor as 
Ecsr to the fhore as poflibic, to which I wad- 
ed, and climbing up to the top of a high 
hiU, 1 vkwed the c&ient of my dominions, 
and, at all hazards, refolvcd to purfue my 
voyage. It is cndlefs to relate what daogcr 
my rafhocfs expo fed mc to ; I was ckiven by 
she current fo far into the lea,. that I had 
hardly any prolpc£\ of getting back again ; 
cot by all I could do with my paddles, which 
I had made to fupply the place ot fculls to 
help me ; and now had no profpc^t but pt- 
rifhing at lea when my provifions were fpcnt, 
cr, if a ftorro fhould arifcj before. How^ 
ever, by the lucky chance cf the wind, or 
rather by the particuljir providence of Goo, 
I was driven back ?gaia to the ifl^cd, aod to 
my upfpeak^ib e joy* I came on fbo? c ; where, 
bein^ exceedingly fatigued with watchiog acd 
hard labor, I laid me down and took a \\^.i\s. 
f epofe. After ! awoke, and had drtflcd my- 



q R U S E. 47 

fclf a* ofual, I laid up my boat in a frnaU 
coDVcnicDt crctk 2c for my purpofc, & tak- 
ing my gun &c. I made the bsH: of my way 
to my bower, where I again laid me down to 
left i but if was not long before I was iur- 
priled wirh a voice, which called, Rohtn Cru- 
fog, poor Ro'un Crujos ! where have you been 
■ p03r Robin Crufoe ? __ 



Upon Which I ftartcd tip in great toafoScCs 
askd CaiiiDg my eyes round, I faw my parro: 
Siting upon fhs hcdgs ; and tbcii I knew It 
was Siz that c^.llcd mc, bus was ftraegely fur- 
prized how ihe creature came there, and wby 
it fliould fix upon that place abjve ibe reft. 
The bird came to me as foon as I called it, 
and puichcd upon my finger, a J ufuil, ana 
fecmed to (ignify a great deal of joy for my 
return. 

This voyage had cured me,l^i great deal 
of my rambliog inclinatioo ; infomuch that 
I b:gan lo lay ..Sdc a'i hopes of deliverance ; 
fol led a FCiircd life, and in a vety ccntcotcd 
manner pafTrd away near twelve mOnih<5, 
ipenditg my lime in making inftrumcnts, & 
doiDg fucb things as wcie moil: abfolutcly ne- 
ccfiijy, both for my prcfcnt aad future fub» 

filt:acs. 



48 ROBINSON 

My next confidcratif n wat, my powder 
growing (hort, what I ihoHtd do fo kill ihe 
g< ats and ia^U to «i^c upon : I had abuT* 
daccc cf cou»rivarc»$ in my head lo try to 
carch the goats anv , par icu'arly the fhc 
goats with y u ^ and at lergh I had my dc- 
£ire ; for m^tking pit falls, and b«iting ibdii 
with !omc oi my corn, one morning I found ia 
Goc o^ ibtm an old he g at, and in the other 
three yourg cnrs, one male and twofemalcf. 

The eld rnc was too ftrocg for me, and I 
could not tell hrw to mafter him : but the 
kids I made fhifi to get to ray habitation. It 
was lome time before I could make them f.eed^ 
but aficr they had for fome time bcco with- 
out food» and I threw tbem iome frefh corn» 
sod gave them fome water, their flomachs 
came to them. And now my next care was 
to find them padure, acd fccure them fo that 
they might not run away, all which I at laft 
effected ; and withal, by my well ufiog thcfe 
poor creatures, I had mads them fo tame 
and familiar, that they would follow me and 
eat corn out o( my band. Thus having an- 
fwercd my ends, I think, in about cighteea 
months time, i got a fiock of about twelve ; 
and in Icfs than two years forty three ; and 
now I was not only provided with goat's 
flcfh, but with milk alfo, which was another 
blcffiog I had little reafon to cxpc6V. 

Being thus happy, and having almofl for- 
got all hopes of libcity, I lived as well as the 
nature of my condition couid poffibly allow % 
and indeed, it was a very diverting light to 
fee me fit in ftatc at my dinner, all alone by 
cnyfelfi like a king \ and it would have beca 



C^ R U S E. 49 

a very pleafant objsft to have fccn mc in my 
goat ikia drefs, and other (uitable habili- 
ments* 

My chief concern now wai about my boat, 
which 1 was extremely uowilling to loie, it 
having coft me fo much hard labour : I went 
byla'^S to the place where I left it, but found 
there * was no way to bring it off, without 
lunniog the fame rifque I was fo lately es« 
pofed to, which I thought too dangerom for 
a (econd experiment, and therefore I refolv- 
ed upon another expedient, which yf&t to 
make another canoe, and leave it on the 
other nde of the iilaod. 

And here i think it may not be improper 
to ioform the reader that I had two planta- 
tions in the ifland : the fiid was rny little 
fort, or caftle, where I had made fevcral ini- 
provcments i and the fecood was my bower, 
or country feat, where were mj giapcs and ^ 
the cnclofures for my goats, and fcvexal 
other convenicncics, that made it a very pica- 
fant and agreeable retirement. 

To this place it was that I u(ed to go of- 
ten to view my goats. And now I fhall re- 
late a thing that gave me the mod difqtii&t Cf 
any thing that I had met with fines my fiift 
coming into the ifland. 

It may well be fuppofcd that, after I had 
been fo long ia this dcfolate part of the world, 
nothing could have been more amazing than 
to have ieen any human creature ; but one 
day, as I was going to my boat, as ulual, I 
perceived, on tne iand, the print of a man's 
naked foot j and had I feen an apparition, I 
E 



so ROBINSON 

could DOt have been more terrified. I look- 
ed round on all fideti but could not hear or 
fee any thiog ; I obfervcd the iramplingf, 
and was convinced, from all iigns, that fome 
foot had been there : and ia the deeped con- 
fulion^ I returned back to my habitation. 

That night I cevcr clofcd my cycj,^ and 
was full of the moft difmal apprchcnfioi^s that 
I ever had in all my life. Sometimes I had 
the folly to think it mud be the devil ; at 
other times I thought it rather fome favage^ 
that the current had driven in, and not lik- 
ing the place, was iecretly gone o£Fto fea a* 
gain. Happy was I, io my thoughts that 
Done of the favages had feen me ; and yet, 
at the fame time, I was exceedingly terrified 
lefl they fhould have ieen my boat, and fo 
com« in great numbers, and find me out, 
and devour mc, and all my little dock, that 
t had been fo ioog gathering. Thefe thoHs 
affil^ed me extremely ; and yet, after ma- 
ture confideration, I concluded it was my bed: 
way to throw myfelf uppn the Sovereign Go- 
vernor of the World, and to iubmit entirely 
to his mercy and providence. 

4(|tcr a world of fears and apprehenfioos^ 
for three nights and days, T ventured out ot 
my fortrefs ; I milked my goats, and after 
I had put every thing in order, not without 
the grcatcft coofternation, I went again to 
the (hore to make my farther obfcrvations ; 
and upon the whole, concluded, that either 
the idind was inhabited, or that fome perfon 
had been en (hore, and that I might be fur- 
prizsd before I was aware. 



C R U S E. 51 

This pm fcvcral frightful notions into my 
head, infomuch that flcep was an entire 
(Irangcr 10 mc ; my whole thoughts being 
taken up on nothiog but roy prcfcrvation, I 
put ray caftlc into the beft pofturc of defence I 
was able, and placed all my guns fo that they 
might be ferviceable if I fhouid have occafion 
ro make ufe of them. 

I divided my goats into feveral parcels ; 
ten fhe goats and two he ones I put into one 
part of the iiland, and the other ten, with 
two he ones, in another ; and whilft I was 
in fearch of the latter, which was on the 
Weftcrn part of the ifland, I thought I dif- 
covercd a boat, but at too great a didance to 
make out what fhe was. Being come to the 
iliore, upon the S. W. partof the ifland, I 
was convinced that they wcrefavagcs, feeing 
th« place covered over with the fkuils and 
mangled iirabs of human bodies. I obferved^ 
likewife a fcrt cf a circle, in the midft o£ 
which I perceived there had been a fire j 
about ihls I coDJe^lteed thefe wretches fat, 
and unnaturally iacraccd and devoured thei? 
fellow creaiurss. 

The horror and ioathfulncrf cf this dread- 
ful fpcftacle cocfouaded me fo, that, though 
I was fatijficd thefe favages never came iato 
the part of the iiland where I was, yet fucli 
an abhcrrencc oi them had fcizcd rac, that 
for two years I confined myfelf ia my caftlri 
njy couhuy fear, and my cnclofures ; and 
♦.bus my circum dances rc*'n3lncd for fosse 
time uadifturbed. But fiiil my grand ia- 
■^n:I:a remained, which was to try If I could 



SI ROBINS N 

dcftroy fome of thofc favages, and favc a vic» 
tim that I might afterwards make my fervant. 

Many were my projects and contrivances 
to bring this aboui j at length I eame to this 
fettled refolution, to lie privately in ambufhi 
in fome convenient phce, & let fly upon tliem 
with my guns flrft, and then with my piftols, 
and fword in hand ; and fo much did this 
propofal pleafe my fancy, that I fully rcfolv- 
cd to put it in practice the firfl opportunity; 
and accordicgly, I foon found a place conve- 
sient for my purpofe ; but at the fame time, 
I had feveral checks of confcience, and rea- 
foniog with myfelf, concerning the lawfulnefs 
and juftice of the attempt ; and, after a long 
debate, I concluded to lay afide the defign. 

Whilfi: I was cuttiog down fome wood one 
day^ to make charcoal to dreis my meet and 
do the family neccflaries, I perceived a very 
large cavity ; and going towards it, I could 
perceive two large eyes iUringupon me ', up- 
on wfcich I made hade our, extremely terri- 
fied, not imagiaing Hf ^t it could be that 
looked fo frightfully ?nowcver, after I had 
recovered from my iurprizc, I went again in- 
to the cavity, rcfolving, at all hazards, to fee 
what it was ; and when I came near enough 
CO difccrn it pcrfeftly, what fhould it be, after 
allj but a monftrcus he goat lying on the 
ground, and gafping for life, through mere 
old age. 

The creature was not able to ftand, and 
fo I let him lie undifturbsd, and employed 
myfcif in viewing the place and making cWer- 
vatioDs. At the further fide of it I obferved 



CRUSOE. 53 

a fort of an eotrance, but fo low, as to oblige 
me to creep on my haids aod knees to it : — 
I had DO candle, and the place was dark, and 
fo I lufpcndcd my cntcrprlz: till the ncxc 
day, when I returned with dx large ones oi 
my own making. 

After I had pafied the ft rait paflage, I 
found the roof rofc higher up ; and fare, 
when I got farther in, no mortal cvsr faw a 
more beautiful fight 1 The walls and ihe 
roof rcfl:ftcd a thoufand !igbts from my two 
candles ; and indeed, it fcetacd to mc the 
moft delightful grotto I had ever heard of. 
In fhort, I could find no fault but in the en- 
trance, and which I thought would be very 
nscelTary for my dcfsncc & (ccurity ; there- 
fore I determined to make the pbcc my prin- 
cipal magazine ; and accoidirgly, I carried 
thither, with the uimoft expedition, feme 
arms & amunition Judging it impoffibls for vac 
to be furprizcd by the favagcs in that faftn:fs. 

I think I was now in the 23d year of my 
reign, and tolerably cafy in my condition. — 
By this time my pa'f||bt had learnt to talk 
Eogliih very well, and many diverting hours 
we uied to have together. My dog died of 
old age ; and my cats incrcalcd fo faft, that 
I was often forced to deftroy fasi;2 of them, 
left I ihould be over run with their numbcfs. 
I always kept two or three domcliic Goats 
about me, and had feveral foi^ls that buiit 
and bred about my caftlc, (o as to make rac 
happy as I could wi(h : But alas I what un- 
iorcfeeo evcnit deftroy the uaccstaia enjoy- 
ments of human happioefs ! 
E 2 



54 ROBINSON 

It was now December, the time of my har- 
veft, wheD, going out one morning early, 
there appeared to me from the Ihore, about 
two mites diilance from ms, a fiaming lig^t 
from ihat part of the ifland where I had be- 
fore obletved (ome favages had been on my 
fide of the water. 

Terrified with this unufual fpe^laclei and 
being under difmal appreheniloos that thefe 
favages would find me out, and deftroy me, 
I went directly home to my caille, and fhut 
myfelf up as faft as "^I could, and put myfelf 
into a poflure of defence ; and afterwaids I 
got up to the top ot the rock, and viewing 
with my profpc^tive gUfs, I could difccrn no 
lefs then nine naked favages fi ting round a 
£re, andeaticig (as I fuppofed) human flefh, 
with thtii* two canoes hauled on ihore, wait- 
ing for the tide to carry them back again. 

No'hiog can cxprcfs my deteftation of io 
horrid a fight ; efpccially when I found they 
were gone, and I had been at the place of 
facrifice and'faw the limbs and fiefh of hu- 
man creatures lie torn|||nd mangled upoa 
the ground : In fhort, ray indignation againft 
thfm rofc (o high, that let the confcqurncc 
be what it would, I determined to be reveng- 
ed upon fhc firft that ihould come thither, 
though I loH my life in the attempt. 

I ^uund afterwards that they did not come 
over »o ihi« ifliod very often ; and as near I 
can lemembei it was a year or more before 
I faw any more of thera. Bat before I pro- 
ceed father, 1 have another account that will 
dcfcrvc thv reader's attention. 



CRUSOE. 



55 



It wai the i6 h of May, according to mj 
wooden calender, after a very terrible ftofm 
when I was alarmed wirh the noife of a gun 
as fired from a fh^p in diArefs ; upon which 
I immeJiatcly took my glafs and went up to 
the top of the rock where I had not been a 
moffieot but a flame of fire gave notice of 
another gun ; and then I was confirmed in 
my opinion^ that it could be nothing lefs than 
a fliip in diftccfs j which, with my glafs I, foon 
difcoveicd to be ttuc \ and that cbe wreck 
was upon thoie hidcJen rocks^ where I was ia 
great danger of being loft in ihy boat. 








I made a fiic upon the hill by way. of fig. 
nal and they faw it, and anfwercd it with 
ievtral guns. The weajher was very hazy, 
and To I could not, ^i that time, difcovar 
ffirhcr at what diftap<:e the (hip lay, or wha*' 



^6 ROBINSON 

fhe was ; but the weather cleariog up, I iaw 
a ihip caft away fomc diftance at fea. 

I had feveral notions coDccrning them., as 
is natural in fuch cafes ; but confidericg fc- 
rioufly the place where they were, and all 
other circumftances, I could not conceive any 
poffibility but that ihcy muft be all loft ; and 
indeed, to the la ft year of my being in this 
ifland, I never knew of any that were faved 
out of this (hip ; I only faw the body of a 
a boy which was driven on (hore, but I could 
not difcovcrby him of what nation they were. 
The lea was now very calm, which tempt- 
ed me to venture to the wreck, not only in 
hopes to get fomething I waoted, but like- 
wife, if there was any body left alive inthc 
ihip, to endeavour to fave their lives. This 
rcfolution fo far prevailed, that I went home 
immediately and got every thing ready for 
the voyage ; and accordingly after a great 
deal of labour, haz'^rd, and difficuhy, I at 
length got to the wreck which I beheld with 
the gvcaieft piiy and concern. By her built 
I foun4 (he was a Spaniard, and had endur* 
ed a terrible cobili^i before (he was loft. 

When I was come near to her, I faw a 
dog on board, who no fooner faw me but he 
fell to yelping and howling, and I no fooner 
called to him, but the poor creature jumped 
into the fea and fwam to me and I took hicn 
into the boat almoft famifh.rd. When I 
came into the fhip, the firft light that I be- 
held was two drowned men in the arms of 
each other ; I found Ihe was a rich fhip, and 
as I bad rec^fon to bclicvC| bouud home from 



C R U S E, 57 

the Spanifii Weftindics, What became of 
the teit of the Sailors I could not tell, there 
bciag none of their bodies on board, befidcs 
the two before mentioned. 

As I was rummaging about her, I found 
fcveral things I wanted, viz a fire fliovcland 
tongs, two brafs kettles, a pot to make cho- 
colate, feme horns of fine ^tazed powder, a 
gridiron, and feveral other ccccflarici. Thcfe 
I put on board my boaf, together with two 
chefls and a ca& of rum ; and after a great 
deal of toil and difiicuity, I got fafc back to 
the ifland. 

I repofed myfelf that dfght in the boat, 
and the next day landed my cargo, which I 
carried to my grotto 5 and haviDg examined 
my eftefts, I fOund in the two chefis feveral 
things I wanted, particularly fomc (hirts and 
handkerchiefs ; I found aifo three bags of 
pieces of eight ; all which I would willingly 
have given for five or fix pairs of Englilh 
fliocs and ftockiogs. 

After I had floored all this new cargoc 
into my cave, I made the bed of my way to 
my caf^lc and found every thing as I left it, 
fo ^hat I had nothing to do but to repofe 
myfelf, and to take care of my domeftics. 
And now wanting nothing that was rcqui- 
fite for the fupport of life, I might have liv- 
ed very quiet, had cot the appfcbenfion of 
the favages difiurbed me ; upcn which ac- 
count I feldom went far abroad, if I did, h 
was to the eaftern part of the ifi^nd,' where 
I well knew they never came : And for two 
years I lived in this afissious coadition) my 



jS ROBINSON 

head beiDg always full of proje£ls howl 
might get away from this defolate place. 

As I obferved before, though I was tcjera* 
bly fecure agauift the reach ok want and had 
all the diveiiion the nature of the iflaod 
would allow, yet the thoughts of my dclivcrr 
ance were ftiU uppermof^, as the reader will 
eafily perceive by the followiog relation in 
which I fhall give a fhort account of the 
fchemes and piojcfts I made for my cfcape. 
As I lay in my bed one night in March, 
the 24th year of my folitude, I ran through 
all ihe accounts of my life, from my very 
fifft remembrance to the prefisnt time, and 
found all along that the prcvidcncc of God 
had been exceedingly kind and merciful to 
me, and when I considered, more partitvlar- 
ly how many dangers I bad paff'cd, it could 
sot but make aie dcfomiy thankful to my 
great deliverer, without w^ofe affiftancc I 
muft inevitably have pcriChcd, 

After I had thus briefly debated with my- 
fclfon my prefent and former coodiiion. 
I began next to conilder the nature of ihdOs 
ravages, and the couotry that they inhabitcdj 
how far it watto theplacc from whence they 
came, and what boats they had to bring them 
over hither, and at -the (amc time had fomc 
notions to go oyer to their Cdcj to fee wh^^t 
difcoveries i could make. 

I bad notions, that, if by any method I 
could get upon the continent, I might ia 
eimempet-with a fhip to carry me to Europe, 
for hcre'l locked upon myfclf to bs the 
aiblViftiierablc man livings and prefercd cvea 



CRUSOE, Sf 

death itfelf to my ftay io this defolate ifland. 
Whiift my thoughts were thus confufcd* 
I had no notioD of any thing elfe but my 
voyage to the contioeat \ and indeed fo 
much was I ioflamed with thefe notions, that 
I in a great meafure forgot my duty to God 
and was reduced almoft to a ftate of defpara- 
tion ; and after many thoughts and flrug- 
gliogs in my mind, I came at length to this 
conclufion, viz. That the only probable way 
Ih^d to efcapei was to get one of thefe la- 
vages ; which I could find no other way to 
bring about, than by venturing my life to 
favc him from the jaws of his dcvourcrs, 
which r thought muft infpirc him with gcau- 
lud.e to his prefervcr. 

Thcfc were my fixsd Refolutionsi but I 
tbiDk it was at leaft a year and an half be< 
fore I could fiad an opportunity of putting 
them in execution. To the beft of my re- 
membrance it was thc^23d day of April, ear- 
ly in the morning, when I was furprized with 
the fight of five canoes, all on ihore toge- 
ther, on my fide of the iiliad, and the crea- 
tures that belonged to them all landed and 
out of fight. 

At fifft I thought all thefe boats raufl: 
bring too many to be attacked by one per- 
ion, and was in a mighty confufion as to 
what was beft to be done ; however, being 
impatient to fee fomethiog of their manage- 
ment, I took my guns, and went fecretly to 
the top of the hill, where, by the help of my 
pcofptftive glafs, I obfcrvcd no lefs than thir- 
ty, fitting round a fire and feafticg upon 



do 



ROBINSON 



what meat they had drcfled ; what it was I 
could not diftinguifh : Afterwards they all 
danced around the flames, ufiogmaDy fright* 
ful ^nA barbarouf Gestures. 

Whilft I was lo 'king caroeftly on thefc 
wr* tchest I could difcero them dragging two 
miferabtc ccatures out o^ oci oi their boats. 
It was not long before I faw one of them 
kr ocked down, and three or four of theoi 
fcU to cutting aod mangling his body, in or- 
der to d^^vour him as they h^td done the for- 
mer. Whilft the other miTcrable creature 
ftood cxpcfting every moment the fate of his 
companion, iofpired with the hopes of life 
he gave a fuddcn ftart from them, an.d ran 
with great {mitnzU towards my caftlc* 




€ n U S B. ft 

t was under great appreheofiocs that he 
would fly to my grove for proicdion. I was 
glad to fee he had the heels of them.aod from 
bi»fwiftDc($,coDcludcd he would prcfcntly lofc 
light of them, aod iave hb life. There was 
a little creek juft before himi where I was a- 
f raid the poor victim would be taken if be 
could oot fwim ; but it happened he fwam 
very well and foon got over, and ran agaia 
with his former flrcngih and fwiftnefs. Two 
of the three that followed him, fwam over after 
faim, but the other, that could not fwim, re- 
turoed back to his companions. And now, 
or never, I thought it was my time to pro- 
cure a favage for my companion. Accord* 
iogly, with all the fpeed I could, I came 
down from the rock, took up my two guns, 
refolviog to fave the victim if pcfiible ; and 
in order to it, came a nearer way, and put 
myfelf between the Purfuers and the purCu* 
ed, beckoning to the latter to {land flill, who, 
you mufl imagine, was not a little (urpn'zed 
at me. The firfl purfuer I knocked down 
with the ftock of my piece, and the other, 
who I perceived was preparing his bow and 
arrow to fhoot me, I let fly at, and killed 
him dead on the fpot. 

The poor frighted Indian was amszed to 
fee the fire and hear the noife of the gun ; 
however, I made ilgns to him to come to me^ 
which at length he did, but not without a 
Sreat deal of fear aod trembling, being afraid, 
I believe, I ihould kill him too. 1 did all I 
could to convince him of his miftake, and at 
icDgth fo far convinced him, by the ugnf I 
F 



4z ROBINSON 

made him, that hi came to me, and threv 
himfclf at mj fccf, and took one of my feet 
and put it upon his head ; which was a tok- 
en, it feemS) of his rcfoiution to he my flave 
for cTer ; upon which I took him up, made 
much of him, aod cocouraged him in the 
beft maooer I could. 

By this time I faw the faYage 1 bad knock* 
ed down, began to reco?er, and Wiis fitting 
Upright, which made my new flvve as much 
afraid as before, but I foon prevented bis 
fright by prffcnting my piece at him ; bm my 
favage oppofed my fhooiing him, making a 
figo to me to lend him my fword, which 
bung by my fide, and no foooer had I grant* 
cd his rcqucftj but away he ran to his enemy, 
and very o'extcroufly, at one blow, cut off 
his head ; aLd as a token of triumph» bro'C 
it to mf, together with my fword, and laid 
it at my feet. 

The grealeft aftonifhmcnt my new fervant 
was in, was, how I killed the iavage at that 
diftaoce, without a bow and arrow ; aod to 
fatiify bimfelf in that matter, he made figns 
to me to let him go aod view him. And 
having viewed the wound the bullet had made 
10 his breaiV, he took up his bow and ar- 
rows, and came back to me again, making 
figcs to me to give him !c*ve to buty him, 
which, with my confcnt, he peformcd with 
wonderful dexieiiiy. 

When I percc ved be had done, I called 
him away, aod canicd him dircftiy to my 
cavff, where I gave him v £tuals» and then 
poinccd to him to lie down upoa fomc i^iaw^ 



en u s E. 63 

add take a Hale reft. Ho w«s a very hand- 
fome well-propDrtiooed fellow, and in all 
reipcAs the moft beautiful ladiao I cvct iaw; 

I think be had not (lept above an hi>ur, 
before he came out of the cave to me, as I 
was milking my goats, and again threw him- 
felf fit my feet, and put my osher foot upoa 
his head, as a farther token that he intended 
te be my (lave forever. 

That night we flayed in the cave : but 
early the next morning, I made figns to bim 
to rife and go with me ; and, withal, made 
him to underfland that his name was to be 
Friday ^ it bcipg on that d.<y I faved his life, 
and that I intended to give him fome cloatht 
to hide his nakednefs. As we pafl*c:d by the 
place where the favages were buried, he 
poinred dire^lly to the graves^ and let me 
know by his geftures that he intended to 
dig them up and devour them, upon which 
I let him fee I was extremely difpleafed at it, 
and made him come away, which he did wi:b 
the grcatclt reverence. 

In our way to the cafiilc, we went to the 
top of a hill to view if the favages were gone, 
and finding they were, wc refrcfhed our- 
fclves for that night, and the next morning 
]]L rcfolved to arm inyfclf, and take my mac 
'with me, and go to view the piace where 
lh<;y committed their barbarities. When 
we came upon the fpot, it is impoillbie ic 
cxprf fs the horriblenefs of the fight ! Here 
Say the fiefh and entrails, and there the 
mangled limbs of human creatures ; in fhart^ 
' t filled Ene with the grcatcft horrer and de» 



64 RO B TN SaN 

teftatfoD. Friday gate tne to UDderfttnd 
that there were three there facrificed, and 
if I had DOt refcued him, be had been th« 
fourth. I made bim gather up the frag- 
ments and lay them to a heap, and made a 
fire upon them, and buret them to afiies :-— 
and ftiit I found my man had a hankering 
after (ome of the flcffa, which I refented with 
the utmoil abhorrence, and made him un- 
derhand, that if ever I found him guilty of 
any fuch inhumanityi I would certainly fhoot 
him. 

After this we went to my caftlei where I 
cloathed my man as well as the nature of the 
place and my circumftances would admit* 
He feemed at firfl: a little uneafy and awk- 
ward in his new drefs ; but after he had worn 
them four or five dayt| he grew familiar with 
them, and feemed extremely well fatisficd. 
Now my next concern war« how I might 
lodge him well, and yet be eafy myfelf ; and 
in order to this, ( erected bim a little tent 
between my tiro fortifications, fecured my 
arms every night, aod made every thing fo 
fafe, that it was impcflible for me to be fur- 
prifed ; (hough I muO: at the fame time own 
there was no need of thefe cautioos ; for 
never man was blcfled with a fcrvant that lov- 
ed and obeyed bim with greater teodernefsj 
fidelity and afFtilion ; which endeared him 
to me extremely, and induced me to think 
how I might bcft arquit mjrfcif to him. 

I had not been above two or three days ia 
my caftic. when I firft prcpofed to bring him 
ofif ffom his barbarous incUnatioQ to humaa 



C R U SOB. ,6s 

flefh ; in order to which I ufcd fcveral in- 
ticements ; till the poor creature who bad 
the moft dutiful and tender regard to erery 
thing lcomDaandedhiin,& indeed did not want 
good rcole> was perfe^llf weaned from his 
vicious inciioatioa, and had as deep and fix- 
ed an abhorrence of any fuch barbarous pro- 
ceedings as my felf ; he fell upon his kneesi^ 
and made all figos of his averfioo he poiliblf 
could, proQOuncing many things I did not 
underfland \ only in the mainj I found that 
his only apprchenfions were from the fe*" I 
Should (hoot him ; for the thoughts of the 
gu0| and the manner of the execution it did> 
were Ai I in his mind, and he could by no 
means be reconciled to it ; he would iicver 
fo much as touch it with his fioger, for feTC- 
ral days, and I bdieve, if I had not prevent- 
ed it, he W3uld have paid it a fort of addora^ 
tioo : hs would go, as often as my back wa§ 
turned, and taik to it in his own diale£k ; the 
intent of which was, uy de^re it not to kill 
him. 

I had kiiled a kid^which we brought home, 
and the next day I g^vz him fome of the 
fleflb, both boiled and ro^fledi with which he 
was (o much delighted, that he gave me figns 
(which I perfect y uadcrHood) that whilft he 
lived he would never more eat any mat/s 
flcfli on any accout r. And now I began to 
think it high time to ictmy f^rvant to work; 
efpeciaily coofideriog I had low two mouths 
to feed indead of one. i found him extra- 
ordinary quick and handy in every thiog I 
ki him abouf| and he had the icnie to make 



66 ROBINSON 

me underftand that I hsd more labour in mj 
hands OD his account than I had for myfeif, 
and that he would (pare no paiot nor dili- 
gence in any thing I fticuld command or di- 
rect ; and indeed, the fellow's honefty and 
(Iroplcintcgii y grew fo confpicuouf, I really 
began to love him intircly ; and for his part, 
I am well pifured there was no love loft. I 
had a mind to koow if he had any inclina- 
tioD to his own country ; and having taught 
him as much Englifh as polliblc, I afked him 
•fiveral quellions, which he anfwered very 
pertiocnfly ; particularly, I aikcd concerning 
the nature and diftance of bit country, and 
their manner of fighting, &c. The fellow 
had a very good natural gcniuS) and would 
often aofwer my qaedions with very quick 
and fu'piiiiog turns; and when I (poke a- 
bout religion, he heard me with the greatcfl: 
rcTcrecce and attention, and would often 
furprife me with important and unexpe^ed 
qucftions ; and in truth, I fpared no pains to 
inflrufl him according to the be(l of my 
knowledge. I ;ik?d him who made him & 
all the world ? As fooo as he underAood 
me, he anfwered. Old Benamuckee ; but ail 
that he could fay of bim w^s, that he was 
▼ery old, much older than the Tea and land, 
the moon and ftars^ and that he li^ed a great 
way beyond them ail, 

Whec I had cpquired into the maooer of 
fcrving ihrir God, I proceeded, according ta 
the be A of my knowledge, to infttufl him in 
the principles of the cariftian religion, and 
laid bsfoie him fcveral of the chief troths 



CRUSOE. ^7 

upon which it wat grounded ; to which he 
gave the greated aticntioot aod wculd aik 
vcf y pertinent queftioof, by way ok ioforma- 
tion : In fhort, I foon perccivsd this poor 
creature every day impjoved by my instruc- 
tions ; and my endeavours to inftiuft him 
were a great hetp to myfclf, aad brought 
thofe things frcfh in:o my memory which 
the length of time had almj(l defaced ; fo I 
kad the great. (t reafon to blefs providence 
for fending him to aic in thii ftatc of.ioiitude. 
'His company al'ayed th thoughts of my mife- 
ry, and made my habitation more comfort- 
able than it had been ever /ince my firft com- 
ing to the iflaad. It brought into my mind 
daily notions of heaven and heavenly things* 
and fii'cd mi with a fecret joy that I was 
brought into this p!ace» which I ODce thought 
the moft mifcraMe part of the univerfe. 

By this time Friday began to fpsak tolera- 
ble cngli(h, though a little broken. We con- 
v^rfed with g^eai familiarity ; and I took a 
particular pleafure to relate to him the fcvcr- 
al accidents and adventures of my life. I 
foon made him undrrftaod that wonderful 
myftciy, as he cocceivcd it» of the gunpow- 
der and ba!i, and taught him to fhoo% which 
he fjon learnt in the greateft peifcftioo. I 
gave him a kaife, which he was very proud 
of y likcwife a belt aud a hatch :t, which he 
hung to his girdle, which wiih the reft of his 
accoutrements, made hira look like Don 
^tixote^ when he went to engage the wind 
luiils. After this, I gave h<m a particular 
dcicripUQa of £urope| and <Xd fiagUad^ the 



tl8 ROBINS ON 

place of my nativity ; aboTc all the reft, laU 
fo gave kim an account of my being fhip* 
wrecked, and carried him and ihewed him 
Che ruins of the (hip's boat^ which* though 
U was almoft rotten and fallen to piccesj yet 
I could perceive he took particular notice of; 
which made me aik him the reafon why he 
pondered fo much, ma/ier (faid he) me 
fee tike boat come to place at my nation. It 
prefendy came into my mind, that this mud 
be foms European boat that was forced in 
there by ftrcfs of weather, aftec the lots of 
the (hip, which put me upon enquiry, what 
fort of a boat it was, and what came in it ? 

Friday replied, with greac warmth and ar- 
dour, mi/ier, tue fave white mans from 
driwa : Upon which I afked him if there 
were acy white man< (as he called them) in 
the boat ? Tes^ yes (faid he) the boat fullt very 
full of white mans : how many, Friday ? faid 
I : Whereupon he numbered his fingers, and 
counted ieventeco. Then I a£ked him, what 
became of them all, aod whether they lived 
or not. He replied, yes ma/ier^ they ail live^ 
they be live *mong my nation Upon which 
it came into my thoughtS| that thefe mud bs 
the crew that belonged to the (hip ihat was 
cail away upon my iiladd , who, rather than 
, be devoured in the ocean, bad committed 
themfclvcs to providence, and were driven on 
fhore among the wild Indians. The ootion 
I had of their cruelties made me alk Friday 
how it came to pafs they did not kil: ai<d eat 
them. Not no, laid, Friday^ they not kiii 'em^ 
they make brother with Vi» ; My nation^ 



t^ethirnati^rtf meat mans^ iut 'mhn manf 
make 'war-Aght. As much as to fay, that 
neither his nor any other nation ever ate their 
fellow creatures, but fuch as the law of arms 
allowed to be devoured, aod they were only 
thofe whofe misfortuoe it was to be made 
prifooers of war. 

Some time after this, upon a very clear day, 
my man and I went up to the^top of a very 
high hill| on the eaft iide of the ifl^nd, from 
whence I had once before ken the CoctincBt 
in America ; I could not direfl y tell what 
was the matter, for Friday fell to jumping 
and dancing at if he were mad ; I a&ed him 
the reafoo of his joy. Ojoy i laid he, glad ! 
there fee my country ^ there my nation^ there 
lives white mans ail gether. Upon which I 
could not help thinking, but that, if he could 
by any means get home, he would forget all 
I had done for him, and perhaps brfog hit 
countrymen into my iflaod to defiroy me : 
But, to my (hame I (peak it, my jealoufy was 
▼ery ill grounded, for the poor fellow was of 
a quite different difpoiliion, aod at I found 
afterwards, would freely have loft his life, 
rather than have left me, or done me the leaft 
injury. 

Soon after this, I aiked him if he bad ret 
a dedre to go into his own country ? 7>i, faid 
lie, me much glad to be at my own nation s 
me go if you gOi me no go if you fiiy . J g»^ 
Friday-, faid I, what foall I do there ? He 
anfwered, mifier^ you do great deai much 
geodf you ieaehee ail the wild mans to he good 
tame mans^ ycu Jearn tUm folder, live gwd iife^ 



7# RV B 1^ S ON 

fo4tnow Godf and pray Co J, Alas ! poor Frh 
day. faid I, that's out of my power, ceither 
will 1 veoture araoog them : No, you fhall 
go^nd leave me aloae, at 1 was before I iav- 
cd your life. 

Never was any creature more thuodet 
ftruck thaQ Friday was at thefe words, efpcial- 
ly whcMi I told him he would be at liberty to 
ga as Toon as the boat was ready to carry 
him ; he put ooe of his hatchets into my 
liand. faf irg, only /&/// Friday ; ¥t'i6zy carg net 
live hng : But what muft Ik ill you for? 
(faid I } ^hf dear mafiert what made you Fri- 
day favifrom eat a me up^fo keep long Fi iday 
ifZiS^^ Fr iday love God, and not love Bcnamuc- 
]s.tt^ and now Fnd&j fend, away ^ never fee 
Fiiday more ! When he (poke chis, the tears 
ran down fo plentifully, that Z had much ado 
eo refcaJa from ^weeping myfclf ; 1 comfort- 
ed him in (he bc(l manoer I could ; telling 
him, if he was willing to day with me, I would 
acvcr part with him as long as I lived. 

In (hort, the fellow's honeAy and fincere 
behaviour foon convinced me of <he unrca^ 
fcnablencfs of my jealoufy, and he become 
more dear to me than ever. . Indeed, il 
thought ih^it M ever I could get to the Con- 
tinent, and join thofe white mtn Friday had 
mentioned, it might be the means to farther 
my elcape ; in order to this, Friday apd I 
went into the v/ocds to look out a large tree, 
to build a caoGc, which we effected in about 
^s weeks, and with much trouble and pains 
got her iato the water* I was very well pleaf" 
ed-At the lauQching this liulc man of ip^Ur of 



€ R U 3 E, ft 

mine, which FrHay maaaged wifh great Djx- 
tcrity, and affurcd me it was in a'l poinu 
large enough to carry us over, &if I thought 
proper, he wm ready to venfure with me. 

riiked the fellow's honrft propcfil, but^ 
at the lame ftme, I thought if I could procure 
a maft and fail, it would be better ; which 
wivh the greaicft difficulty imagioabU-, in a- 
bout three months time, I made a ihift to 
parch together ; and afwr that, I had mf 
man Friday to inft^ru£t in the art of naviga- 
tion, which before he knew nothing of. 

I was now entered in the twenty fcv^niU 
year of rny reign, or rather of my captivity, 
and kept the annivcrfary of my landing with 
greater lolcmcity than ever, having rfceived 
inch repeated fignals of the divioc favour, ia 
mv deliverance, prcfctvaiion and profperiiy, 

I now wanted for noihing, and yet my 
mind was ftill intent upon my deliverance ; 
and in truth, I bad a (trcng impreffioD upon 
ine thai I fhould not be another year in this 
ifland ; but I ftili continued my hufbind^y, 
and made the necc^ary preparations for my 
future fub^iftence. The rain fcafon coming 
on, wc were forced to continue for the mojft 
part within dooif, having firft made aU 
neccffary preparation for the fr^curity acd 
fafety of my sew beat, till the months cf 
November aod December, at which time I 
fully determined lu fail over to theCcn ioent. 
And no fooner did it begin to draw near, but 
I began to make preparations for my intend- 
ed expedition and in a fortnight*s time, I 
propofed to cp«n my little dock, and let cut 
the boat for ihai purpofc. 



f 2 ROBINSON 

One morntngy as I was bafyip makmg pre- 
parations for my voyage, Frida^mhom I had 
fent to the feailde to look for a >i^tle, caWe 
runniDg in a terrible fright : iays^e, I havt 
bad nevus : Yonder are three or four canons up' 
on the coaji, and they come to took for poor Fri- 
day, and will eat you as well as me ; and then' 
fore we muft refolve to fight for our lives, ^^ 
Says friJdty, trembliog, me will fight as well 
as / can ; but 1 am afraid they are too many 
for us : but 1 will obey your orders^ and lofe 
the lafi drsp efmy blood for ydu. 

Without father difputcs, we fell to loading 
our arms, aod making every thing ready for 
the orifct ; When w^ had double loaded 
ihem, and put every thing in the bcft pof^ure 
that could be, I took my profpc^ive glafs, 
siod v:nc up to the top of a bill, to try what 
I could difcover ; and I foon perceived there 
were nii^eteco lavages and three prifouerf, 
which [ cDQcluded, by their manaer of a^* 
iDg, were to be devoured. 

This dilmal and inhuman fpe£tacle filled 
ine with the utmoft horror and deteftation, 
and the more fo, as I faw a white man, who 
^by their actions and preparatiocs, I found 
was to be the next facri6ce. This made mc 
make ail the fpeed I could, having fully de- 
termined to deliver him or periQi in the at- 
tetnpt i fo I gave Friday orders to follow 
me, and to do cyery thing he faw me do. 

When we came to a proper diftance undir* 
coTercd, I gave the word to Friday to ^te^ 
as I did^he very fame moment. We took 
<mr aim fo well^ that between us» we killed 



€ R V S E, 7j 

four» and wounded three or four more.— 
No man can imagine the confteroation and 
confufion thefe favages were in upon this 
unexpedled accident : However, not to give 
them any refpite we ^ook up fbme other 
arms/and let fly a fecond time, killed two 
more> and wounded feveral others, which 
added fo to thar confufion, that they ran 
yel!ingand howling about like mad creatures. 
Friday (faid I) take a charged mujket andjol^ 
Jovf me : So, (hewing ourfelves to tbeiui and 
iit the fame time giving a great Ihout, we 
ivent dire^lly to the vi^im, and -immediately 
cut the bands from his hands and legs, and 
Hftiog him upi I aiked him, in the^Fortuguefc 
language, what he w^s : He told me, in Lat* 
in, be was a Spaniard and a Chriftian ; and 
after returning the bcft acknowledgments he 
could for his deliverance, he was about to 
give an account of his csisfortunes, but 1 
prevented him, telling him. That would be bit* 
ter at another time ; and further faid, 

i^ignior, we will talk afterwards, but now 
iur bujinefs is fghting, I gave him a dram 
and a piece of bread to refrcfh him, and then 
gave him a fword and pidoli and bade him 
do what he could ; and to give the man his 
due, CO one could behave himfeif with great- 
pt courage. In Ihort, we fo managed the 
knattcr, that of twenty two favages, not above 
three or four got into one of their canoes, & 
thofc i rcfolvcd to deftroy too if poflible ; 
accordingly, I leaped into one of their ca- 
noes, and ordered Friday to follow zne ; but 
I was QO foooer got in, than I faw another 
G 



74 ROBINSON 

poor creature bound hand and foot for the 
flaughter. I prefcntly helped him up, but 
he was fo faint and weak, that he could nei- 
ther ftand nor fpcak, but groaned fadly^ 
thinking he was now to be facrificed. I bade 
Friday fpcak to him, and afTure him oF de- 
liverance. When he was a little recovered^ 
and lat up in the boat, and had looked up- 
on him more fully^ you cannot imagine the 
poor fellow's traofport : at length, when he 
had alittle recovered himfelf^he told me it was 
his father ; and in truth, he gaye inch un- 
common teftimonies of hit duty and affeAloo, 
that I muft needs own I was very much af- 
fcftcd with it. 

In fhort, with a great deal of difficulty, 
wc got both my new gucfts home to my cal- 
tle, whence I made them a handfome tent, 
and treated them in the beft manner my cir- 
cumftaoces would allOvf. 

And thus, like an abfolute King, I govern- 
ed my little dominions ; and finding that my 
new lubjcfts were very weak, I ordered Fri- 
day to kill one of my kids, and dewed and 
boiled the fie Ih and made theni fome very 
good broth, and dined with them myfelf. — 
After dioner^ I ordered Friday to go to the 
field of battle, and fetch home the arms ; 
and then I bade Friday aik his father wheth^er 
he thought i( poiHbie for the favages to out- 
ride the ftorm, or if they got home, whether 
he thought they would not return in great 
numbers, and endeavour to deftroy us. Hiti 
anfwer wa?, that il: they did reach their own 
country, which he hardly thought poi3ibIC| 



CRUSOE, 75 

yet the (IracgeGcfs of their being attacked 
would certaicly make them teli the people 
that they were deftrcycd by thunder and 
lightning, and that whoever went into the 
ifland wouid certainly be deftroyed by the 
hands of the Godf, and not ofmen ; and that 
the ifland was enchanted ; and that the Gods 
fent fire from above to deftroy all thofe that 
ihould prefume co land in it. 

This account having freed me from my 
ipprehenfionS) and no canoes appearing, I 
rcfolved to purfue my intended voyage, Fri* 
day's father having aflured me thac I might 
depend upon good ufagc from the people of 
his country. As to the Spaniard, I aiked 
him his opinion •, he to'd me the)- were four- 
teen that were cad away upon the ifland, 
aodlthat they had a good undeiftanding with 
the Indians, but were in want of necefl!aries 
for the fupport of human life ; and that if 
I thought proper, he and the old favage 
would go over firft, and fettle matters, in 
order for our reception ; and at the fame 
time he told me, they would all fwcar fidelity 
to rnc, and own me as their leader. 

Upcn thefc affuranccs, I rclolved to fend 
them ever ; but, when every thing was rea- 
dy, the Spaniard ftartcd ehi: material objec- 
tion : You knew, Sir^ faid he, I know thr length 
of y cur /lock, and though you may have enough 
/or tis that are now with you^ yat^ ivhenynu 
enlarge your famiy, I am fenphle it cannot be 
fztffcitnt to fupport us Icng, and therefore my 
aavice is, to 'wait another harviji^ and in ths 
mean time prepare as much ground as poffibie, 



7f ROBINSON 

whirehy we may have provifions fufficientU 
carry on our dejign. f his advice T liked ex- 
tremely, and from that moment I always ef- 
tecmed the SpaDiard and made I^im my privy 
counfellor 00 all occafioDs. 

We all four went to work, and prepared 
as much ground as would fow twenty two 
bufiiels' of barley and fixteen oJF rice, which 
was all the feed we had to (pare : And at the 
fame time I took, all the care imaginable to 
increafe and preferve my goats by ihooting 
the wild dams, and taking the young kids^ 
putting them into the enclofures, and took 
fuch mcafures, that, by the blefllog of God, 
and our induftry, after harveft, we had pro- 
villous to victual a fhip for any part of Ame- 
rica. 

* The principle occafion being thus anfwer- 
ed, I gave my two amb^fladors a muiket each, 
with charges of powder and ball ; with pro- 
vifions fit for the. expedition, and away 1 
fent them ; they bad not been g^one a fort- 
night, but I began to be impafienc for their 
return. Whilfl my thoughu were perpetu- 
ally taken up with the expe^taion of thetn^ 
a very Itrange accident happened, which was 
fir ft difcovered by my man Friday ; who one 
morning came running unto me, crying out, 
they arc comet they are come. Upon which I 
jumped from my bed, and looked towards 
the (ea. I perceived a boat about a league 
and a half diftance, ftanding dire^ly in for 
the fhorc. I focn found that thcfe were 
none of the company that I cxpcftcd j for 
by the help of my glafs, I foun ' .that this 



tf it i^M % 77 

boat muft beloog to fome (hvp^ w4iich by 
caftlog my eyes about, I plainly. dHc;ovcrcd 
lying at anchor at feme diftaoce at fea ; which 
by the falhion of her long boar, See, I con* 
eluded muft be an Eoglifh vcflcl. 

Great were my tranfports upon this un> 
ezpe^cd fightj which brought into my mind 
frefh notions of deliverance ; and yet I had 
fome cautionary thoughts, which I confcfsi 
were of ufe tome afterwards. It was not 
IcDg before I faw the boat approach the fhore, 
iandthcn I was fully convinced that they were 
EoglHh. I faw four of them leap upon the 
flitire, and take three out with them, that 
looked like prifoners, who, I obferved, made 
paiSonate geflures of intreaty ; and not 
knowing what the meaning might be, I beck* 
oned to Friday to go to the top of the moua-^ 
tain, and make what difcoveries he could i 
when in a little while returning back, maf' 
ter (faid hi) you fee Englijb mans eat prifori' 
4rs as -well as favage mans ! But of this I 
fooo convinced him to the contrary ; and 
yet I could not help thinking but (here mu{^ 
be fomethiog very barbarous in hand. I 
could not perceive that they had any fire 
arms, but rather that they were preparing to 
kill their three companions with their iwords j 
and now it was Mamentcd my want of pow- 
er to prcfcrve them. However, to my great 
fatisfa£tioo, I found ihat they turned them 
up into the defolate ifland, at they thought, 
to be either (Carved or devotired by wilid 
beads, and then rambled about the wood to 
make obfervations, till the tide was gocc^ 
£fid the boat was aground^ ^2. 



r7« 



ROBINSON 




Iq (hort, I confidercd what fori of men I 
had DOW to deal with^ and therefore refolv- 
ed to aft with all the caution imaginable, 
^nd fo concluded it was bed not to make any 
attempt till it grew dark : but the day being 
cxcrfllvely hot, I concluded the Tailors were 
of courfe laid in the ihade to flecp ; and per- 
cet'^ing the three poor difconfolate creatures 
filling under a tree, at fomc imall diftancc 
from nte, I made no more to do, but went 
up to tbem, afking them, in the Spanifh 
tongue, what they were ? Ac which they 
ftartcd up and, being furprizcd atth*" oddncfj 
of my drefs, they began to avoid me j but I 
called to them io EagUih, Do not bi afraid^ 
Jar you have a friend nearer ta you than you 



CRUSOE, 79 

ixptSl ; Uil me your cenditiorit and if it be in 
my poweti I wili ferve you faithfully . Sir^ 
(fa id one of them) the ftory is too long at pre* 
fent : Iiuasmaftcr of that fhip that lies yon- 
der at anchor ; my men having mutinied^ it is 
a favour they havi put thiipajfengert my maSe, 
and /, on /bore on. this ijlind without murder' 
ing uit though we have no profpeSl but to per- 
ifb here^ for want of the necejfaries of life — 
Have they any fire arms ? iaid I. Only two 
fuzeest replied he, and one of them is now left 
in the boat ; and^ if the two defperate rogues 
that are with them could be takent I am pret- 
ty well ajfured the refi would return to their 
duty. Well, faid I, let us retire a Utile far- 
ther Udder the covering of the wood) aod ws 
will tauc farther ', aod there it was I made 
my coDdtiions with thero^ which thcf very 
gratefully and honsftly performed. 

It was cot long before wc came to a rslo- 
lution to go aod attack the villains ; the two 
men fired on them, and killed oae of (he 
captain's gteaceO: enemies, and wounded 
another ; the reft cried out for mercy, which 
was granted them^ upon condition they 
would fwear to be true to him, in helping 
him to recover his fhip which they all pro- 
mifed to do in a folema manner \ however, 
I advifed the captain to keep them bound, 
and then our next care was to fecurs the 
boats without which it was impoHlble to reach 
the fhip. 

To fliortcn the relation as much as pof* 
fible, we concer'cd all our meafurcs fo well 
tj^at at laf^i the ihip was rccuveted according 



80 ROB I N S N 

to our wiQi ; and now there remaiDed Bo^ 
thwg but the difpofal of the prifonerSi the 
moft daogerous of which we rcfolved to 
leave on the ifliod. I gave them arms, and 
ail the oeceiTancs I had in my caftle : and 
telling ihcm all my whole ftorys I charged 
them to be kind to the Spaniards ihat I had 
fent for over. They promifed me very fair^ 
and fo I informed them of every thiog neccf- 
lary for the-ir lubfiftance ; fo taklag with me 
man FnVay, my money, my parrot, &c. I 
went on board Where the Captain treated me 
as hii deliverer and behaved himfelf to me 
with the utmoft gratitude and civility. Upon 
the I2vh of Deamber^ 1686,' we fei fail, and 
landed in England the iithof 7u»^( 1687, 
after I had been abfent from my native coun- 
try upwards of thirty five years. 

After my arrival, and I had a little re- 
frclhed myfelf. I began to enquire into the 
ftaie of my affairs : I found my firft Cap^aib'^ 
widow alive, but in very mran circumfl*aacc$^^. 
Sooo after I went into Yorkfliire, where I 
found my family in general either dead or 
loft, fo that 1 koew not where to find them. 
I found that there w^^s no provifion m»de for 
me ; upon which I took my man Friday znd 
went toLifbon ia order to fiad the Portuguefc 
Captain, who took me 00 board on the coaft 
of Africa ; and to learn, f.om him, what was 
become of my plantation at the Bradls. Ac- 
cording ro my ^'(h, after fomr little fcarch I 
found him out, and he gavi me a very fatis- 
ia^tory account of all matters, more particu- 
larly of my pUntauoQ in the BraHis j vhkk 



C R U S S. Si 

had beco fo hoDcft^y managed in noyabfeDce, 
tharl)cyond my cxpcdtatlon, I found royfcif 
wpnb 4000 1. fterliog ; with which, as iqan 
as pofliblc. I rcfolvcd to make the bcft of my, 
way, to England v and by the advice of the 
Captain, I was perfuaded to go by land^ 
which had like 10 have proved fatal to mc 
and aH that were in my company 5 for the 
fnow's being fallen, the wolves and bears 
were driven out of the wood^, and though 
there were more than 20 of uj together, they 
fet upon us many times, and indeed, it was 
not without the greateil hazard apd difficulty 
we prefcrved ourfclves fcom being devoured, 
the partiular relation of wh^ch would bs too 
long to trouble the reader with. 

In our farther paffagc, through France, 
we met with nothing uncommon or remark- 
able i we got fafe to Paris, and after a (hort 
ftay there» went to Calais and landed at Dover 
«hc 14th of January in a yery cold feafon. 

When I came to London, I found my bills 
of exchange all arrived, aod the money ready 
to be paid at fight, which when I had receiv- 
ed, it came, into my mind to return to Lifbon, 
and from thence to the BrafiU, to look after 
my plantation ; but upon lecond thoughts, 
I concluded it bed to fell it, and on this ac- 
count I thought it proper to write to my cor- 
ipofldcnt at Lifbon, and deilre his advice and 
afilAance, who readily gave me his promtfe 
to do all he could for mc ; and in truth as i 
afterwards found he acquitted himfelf to me 
in every particular with the grcateft jufticc 
and integrity. 



82 ROBINSON 

In fhort, he fold my eflate for me to the 
beft advantage, and. remitted to me for it 
bills for three hundred and twenty pieces of 
eight, a fum much greater than I expe^ed. 
And now I began to think it high time to 
fettle myfelf, providence having made fuch a 
plentiful provifion for me that I wanted no- 
thing to make my(el( as happy as I could 
vifii. 

Having cafV my anchor, and for the prc- 
fent bid adieu to all foreign adventures, I 
had no other care or concern upon me but 
the education of my brother's two (ons. One 
of them I bred a Genfleman, and the other 
I bred an able failor ; and foon afterwards I 
married a virtuous young gentlewoman, of 
a good family, by whom I had two ions and 
a daughter j but, fhe dying, I grew difcon- 
folate and melancholy, and at the )n(liga- 
tion of my nephew, refolvcd I would once 
more make a voyage to the Eaftindiei, which 
I did \n the year 1689, and in my padgc 
vifited ray Iflaod. A full and particulas* ac- 
count of which 1 intend fhall be the fubjcdt 
of the fubfcquent parts of my narc^tive. 



FURTHER ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

•#• ♦$• 

Containing a full account of his travels and 
remarkabU tran/a^ions, both by fei and land. 

MY new kingdom raa coniioually in my 
mind and cook up my thoughts day 
anu night, infomuch that my wife took no- 
tice of ir, and would often tik me.the rcafon 
of my extraordinary thoughtfulnefs, fuppof- 
iog my marriage with her might be the caufe. 
Her tender and endearing expreffions, to- 
gether with the concern I had for the prefer* 
nation of aiy family at length brought me to 
a refoIutioD to fettle myfeif in fome fixed way 
of living ; accordingly, I bought a little farm 
in Bedfordfhire, and foon provided me a 
ilock with all other implements fit to manage 
it to the befl advantage, la this rural retire- 
ment 1 began fo think mylclf as happy as I 
could wifb, when on a fudden, all my hap- 
pinefs was dedrojcd by the unexpe£tcd death 
of my wife. 

Her death gave me a fort of contempt off 
the world, and filled me full of different 
thoughts and inclinations. My country life 
grew burthenfome to me : and in fhort, I 
left my farm, left off houfe keepingi and in 
a few fnonths afteri returned to London ; 



'84 ROBINSON 

but there I could fiad oothing to eotertaia 
me and divyrrt my melancholy It was the 
bcgioing of the year 1693, when my nephew^ 
whom I had bred up to the fea, was returned- 
from his voyage, Captain of the (hip he went 
out in ; who coming to me one morning, 
told me, it was propofed to him by fomc 
merchants to make a voyage to the Eaftindies 
and if I wouid go, he would undertake to 
land me upon my iiland, that I might have 
an opportunity to enquire into the (late oi 
my new kingdom. 

Juft before he came to me, it came into my 
thoughts to get a patent, and fill my lOana 
with inhabitants. What deviit laid I, fint you 
hither with this mejfage ? And though I 
liked the motloQ, yet I would not let him 
Ieoow it at firfl ; however^ after a little paufe^ 
I told him if he would Itt me down and call 
for me at his return, I would ceitainly go 
with himt As to calling for me as he camS 
back he told me it was imp racSli cable. But 
faid he, / will tell you what we can do : -we 
may have ajloop ready framed on boards which 
we may eajily put together at any time^ and 
ym may return at your pieofure, 

I was not long in foritiiog my refolutionsy 
but contrary to the advice of all my friends, 
I fully dctcrmiDed to undertake the voyage ; 
and, in order to it, I made my Will, and put 
all my affairs in the bcft pofturc I could 
poffibly, and fowith my tniAy itivKxii Friday 
in the beginning of January ^ 1694, 1 went on 
board, and took with me feveral aTtificers, 



cy n u s E, s; 

wrth a good^ cargoc, for the better ftockiog 
of my iflaod. 

Wc had DOt been long out at fea, but we 
wcrfl overtaken by a (lorm, which drove us 
upon the coaft ofi Ireland, ss far as Galwayr^ 
whcre-we were obliged to ftay twcoiy dayt 
for a wind. On the 5th of February, ihc 
wind' prefented, and we bad a very good 
gale for fcvcral days. On the 20th in the 
eveoiog, the mate called out, that hehw-z, 
fi;t{hof fire, aod heard a goo ; upon which 
wc ati ran to the quarter deck, from whence, 
at a drftaoce we (aw a tenible fire, which, 
from our reckocing) we concluded ecu id be 
00 ochcr than a fhip that had taken 6re at 
fea, and that it could not be far cff by there- 
port of the gKD, which wc heard fcvcral 
Srixy^s^ W&made to it with all our (aii, and 
ion perceived it was a great {hip burni&g in 
the nrriddle of the fea ; 1 immediately order- 
ed five guos to be fired, that the poor peo« 
pie might perceive that there was delivereocd 
at haod, who confequently might lifk their 
lives in their boats ; nor was it long before 
the (hip blew up. 

We hung out our ianthorcs, and about 
eight m the morning, when it began to be 
light, we faw two boats making towards us, 
and we made a figoal for them to come on 
board and tock them al! up, beiog men, wo* 
mfn and children, in all fizty four. It was 
a French fhip of 300 tons, bound from Ca-. 
nada, and by the negligence of the ftcerfman 
it was fctoufire in the ftccrage ; fo that 
in all probability; if providence had not fcnt 
H 



86 : ROB I N S N 

ul to thdr affiftance, ihcy had every foul pc* 
riflied. 

Never were peapic, certainly (o ove j^ycd 
as tbefc poor creatures wcic. Among the 
paffcng'-TS there were two pricfts, an o'd oqc 
and a yrung one 5 the old one was a {^upid 
fellow, but ihc young one was a very molcft 
fine gentleman. After their furprizc was 
p'-crfy well ov:r,and they had been refreflied 
in the b.fl mancer our (hip would allow, the 
captain and one of the pricfts dedred to f eak 
with me, and otF-rcd u« the money and jew- 
els they had favcd, which I rcfufcd, telling 
them, cur buftncfs was to fave them, and not 
to plunder them. They told us, what they 
had to dcfire of us was, to fct them on fhorc 
iomc where in. our pafTage. As to landing, 
we told ihem, that being bound to the Eaft- 
]odies» we could not do that without cbaog- 
ing our couiie, and that wc could not jufti- 
fy ; but we would carry them till we met 
w'th a ihip bound either to England or 
France, that would rake them on board ; 
however, our provifions. bcgiaoing to fall 
fhoft, wc rcfolvcd to land them at Newfound- 
land, which was not much out of our way : 
acd sccoidiogly, as we propofec^, in about a 
week's time wc came to the banks of New 
foucdland. where they hired a bark to carry 
them to France, all but the young pricfl aud 
two or thtce of the iailors, wiio chofe to go 
wiih uf . 

Now direfting our courfc to the S. S E. 
about twenty days after we met with another 
atlvcQiurc, that g^vc us a fr(.fh opportunity 



CR u\s: vr£, rs7 

■ to cxcrcifc ourbumaoity. lb latitude of 27, 

■ wc faw a fail bcaiicg toward! us that had loft 
allher iFafts,& firing a gun in token of difti^cf*; 
the wind being N. wc fooo came up to fpcak 
to her, and found her to be a (hip of 6 iiVpl^ 
bound home from Barbadoes, that had been 
liiivcn out of the road by a furious hurri- 
cane. They had been tcfTcd about forfcve- 
ral days, and were a'rooft ftarvcd for want of 
provifions, having eaten nothing for clevea 
days. 

In this (liip were three pafTngcrs^^ gen- 
tlewoman, her ion and a maid fci vaot ; thefe 
we found in a moft mifcrable condition that 
can be imagined. The woman died, aud it 
was with the grearcft difficulty that we pre- 
fcrvcd <he young man and maid, whomj at 
their ictrcatyj after we had fupplied the (h^p 
with what we could fpare, we took on board 
cur own (htp. We were now in latitude 
19 ; but paflicg by fome little iDcidcnts. I 
ihail relate what is moft remarkable relating 
to my little kingdom, to chichi was cowr 
drawirg nigh. It was with no fmall trouble 

■ that wc get to rbe fou^h fi'^e of my iflinc ; 
however, at bCl we came to sn anchor as the 

' mouth of the iitilc creek, and then I foca 

• faw my old csUlc, aLd kcew perfcftiy^hire 

• I was. 

Wh?c i was cc^'Ma of the p'«ce, I cal'ed 
■ toTidav, and t^ik^.d him i? he k^eiy where 
he waj ? But i^lcn he looked a Hftlf, he 
c'app'^d his hanr^s, cry rg, O^Jov ! ih re ! 
ya ! the^e ! Alf ftelMejcz !1 hers much 
Mtn I and' th'^g ' zni icM io jijmpiijgjjad 
dancing its if he were mad. 



88 no B IN SON 

When the Engliih aDtient was fpreadi aad 
we had fie cd three guos, to let them know 
We were friendi, I hung cut the white flag^ 
and fo w'rh the young prieft, and my maa 
Friday, I w<nt on ftiorc. And who (hould 
be the firfV m^n I faw, but the Spaniard, 
whofe life 1 had fav^d ; and Friday, who faw 
his father at a dtfiance, ran to him wiih all 
the joy imagmab(f| and embraced him with 
extreme itnicrnc(s. 

I was the iotH of April that I fet my foot 
on ftijre the fecond tim?, when my faiihful 
Spaniard) accompanied by one mofe, came 
Up to me ; he did not koow me at firft ; but 
when I had hioted to him who I was, no man 
could cxp^efj or behave himfclf wi h greater 
g'au'U^c. He rock me, by the hand, and 
alkcd me if I would not go and takr. pofTcf- 
iion of my old habitation, where I found 
they bad madeconiiderable improvements. I 
alk:d him fevcral queftioos, and he at readily 
aniwercd me, telling me withal what ftrange 
coofuiion they had with the Engliflimen, who 
dcfigncd to have murdered them : While we 
were talking, the man whom he had fent re- 
turned with eleven more. Thefc, faid he, arc 
fome of jhofc that owe their lives to your 
goodnefs. Aad after he had made them fen* 
ilbie who I waf, they all faluted me in a very 
grateful a«d handfome maoner. 

Before I relate what happened in the i{i« 
and, as it was related by the Spaniard, my 
Governor, 1 muft not omit a iioi y which f 
omitted in my former narrative. Juft before 
we weighed sochor, there happened aquar* 



CRUSOE. 59 

re! on board, which by the care of the cap- 
taio, was timely prevented, though not wich- 
out fome didictiity : and indeed, fo far it 
proceeded, that two fellows, that had been 
the ring leaders, found means in the night| 
to get iome arms, and the ihip's boat, and 
gotaway to the illind, and joined theif bro- 
ther rogues ; fo that now there were five En- 
g!ifh in the ifland, which, as the Spaniard re* 
ports in the following narration, was the 
cauie of great diiorder and confuiioQamongft 
tbcm. 



The Spaniard*! relation of what happened in 
he IJland^ ffom my departure till my fecortd 
landing, 

YOU may remember, Sir, you fent me oa 
a voyage ; and indeed, I was not a lit- 
fui prized to find, at my rciufo, thuyou had 
left u = . Ws had a very good p flagr ; and 
indeed, my countrymen were overjoyed to 
find I hid {o miraculoufl/ efcaped \ and 
when I bidfliswfd the arms aad ammuoision 
which I had bioupbt, they wcie tranfporied 
to the high ft degree. After a little ftay, we 
got what we could from the fivag $, made 
bold-wirh two of their canon's, and \o cjmc 
all Of <3$ over to the iland ; wiierc vf hzA 00 
foonrr landed, but we fcuud the Eaglifhmen 
had quarrfUcd with one anotac \. an had 
attempted to murder aod delirr.y tVeir ff-'- 
Jows, and were often v?iy near pu(«irg the r 
wicked prat^iccs in cxfcution. 

One day it hippencd, that 3$ iw^of ry 
SDanlards were in the* wooes, on<; t^t the iv;- 

H2 



90^ R B 1 N S N 

bereft of the EDgl'ihtncn came up to them, 
and made hfavy comp'ainu how cruelly they 
were ufcd by their countiytneu, and that it 
tvc did not take ihem under our protc^ioa 
and g*ve thtm .ffirtancc, they muft ioeviia- 
b'y be ftarvcd and ucdocc. When ihcy catBie 
to iuppcr, one of the Spaniard^i in a gentle 
atd trieidiy tnanoer, brgan to repvimaod 
the mutinous Eaglifhmen : that it was a gre2t 
pi:y their counuymen (hculd pe ifti, end 
therefore iQtrta?cd ihcm to fcffr thtir 
countrym-n topocurcthci: fubfiftencc with- 
out farther dif^ub'^Dce ; to wbirh tbey le- 
plied, iet thtm ftirve and be damn d for the ijl- 
land is ours, and if they wiii not iioik for i^f, 
th^y fhaii have no /bare i n it. Com^ 'fack (aid 
^Aikios) 'whojhjil dare to build in our dcmird* 
onr without our co^fent ? And as we ancr- 
Wards fcund c u*", thry had c^^si^iniy murder- 
ed th.nri, if they h^d not been prevented ; 
Howtyer, they pulled down their hu^s, aod 
did them all the damage thty poffibiy could. 
When they had done this viiiacy» ihey came 
back to the ca(\le, boafting of what they bad 
-done ; when one taking hold of a Spaniard** 
hat» iwirlfd it round, frying, /2rjrf>'0« Sygni* 
cr Jick Spaniard fhall have the jarm fauct if 
you do not mend your manners, Tts quarrel 
In a (hort time grew fo high, that U wc had 
tot timely interpofed and taken away their 
arms, in ail probability there bad been mur- 
der. 

Thcfe wicked fe'lowj, perceiving that thry 
hai made all of u$ their enemies, began to 
rcicRt, and 40 beg for their arms, bur tbk 



CRUSOE. 



91 



we pefli Ively rcfufcd, which made them Co 
mad and dcfpcrafc, that thfy left u$ la the 
greateft pafiijn ioiaginablc. They were 
hardly gene b' t their two coun'rymco came 
t& us with their complains, lei ing us tbcy 
were luincd ; and truly fir, wc c uid not 
help tbiaking it v-ry ha d, thai nireteea of 
us Ihould, from ticae to I'm-, be bullied and 
iolul.cd by thiec (uch norori us villains. 

It %7a$ with fo me clifficu'jy we peduadcd 
their two couM'rymco from parluiog and 
klling them wi h their fie armij but upon 
cur promifing rhaii they fhiuld havr jjfticc 
done them, thy dcllfted. About fjve d^ys 
af^er, bciog almoft ftasvcd, rhcy c^me to us 
in a very (ubm (Eve m nofr, and bcgg-d 
hcarti'y to have th ir a.ms tcftared, which 
upon certain ccnditiocs we at laft graated. 
But (o great was their viilaioy that thee 
had not p;ft above three days, but ibcy be- 
gan their old trade ag^in. 

And DOW it was that ao acci^fen? bnppfn- 
cd, that not only ob'iged us to hy aiide ^U 
private animcfiiies, but likcwiie to provide 
ior our mutual f.^curi y. 

Oac night, as I lay io my bed, I wis dif- 
tuibedwi'-h unufual fears and appteb^nfions, 
I got up, and related the marker so one 
o^ my Spsoifh frieoHs» *ho aofwc/ed, /uch 
hints were not io bejlighted ; and a Jvii>*1 ms 
to look oa* carc'"ully ; ?.diing. th^t certainly 
there was Jor.e tnijchief upon the Jiocks, Ac- 
cyrdii;gly, we went up to the ttp of the 
mountain, where we ditcovercd a =g'it, aiud 
iicaid the voi€C$ of fiv^ial acoj wliivh icni^ 



94 R0BJN30N 

ficd us exceedingly. We could not eel! what 
to corjf^urc, and therefore fcnt out old Fri- 
day as a fpy» to Cry if be could learn who, 
and from whence they were ; he returned 
in a y«ry fhort time, and brought us word^ 
that they were two different parties ^ of differ* 
ent nations : and that after a bloody battle, they 
had landed there by mere chance^ in order to de* 
vour their prifoners ; and that he believed as 
Jhon as it was light, a bhody battle would en* 
fue. Oid Friday had hardiy ended his rela- 
tion, but ao UQufudl noife gave us lo undcr- 
ftand that the engagjrmeat was begun ; and 
cothiDg could be more bloo(*y and obftinate, 
nor mcQ of more invincible fpirits, nor more 
aft^vc and ready in their way of fighting. 

We were undoubtedly, fir« in a great con- 

Aernationi ic(l they (hou!d run into our 

grovCj and dcftroy what we had, and fo re- 

lolved to put ouff'^lv'jf upon our defence, 

and (hoot the fi<ft that fhould approach; 

and as we appreheodcd, fo it happened ; for 

three of the army that was vao^uifticd, came 

dirc^ly to the place for (hcltcr *, But thc(e I 

would not fuffer to be 11 iio, but had them 

iurp<iz:d and taken alive : and in truth, 

they all proved very excellent fervants, and 

were of grcac ufe to us afterwards. The two 

parties bing gone cff, and the coaft clear, 

we went to the^ p'ace of battle, where w€ 

found two and thirty dead upon the fpoij 

with fcveral bows and arrows^ a'^d other forts 

of weapons, w'^ich I ordered to be tarefuUy 

p'ckcd up and carried into our armouiy. 

liiis diimal ipcdaclc hsd cLat eB:t6t upOQ 



€ R U 3 E. 93 

the three troublefome EDglilhmeQi that much 
of their turbulent temper begaa to abate^ 
aod they begaa to be good friends, aud to 
thiok uoanimoufly what was bed to be done 
for our mutual lecority and prcfervation,— * 
And, accordingly, all hands were at work to 
(Ireogtheo the fortifications of our Caille, 
and provide a proper fccurity for all our pro- 
Videos s ^^^ indeed, we did both with al! 
the caution that (he natueof our circum- 
ftanccs would aliow. And thus for tw? years 
we lived in a very comfonable retirement, 
having neither feen or heard auy thing of ihe 
Savages for all that tim^» 

But now there happened another quarrel, 
which might have proved of very bad confe- 
qiieoce, if it bad not been prevented ia time. 
The three wicked £ag ifhmen being the ag- 
grc^ors, I ordered them to be difarmed, and 
left »he cafe to be determined by the other 
two Eog ifhmen, who icntenced them to be 
haoged» alledging. among other things, that 
they had a defign to murder us, aod only 
deferred it till a proper opportunity ; upon 
which I aikvd Atkins, who was the ring lea- 
der, what we had done to them to defeive to 
be murdered, or what he hac^to fay for him- 
fcif, wly wc (hould not immediateiy kill him, 
who had fo med fuch a villainous dcfigo to 
murder us ? In truth, the Englifljmcn prcfT- 
ed veiy hard to hang one of them for an ex- 
ample to tbe others \ but this I would by no 
means confent to, upon the con^deration 
that I owed my life to an Eoglifhrnan, to 
you fifi my only prefervcr ^ however, to put 



94 ROBINSON 

It rut of th.-ir power to c'o u» any farther 
STiifchief, wc derennincd, »h«»t for the future^ 
flicy (h 'uM hsvc do arms of any fort ; and 
th^t if fhty did agiin attempt to give the So* 
C'cy any manner of diftuibarce, th^'n we 
would immediately fhf^ctihcm likew^ld beaf^St 
After this I ordered them fome provifion foe 
their prefent fubfiftcocc, aod apooio'cd them 
a place in a remote part of the ifliod. wh^re 
they might plant and make what improve* 
ment' they thought prcp-r. 

They had lived fix m* nfht in this f^rparatc 
flatior, and had got in ibeir firft harveft 5 
which, «hit (ca(oR, w s but Vfiy Imall, as 
they weie na?oral!y not only very idle, but 
had eves y ihing to begin anew! aod what was 
worfc, were but very iodifferpnt workmen' at 
the b:ft. Thefe fcilors growing desperate 
and weary ok working, rook a new whim into 
their heads, which might have been oi fatal 
coclijqucnce. Nothing «yould fcjve them, 
but they muH" ne^ds hiske a v yagc 10 the 
coniiDert, to try M they could fez^ iome of 
thbic Savages, and make them fltvet toMo 
thtir drudgfyy ; and indeed the pjrjcdt was 
DOt fo prcpoileious, if ibey had rot been ac- 
tustcd by wicked not^'ons and i^cfi. d«. 

One moroiag ilicy came to their limits, dc- 
iisirg to rpeak with us ; which being granted 
ihcy told us ihcy were tired of that ftatc of 
life, acd if we wou d give fhf m one of twt 
ca-30c$, ihev wru'd go ardfcfk their fortunes 
sbruad. and nfvcr trouble us more. You 
may be fare, fir, we were nor a iit*lf glad to 
' be freed from fuch troublcfomc companioi(iS ; 



C R U S E. 95 

finw^V^r, wc rcprefented the dagger of it ; 
by finding ooth'ng wouM change rh-ir Rw- 
fjlutioD, wc cjnfcntcd ih y Ih^ulJ have ons. 
oi our caaofs, and at the {zj:\e timis g^ve 
them lams fi''? arms, amnnuaition and pro- 
yiii n ; and as foon as thcf had fi ted out 
thci« b-jar^tbeyaJ^iriy failed away, the Span- 
iards at the iamc tia^e callicg a-tcr thccn and 
wfhmg them a good voyage. And in truth, 
Duching could be farther fiom our thoughts, 
than the poiiibiiify of feeing them any more; 
yet fcarcely a m n;h had p fr;d9 but one of 
our Engliflim^D, being abroad at work, hw 
three men well armed coming towards him ; 
upon which, away he fli'^s to bring us intelli- 
gence, telling Uf, wf wsrf all undone^ for there 
luere men upon the ijlind that weri not Sav 
ages ! While wc wcie conQJcring the tventa 
up came the three Englifhmen, whom we 
prcicntly knew by their voices ; and then cur 
wonder ccalcd. Our DfXt er quiry was into 
the nature and manner of their voyage, and 
the reafoQ of their fo fpeedy Tctiiro 4 of all 
vrhich one of them gave the following rela?ior : 
After two days fail, wc reached Jand ; but 
fading the inhabitants favages, and comi' g 
wi{h their bows a: d a. rows to give us au un« 
welcome reception, w« thought it proper to 
make ihe b ft of our way fteei ing northward. 
%... In our palTige we discovered fcvcral liitic 
Iflinds which (eemed to be inhabited ; at one 
of which we rcf c Ivrd to go or ihorc at all haz- 
ards; whi.hacco. dicg-y wcdid»at one tbar l^y 
moft to the weft ; here we fcuod ihc nav'vts. 
vtry courteous to us, giving us wLai ihcy* 



9^ ROBINSON 

could procure. Among thefe bofpitabfc in* 
diaus wc (laid fcvcral days, ecquif ing bf figns 
what oaticDi lay near them, aud were iDform* 
ed that there were kVeral Natioos that lay 
nigh to them, that were accuftomed to cat 
maokind, but for their parts, ihcy were not 
accuftomed to eat fuch fort of diet, except 
fuch as Jhey took in battle. We enquired 
fac¥^ long it was fince they had had a batilCi 
and whether thty had any prifoners ; to 
which they matdc aoiwer, by their fign* that 
that it was about two months, and their Ki::g 
had DOW two hundred prifoatrrs, which he 
rcfcrvcd for the fl^ogbter. Mighty dcfiroiis 
tve were to fee thoie prifoners ; wbich they 
ir/iftook, and thought wc wanted fotne for 
our own ufe, And ma-ie figni, that at thcntxt 
rifiogof the Sun, we (houTd have iomc ; and 
accoi dinghy, at th^ ve^y nmc, ihey brought 
us eleven men and five women, jtrft as cows 
and oxen arc brought to a fea port town 5 a 
fight ik^x g^vc u$ ai! a gr?at deal of horror, 
ard iB^hat to do wcciu'd not tell ; to refulc 
them wc knew would be an unpardonable 
affiont, and to difpofc of thf ni wc knew not 
how. However, wc refolvcd to accept of 
them, and gave them i > return a few fiflics 
that we had in the caaoe \ (o taking cur 
leave, we failed to the next iflacd, where wc 
fct eight of the men at liberty ; with the reft 
wc made the bell or our way to oar ifland \ 
and though we treated ihcm all as well as we 
cru d, we could by 00 means convince themi 
bu^ that they were to be killed and devoured. 
Thus, Sir, ended ihc narrative of thcfc 



CRUSOE. gj 

thfcc dcfperadors; whereupon I afkcd him 
whcfc their dcw family waj, chufing to fee 
them *, they told me, they were at their huts ; 
fo we all weot to fee them. 

When we came to the huts, we found t^ree 
well proponiottcd men, and five women, all 
naked & bound, four of them might be trom 
twenty four to forty, but the other wa? a 
comely Maiden of about Icventcen ; they 
were all very agreeable, and their behaviour 
lecmcd to be very modeft. Their naked ap- 
pearance» with the mifery of their ConditioDi 
wat no very agreeable fight. 

But now| Sir, having Women among Uf, 
which I thought might fomstimes occafiOQ 
Quarrels, I aiked the three Eogliihmen how 
they propofcd to diipcfe of ihcir famllief 4 
adding, that I was not going to lay any re- 
flraint on them ; only I would deiirej that 
they would each take one *, and, after they 
had chofen which they had a mind to> no 
bther man fhould prefume to touch her.— 
Well to this they all agreed ; and fo they 
concluded to draw lots for the choice. 

And now, Sir, I lay before you a fcene 
quite different from any thing that has beea 
related. One morning, v.:ry early, there 
came five canoes of Indians on fhore, oa 
their old account of devouring their prifon- 
ers ; all that we could do was to lie conceal- 
ed till their bloody ceremony was over, and 
to take proper meafures to defend ourfelves 
IB cafe of need. But, notwithfiaodiirg all 
oor cautions, there happened an unhappy 
dilftfteir, that had like to have occafioned the 
I 



98 no B 1 N S N 

otter defoIatioD of the ifliod ; for, after the 
favag^s «rcrc gone oiF, tny Spaniards and I 
lookii g out to m;4ke obiervations. we found 
three liivaQres that had gorged themfeWes 
lying, faft aflccp upon the ground. 

What to do with them we could not tell ; 
to niurdcr them we thought would not be 
judiBabie according to the law of Chriftiaoi- 
ty, havir g no previous quarrel with them ; 
at lafl; we thought it adviieable to fecure 
them alive, and fct them about fome work 
or oiher, till wc could difpofc of them ; and 
accordiog'y we took them prifoners, and car- 
ried them fifO: to our cadle, and then to 
the two EogliQii who foon found them em- 
ployment ; but for want of keeping a ftrift 
guard over them, one of them got away into 
the woodsj and was not heard of for Tome 
time. 

This unlucky accident gave us great ap- 
preheniioos that, by fome way or other, this 
lavage would find Means to get into his own 
country, and inform his countrymen how 
weak we were, and confequently that they 
would come over and deftroy us all ; nor in- 
deed were our notions ill grounded ; for, in 
eight months after, there came fix canoes, 
with ten men in each* and landed within le(s 
than a mile of the Engli(hman*s habitation, 
who, with the grcateft terror imaginable, let 
their milch goats iool'c into the woods, and 
ran to their iccret cave, rcfolving to defend 
thcmijlvcs till we could come to their aflift- 
aace. 
It wat not long before they could Ice their 



CRUSOE. 99 

habitatiODS in flames, and the lavages io pur- 
(utt ot them id fiveral fmall parties ; upoa 
which they rock tbeir ^aod at a coovcDieoc 
pisice» a> d detcrmUied to defend themfclves 
to the very laA extiemity. 

While they were thus expcdliog them, the 
favages cameoo ; one of cbem was the run* 
away, who had been the caufe of this mif- 
chief ; and he they refolved fhould be the 
firft that fuffered» let what would be the con- 
fequence *, and accordingly, as was concert- 
ed, the firft let fly j and indeed he took his 
aim fo well that he killed the foremoft out- 
right, jQiot the ruti-away through the body, 
and bounded the third. 

Sad and dreadful was the out cry the 
wounded Indians made, beicg quire inienQble 
from whence their fuddeo dc(tru£tioo carne, 
and as we were informed, believed that ihcy 
were dcftroyed by thunder and lightning, 
having never before heard or fecn any thing 
like a gun. Whilft they were in this con- 
itcrnatioD, the £ngii{hman had time to new 
load their guns, and, firing both together up- 
on another party of five, who were ftanding 
by the two they had wounded, they tcU to 
the grouod as if they hKi been killed ; upon 
which the two SngUihrneG wsnt to ttiem, 
without charging their giins, which was a 
very wrong ftcp ; for, wiicn they wcjc cosie 
up, they touod four of thetn alive, two flight- 
ly wounded, and ore not at ail. Upon 
which they were forced to take the but cntis 
of their muikcis acd knock them on the 
head, and took him that was not wouaded 



loo R :^ IN S 0:.P7 

and bound him at the foot of a tree hard by^ 
and rhcD made ail the hal^e they could to- 
.wards the cave to (ee if all was well there f 
?tnd, finding every thing fafe, they came back 
CO the tree where they leh the Indian bound, 
«nd found, CO their ^reat furprife, he wa« 
gone. Now they were in greater fear and 
confuHon than before ; bat while they were 
confideriDg what was proper to do, fevea 
Spaniards came up to them, bringing with 
them that very indian the Engli&men had 
left bound under the tree, whom the Span- 
iards had relcafed in their way. 

This great reinforcement fo mnch encou- 
raged the two Eoglilbmen, and io g^eat was 
their indignation tor the lofs of their huts, 
that they could day oo longer ; but taking 
the Spaniards with them, all well armed, 
away they went in pUrfuit of the reft of the 
ravages ; but* from a riiing ground they per- 
ceived that they were got on board of their 
caooes, and were gone out to fea, too far to 
be come at, which gave them a new matter 
for fear and apprehenfioo, left they fhould 
go home dire^ly, and inform their brethren 
of all that bad happened, and incite them to 
come over with greater poweri and deftroy 
the whole ifland. And as we judged, io it 
happened ; for in lefs than ieven months, 
ihfry came over with twenty five canoes, and 
landed upon us with two hundred and £fty 
men, all well armed with bows and arrows, 
and other formidable weapons. 

Tou may imagine. Sir, we were in no 
fmali conftcroationi upon the approach of 



i: n nr s E, loi 

thcfc unwelcome guefts ; nor were we want- 
ing to make the bcft preparation we could 
to defend ourfelTcs ; we armed our faithful 
ilaves in the bcit manner we could, nor 
would our women be perfuaded from fight- 
ing along with us^ as they reioWed to con- 
quer or die with their hufbands, whom chev 
now loved with the greateft tendernefs and 
paffion. 

Of this little army I was commander in 
chief ; and Will. Atkins, whom I knew to be 
a fellow of invincible courage, I appointed 
for my Lieut. General, & gave him dx choice 
men, well armed, to command as a fcpa- 
rate bady. In a fliort time the fight began 
on Atkin«' quarter, who ordered his Men to 
fire into the thickeH of them. Never were 
creatures in greater terror and coodernationf 
at rmaginiog their deftruftioa to come from 
the Gods ; and if Atkins had obeyed my or- 
ders, and retreated unperceived, they had fled 
to their canoes, without any farther attempt ; 
but fedng him and his fmall party, they 
came on again with the greateft fury. 

In ihort, we were forced to iotcrpofe with 
our whole body, to fave Atkins and his par- 
ty, who was prcffed very hard, and had one 
of the EogHfhmen killed by his fidei and was 
himfclrf wonndcd. We gave three volleys, 
but they were grown (o dcfperate that not- 
withftandiog our fire, they came up in the 
very teeth of us, infomuch that we were 
forced to retire, and in truth, I muft owup 
that, if oight had not given us a little refpite, 
we muft have been in a great deal of danger^ 

I 2 



102 ROBINSON 

As foon as poflible I drew my Tittle army 
upon a rifiQg ground, where, by the light of 
the moon> wc could obfcrvc the favagcs in a 
great deal ofdiiordcr; upon which we coo- 
cludcd it would be bcft to fall upon them 
now, and, if poflTblc, to give them a volley 
undifcovercd j which wedid,by theguidaoce 
of the two Eogliihcncn, who knew the ground 
perfedly ; after this wc gave them three vol- 
lies more, and then ruflbed in upon rhcra with 
our fwords with fuch irrcfiftlble fury, that 
they gave way, and, making a diimal (cream- 
ing and howliog, they betook themfelvcs to 
their hcc!$. Many of them were killed in 
the flight but indeed wc wc?c To exceedingly 
tired with fighting thcfe two battles, that we 
did not then purfuc them to their canoes, ia 
which we concluded that they would imme- 
diately get to fea ; but there happening a 
dreadiul florm, rhey were prevented in that, 
and maoy of their canoes were loft into the 
bargain. 

After we had taken iome refrefhment, 
and a little repofe, we refolved, as loon as it 
was light, to go to the place of battle, in or- 
der to make what obfervations we could; 
and coming at leogcH to a full view of the 
remaioder of their army, wc found them ly- 
ing in a mifcrable pofture ; and when we 
came within mulkei fhot, I ordered two guns 
to be fired, in order to try if they had any 
notion of coming to another engagement ; 
and the project anfwered (a effectually, that 
they no fooner heard the report of the firft 
gUD| than they ftarted up^ and ia a mQft 



CRUSOE. 103 

ftftoDiihiDg cnacner, ran away intu the moun- 
taios. Though I coofeis I bad much rather 
the weather would have fufFcred ihcm to have 
gone off, without giving us faiihcr froublc ; 
for now the cafe was, what tnuft be done 
with this great number of favags creatures. 
Great were our debates on thi? point, howe- 
ver, after mature coofideraiioa, it was deter- 
mined to dcftroy their ciaocs ; which vvhen 
the Indians faw, they made the moft hideous 
out cries ; but to no purpofc, for we ciihcr 
bijtrnt or difabled them all, after which ihcy 
ran about a long tim^, and, as they had no 
arras, nor materials to make any, fo, notwith- 
(landing their numbers, we were the lefs ap- 
prehenfivc of being furprizedby them. 

Indeed our ftock of provifions was fo very 
fmall, that we came to a refolunoa to drive 
them up into fome remote corner of the ifl- 
2od| and to kill as many of them as we could 
catch, in order to leiTen their number, and 
then give them fome corn to plant, Puriu- 
ant to this refolution, we purfued them with 
our guns, killing every day one or more, till 
at Icng'h their number was fo reduced; that 
we concluded, if poffiblcjto take one of thcra 
alive, which at laft, with fome difficulty we 
eff-£ted ; and ufiag him kiniiy, w*: brought 
him to old Friday, who told hinri if they 
would fubmit and do what they were com- 
manded, they (hould be ufcd well, otherwifc 
they (hould all be fliin, & bid h'na go and af- 
fure his companions fo, who were in a naoft 
saiferable ftarving condition. 
The poox creasiir^s^ who were qow reduced 



104 ROBINSON 

to thirty ieven, received this offer with aU 
the joy imaginable^ to we ffot them feme 
food, which they ate with great thankful- 
Defii and made ali the promifes we could de« 
^re, and to give them their due, they have 
never brolce aoy of them to this day. 

And thuff Sir, according to the bsft of my 
ability, I have given you an account of what 
it material,, that has happened in the ifland 
iince your departure, to this day ; by which 
you may perceive the wonderful works of 
providence. 

When you iofpeft into the ifland, you will 
^nd it fomethiog improved in general, your 
eorn and flocks increafed, and the number 
of your fubje^ts To far augmented, that from a 
defolate ifland, as it was before your deliver^ 
ance, here is a profpeft, with a little induftry 
and gQod management, that it may at length 
become ^ populous and plentiful little kiog^ 
dom. 

Thtendof the Spaniard*j r/iathn. 



A continuation cf the lije cf Robin/on 
Crufoe, 

THERE is no doubt to be made but that 
the Spaniard gave me a faithful ac- 
count, which was exceedingly agreeable to 
roc, and no lefs furpriiing to the young pricft 
and to all the. reft who heard i: : nor were 
ihcfe people lefs picafed with ihc ncceffarics 
I brought them, which were a great help to 
them in perfecting their habitation. Will. 
Atkins was grown a very fober man, and 
had built his hut with great ingenuity. The 
Eogiifhmen's wives were all fruitful enough, 
and bore-each a child once a year. 

When I enquirod of the Spaniard con- 
cerning their manner of living among the 
favagcs, they gave me a very deplorable rela- 
tion or it, adding that they bad hardly any 
hopes of fupport or deliverance. 

Many were the methods they took to in- 
ftru£t the favages, but to no purpofe *, for 
tkey, ignorant as they were, would give no 
ear to the ioftrudtions of thofe to whom they 
owed their lives. At the returD of their 
friend, who they thought had been devour* 
«d, their joy was great, efpecially when they 
faw the loaves of bread which I feot them \ 
but when they heard the errandi and per- 
ceived the boat, their traofporcs were ioex* 
preffible. This was the account I had from 
tkem, and now it follows that I fliould in- 
form the reader in what coDdition I left 
them. 

At it was generally agreed that they (hould 
bave no mere difturbiacc from the favages. 



io6 ROBINSON 

fo I told them I had made this voyage chiefly 
for their (ake$, aod that i came aot to remove 
them, but rather to eitabiiili and £x them 
upOQ the iflaDd *y and for that cod, I ha^ 
brought them all forts o^ neccflaries and ar- 
tificers, with other perfoos that would not 
ooiy addto their Dtimber, a^kd CQuicquently 
to their defence, hut would likewile be a 
mutual help and fupport to ihem. They 
were all together wbeo I talked to them in 
this manner* I afkcd them, one by one» if 
they had entirely forgot their former aotmo- 
fiiies, and would engage in the Aii^efb 
fiiendfliip ? to which Atkins replied, they 
had bad ^fHi^ions enough to make them ali 
fuber, and enemies enough to make them all 
friends ; adding, that he had moft juftly de- 
feivcd the treatment be had received from 
the Spaniards, and that he was only to be 
bkmed. Upon which the Spaniards rcpliedi 
chat iince WHt. Arkbs had, upon alloccad- 
ons, behaved himlelf fo vaiiantly in their de- 
fence, all that was paft (hould be forgotten, 
that he jObculd have his arms, and be made 
the next commander to the governor. 

Upon fhele kind declarations of mutual 
love and fricndfh^p, we concluded to dine 
together on the morrow ; which we did in 
the bed order and formality that the nature 
of the place woiiid p<;£mii ; and afrer that, 
I dil^iiouted to every one of them his ponion 
cf the Decenaries I had brought over, ar^d 
then divided ihe iflacd into thi^e dirtinik co- 
lonics, making my old babitaiion the metro- 
poiis, which the 5f aaiardf inhabited. 



CRUSOE. I&7 

The yruDg mani whofe mcthcr wa« ftarv- 
edtodvat'i) as bef.'re menuoneo' and the 
matd, who was indeed a pious vrtuous 
y^ung w^maOt feeing ih" g 'od difp' fiion ofc 
aflutifs, dfopped their rcr^lutiao o' gai< g fo 
tfec Eaftiadies, and bath dcfifcd I would per- 
mit them to ftay 09 the ifl^od and eaicr 
ihcm among my fubjrftj, wiiich I readily a- 
grccd to ; and the young woman was at»cr- 
wards married^ as will appsar by the fcquel 
of the ftory. 

And now I come in courfe to fpeak of the 
young French prieft, whofe pious behaviour, 
and cxcsllcni difcourfes were extremely a- 
grccablc, and defcrve a particular obfcrva- 
tioD. Sayi he to rae one day, fiace, under 
God, I owe you my life, I Ihali take care to 
employ it to do as much goodie and you as 
much hoDOur, as I can ; and thU I conceive 
may be beft done in my aticmpt to favc as 
many of thcfe poor peoples fouls as I- can ; 
but at the fame time I (hali take care not to 
advance any points in religion but what you 
(hall approve of. 

I was mightily pleafed with the modefty of 
his expreflioas, and told hlra he ihould not 
want my affiftancc to further his good inten- 
*tion. By his advice theEnglifhincn and fav- 
? age women were married ; which was not 
'^more to my fatistadtion than to that of the 
Eaglilhcnen themfelvcs, and indeed, it was at- 
tended with all the good coniequences that 
.ccuid he cxpefted. 

The affairs of the iflaod being thus fettled^ 
I was preparing every thing for going on- 



ic8 ROBINSON 

board, when a match was propofcd between 
the Englifhnan whom I called Jick-of-all- 
trades anii the maid Sufan. He was a very 
active joduftrious man, and the woman a 
dikfcct^ neat, cleanly houfcwifc ; fo the 
match was concluded, and they were married 
the fame day. 

As to the ibaring out the laad, I left it to 
Will. Atkins, who difcharged his truft with 
great fidelity* As to their Iaw$ and gwern- 
menr, I advised them carneftly to love on« 
aBothcr. and to make whiit farther &y lairi 
they fhould think proper for iheir general 
good and benefit. 

Thus having difpofcd every thing in the 
ifland in the bcft manner pofiible and given 
the people afiurance that I would always hay e 
them in my thoughts, and w©u'd he fure to 
fend them Sufficient fuppliesi as often as I 
had an opportunity. On the firft of May, 
1695, ^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^' ^^^ Brafils, but the next 
day was becalmed ; and looking towards the 
N. N. £. of the ifland, we could perceive 
fomething out at Tea looking very black, up« 
on which the mate going up the fjbrouds, and 
taking a view with a profpe^ive glafs, be cri- 
ed out, // was au army ! An army^ youfool^ 
iaid I, vihat do you mean ? Nay Sir» faid be, 
do not be augry ; for I afiure you. it is not 
only an army, but a fleet too ; for I believe 
there are a tboufaod canoes making towards 
us with all fpecd. As they came nearer to- 
wards us» they Teemed to be very much for- 
prifed at the fight of our fhip, not knowing 
what to make of us : and we being unwilling 



e R U S B. 



10^ 



tMej {hovM coiite top neari made figns (o 
them CO keep cff, which they did ; but at 
they retired, they let fly feveral arrows^ by 
which ooe of our men was wounded. 




lo a little time they had the courage to 
cimie fo near us, that they could hear us 
fpeak ; upon which i ordered Friday to call 
to them, to koow what they would have ; 
whereupon they poured a whole cloud ot 
arrows upon him, feveral of which wen( 
quite ihrotigh his body ; and fo I loft my 
faithful fervant and moft afFcftionatc com* 
panion in all my aiEi£lont and foiitude. I 
was fo enraged at the death of poor Friday, 
ihat I ordered the gunner to load with fmall 
K 



no ROB INS N- 

flior, and icnmediately give them a broad* fide % 
which he did fo eff'^6tuaUy» that thirteen or 
fourteen of their caooes were oVerfet, and 
the reft (o flighted, that away they flew with 
all the rpeed they could. 

Soon after, we took up one poor wretchi 
ai he was fwimoiing for hit life ; who let us 
know that they were going with their kings 
to fight a great battle ; and when we aiked 
him what made theai come to ut and fhoot 
at us ? He anfwered, to make de great Wonder 
look. 

Poor Friday was buried with all the pomp 
and decency our circumftances would allow: 
And now, having a fair wind, we made the 
heft of our way to the Brafils. — We ftopped 
at All Saints, aod haviog fitted out a vefiel 
with Provifions for my iQand, fet fail for the 
Eaftiodies. We made directly for the Cape 
of Good Hope, and thence for the coaft of 
Coromaodel. The firft place we touched at 
was the ifland of Madagafcar ; where though 
the people are firce and treacherous^ yet for 
fom$ time they treated ^s well, and gave us 
commodities ; and indeed they traded with 
us with fo much civility, that lame ef the 
men rofolved one night to flay on ihore in a 
ceoti which they had made for that purpofe. 
About two o'clock in the morning, we 
were alarmed with the firing of gunt, and 
our men's crying for help, or they fhould be 
murdered. 

The cfcafion of this fray, as we afterwards 
uoderftood from them that elcaped, was this. 
An old woman, that fold inilk, brought liritk 



e R U. S 0- E. Ill 

her ayouDg woman that fold herbf, whom 
when the Tailors faw, they laid hold en her, 
and carried her in among the trees ; upon 
which the old woman made fuch a prodigiout 
Oct cry, that both men and women came to 
their affif^ance. At the begicniog, the fel- 
low that began the fray, was kilted with a 
lance, though at fird we did not know what 
was become of him. 

A night or two after we refolved to go 
on fhore, and try if we could find out the 
man that was miBicg. An hour before 
midnight we landed at the place where the 
a£tion began ; but it was fo dark, we could 
difcover nothing, till the boatfwain fell over 
one of the dead bodies, We concluded to 
flay there till the morning, when we difco- 
Tered two and thirty dead bodies lyiogon the 
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. 
Having made this difcovery, I thought I had 
feen enough, and fo was preparing to return 
on board. But the Boatfwain. and the refl» 
which were about twenty, refolved to go to 
the Indian town, to try if they could find 
what was become of Tom Jeffreys, their 
companion. 

It was not without difficulty that they 
found the town, which confiftcd of abcAJt 
two hundred hou(e$, where the people beicg 
ail in a profound flccp, the iailois concluded 
to divide tbcmfclvcs into three bodies, aod to 
ftt the town on fire in three places at once, 
to kill all that Qiould attempt to tfcspe, and 
to plunder the reft. 

Having made this reiolution,tci w&rk they 



112 



no s INS ON 



mttt ; tbey had not gooe far, before tHe 
ifirft company found their companion Tom 
JcfiVeys, dripped flark naked » with his throat 
cue from ear to ear,^ hanging by one arm U{h 
on a tree. In a houfe adjoining to this tree, 
they found ^ftecn or £xteen Indiant. 




They 'mmcdiatcly itt fi?c to the houic, 
and at the l^me time to fever al others in the 
town ; fo that, in a v^fj little rfme, the 
whole place was all in flames ; and no (bon- 
er did the 5iff«igbte<i ctearures run out to 
fave fbemffJvcs fiom the fu^y of the flamesy 
but the failors either drrve fhf m back again 
into fire, o- killed ihcm witb rut mercy. 

Bf this time the town wris all in flames^ 
.and the light of the coiflagiandn made me 
very uoea(y, and likewiie mrprifed the cap- 
tain and thf* men that wrre with him on 
board, who knew nothing of the matter ^^^ 
StJt when hr ^aw the fmoak, and heai^ f|ie 
gurii go iff he coDcudftd h\% men m^(l1>e 
in great danger ; upon which be took the 



ofher boat, zr^d with thirteen mea reCpIvecl 
to go to tb? affiHance of them, let the con- 
fcqaeoce be what it would ; aody though I 
WHS lenilble of tAe daoger we raui yet I ha^ 
UQ power to ftay behind. 

We went dire^If as the flimes guided us» 
but i suuft owQ^ wheti I came to the place, I 
jQever behield greater horrori iior heard more 
dreadful opt cries : fo (hort, the whole fpec- 
tacle wa^ too dreadful to be defcribed, and 
thA mireries aod aftoniihmeQl of the people 
cot to be uttered* I got ioto the ccDter, in 
6rder to put a (lop to their farther Barb?rttf) 
and ordered fome of the pseo to fptlow o^e ; 
but I had hardly fpokc the word, before jl^e 
Boatisraio, with four of the ineo after him, 
came up to us, all covered wiih blood and 
4uft. When th.ey faw US| they gavj a great 
hftiloo, io tQJ^en that more helprwas come. 
iVa^/if Captain, faid he, the/e hell hounds h&V^ 
harbarpiffiy murdered Tom Jeffreys, and in re-^ 
venge we "will /lilf them all ; and accordipg 
to ail .their accouots, they deftroyed one 
hundred and 6(ty men, wom^n and children, 
»ti4 b^ffit ihfi whole town to aOirs into ii|ie 
bargain ; while not one of them received any 
particular hurt, the popr ladidns beicg un- 
Ijreparcd, amazed and confounded — Howe- 
.ver our men might value thcmfe ves upon 
tbi« bold cxploif, yet I always looked upon 
it with detclUtion, aod gave it the title oi the 
maffice of Mjdagajcar. 

When we were under fail, the BoatiwaiD 
would be often msgni ying and ds^fodiog 
•the blgody aftion^ which 1 a^; ohen dilj^r^ilcd 
K 2 



114 k B 1 N S N 

and coodemned ; bidding fbem depend tip« 
oa it, God would never blefs their voyage 
after fucb unparalleled barbarity. And as I 
foretold, fo it happened ; for when we came 
upon the Perfian (bore, we loft five of our 
men, who vecturing too far on the fhore, 
were either kiMed» or taken and naade flaves 
by the 'Arabians. Upon this misfortune I 
again, reprehended them, advifing them to 
repent. Upon this the boatfwain f»id, you 
are always di(lurbing.tis *, aod as you are but 
a paflxngcr, we are net obliged to bear it 5 
and therefore if you do not forbear for the 
future, J (hall leave the fhip, and not fail with 
,fuch dangerous and uog^ ateful company^, 

AH this I heard very patiently* being fen- 
iible, as caffs tben flood, I bad no remedy \ 
and indeed, I Thought all had been over and 
forgotten: Bur, fo it happened, we were 
BOW in the road of Bengal, where, going 
one day on (hore with the Sapercargoe. one 
of the men came and told me, ** 1 need not 
trouble my(e!f to come on board any morei 
for that he bad orders from the boaifwaioj 
and the reft of the officers, not to bring mc 
on board any more.'* 

This infolcnt m ff ige much furprifed me ; 
however, I made the fetiow no anfwer, but 
went to the fupercargo, and dcfired him to 
go on board immediately, and acquaint the 
Capriin, rhal he might prevent the mutiny 
which I had reafon 'o apprcbcod : Bm* be- 
fore this could hi dooc, the matter wasi^f- 
fcfted ; for 1 was bardfy gone out of the 
boat, but the boatr??ain, gunner, carpsntsr? 



C R U S E, .115 

with all the iofcrior officers, ran to the 
quarter deck, dcfiring ta fpcak with the Cap- 
taio ; and then ^he ooaUwaio begao to rail 
againrt rae cxcecdi»gly, iciling him, That if 
J had not gone on fbore myfeif^ they had refoiv* 
td to have compelled ms id it. And fan her, 
he had the mlokocc to add, •* That if I had 
not quitted the fliip, though they h d all the 
refpe^ imaginable foi their Captain, and 
would ferve hitn with their liv'i ; yet they 
would ail ha,vc left the fhip immediately."— 
Upon which the red cried out, One and atl, 
-ene and alL 

Though my nephew was a man that want- 
ed neither courage nor refoiution, yet this 
uneipcft:d behaviour (hccked him exceed* 
ingly ; he expoftulated with them, telling 
fhem the danger and irjufticc of ft^ch pro- 
ceedings, biit all wou'd not do ; ih?y had 
fully rcfolved, that if I came on board, they 
would ail leave the fhip ; upr.n which faid be, 
•* \i this be your refpluiioo, I wilt go and ac- 
quaint him wih it.'* And fo he came up to 
me, and told m: all that had palT d \ am 
very glad to fee you, Nephew, laid I, and 
am glad it is no worfe ; for in tiu h I ex* 
pc^ed they would have rebelled againft you. 
I only deflrc you to fend my neceirtjy «hiogi 
on (hore, and I will find my way to Eng- 
land as well aslc^n. Ihough this v^%c6. 
my nephew to the heart, yet, fiading there 
was no remedy, he took hij ieav; of me ani 
went on board, and Cent mc my nccelTAriis 5 
and fo ihii m iiicr was ovir in a very rcw 
hours. Aad now lihi^k I wa? a: Icalt 2 



i/i6 RQ B I N 3 N 

tboufaDd leagues farther didant from Engf 
jaod, than I was at my little kingdom, tlif 
□ephew left me two fervaats to attend ms^ 
who engaged to be with me till my return. 
J took lodgiL'g in the houfe of an Engli^i 
woman, where were feveral merehants ; ap4 
iadced i liked the company and entertain- 
ment fo Weill that I continued here kvcf^l 
months, condderisg what Ccurie I had i^eft 
take. I had fome valuable English goodt^ a 
thoufand dollars in cafh. and a letter of cre- 
dit tor more, if I (hould have occafion -^ 
The goods I foon dilpofed o( to advantagt| 
and bought here feveral good diamonds^ 
which 1 could eafily carry about with me. 

One morning, a merchant, with whom I 

was very intimate, came to me, ani faid, 

count rvtnan, I have a propoial to make to 

yoU| which I do not q leiiioa will be to both 

our advantages. To be (hart Sir, we are 

both in a remote part o$ the world, and far 

removed from our native couniryi and yet 

we are in a place where men that uodcrftand 

bufijefs, may get money Njw if you wJU 

put a thouiand pounds to my thoufai^d 

pouodsi wc will buy a goc d /h p, yju (jbiall 

be the Captain an J I the mc chant, anid V6 

will gc upon a iradiug voyage. 

This propofal foon gw^ up.^n me fuit- 
iog ex d y wi^h my ranib iug ii ciiua i^o » 
ba? it Tvq.urcd fame time b fore wc coutd 
get a v.ilel to our mind, ox f^ilots (it to m.aa 
her ^ u* in a lit Ic time w. pr<»cufed b<ithj 
and fo we faied a^ay for C iiQ-, and had a 
very profpeicus vqya^c, having not ouiy 



iO R U S d E. 117 

fSliQ^d a targe fum oi monfy, but withal got 
a good iofjghc into the traffic of tbofe coun* 
tri' s . 

Our DCXt voyage was to the Spicc iflandi, 
which prov.d like wife ?cry fuccffsful ; and 
mot loog after, the mefchaot and I made u^ 
dtir accounts to oor mutual fatistact'on. 
We found ou^ felves ve^y rich ; and now our 
only concern was how 10 difpoic of our mo- 
llify. Whilft we were confiierir.g what was 
beft to be done, it happeued that a Dutch 
ihip of about 200 tons came i to port. Thd 
tnen pretended tbey were fo ill, that there 
lirere not hands fufficient to manage the ve(- 
fel, and the Captajn beicg dcfirous of going 
to Europe, public botice was given that the 
Ihip was to be (M *, which no fooner came 
to our ears but we bought her, and would 
lia^e entertained fome of her men* bu: they 
Were noi to be found, for as foon as they 
had received their dividend^ they all went 
privately to the Mogti)'s country; as in truth 
they had reafon enough ; for this pretended 
Captain Was only the gurner (the real Cap- 
tain and three ot his men being killed by the 
Malagars) who ran away with the (hip to 
the bay of Bengal, leaving the mate and five 
men mote on (hore, ot «(rhich y.u will bear 
morf ici the fcqu?l of the ftory. 

Afecr we had bought iht fliip, and fitted 
her with all nec^fiaiics fo« her voyage, wi h 
fomc difficulty and ^xp-r^ce we picked up 
fome failors fd^ff: rent couutiics, <n'l man- 
ned her 'olcra*^^ "'fU, refo ving upco ^n^ h- 
cr voyage to theiSptcc iflands. In thismao* 



iiB R B I N S If 

ner we traded backward and forward for 
five or fix years, with very good (uccefi, and 
were now in the fevcDih year going toChi- 
na : but in this voyage we met with contrary 
winds, which beat us up and down ; and no 
iooner had we got dear of thefe rugged feas, 
but we found our (hip had fpruDg a leak, 
which obliged us to put into the river Cam- 
bodia, which goes to Siam. 

One day as I was on Ihore, refrelhing my- 
fclf, there came to me an £rg)i{hman, that 
was mate to an Eafllodiaman, that rode m 
the iame river ; Sir, laid he, you may very 
well wonder at eny bufincfs. who am a perfect 
Aranger to you, but notwithftandicg that, I 
have lomething to impart to you, that cod- 
ceres you veiy nearly, and it is the imminent 
danger ycu are in that has brought me to 
you. Danger ! faid I, I know of no danger, 
unlcfs that our fhip is a little ieaky, and that 
1 ioteud fhall be rectified as foon as poflible. 
I believe, ikid he, you will fiod other em- 
ployment. The town M Cambodia is about 
lo leagues higher, and three leagues or» this 
£de Tics three Dutch and two Eoglifb (hips, 
and will you venture up farther into the riv- 
er, without confideriog whether ycu hav^ 
iorce enough to fight tbem all ? 

I knew not what be meant by thi? dif- 
•courfe, end turning (liort vpon him, Sir« 
faid I, I know no reaft n I have to be afrsid 
^either of the Dutch or Ecglifh : I am no in- 
terloper, ard what tudncfs then can they have 
with.me ? Well, fays the mao, if my advice 
is of no weight with you, you may take your 



C R U S E. 119 

own way ; however, I am very lorry yoa 
fliould be fa much an CLCtny to youdcU : I 
wUVbe pUio with y^^u uulcis you put to fea 
imnnediateiy.you will be attacked by 6ve long 
boats full of armed tneoiand yoarreltbaoged 
for a pirate if you ate tak-:n ; aud, Sir, I 
thought fuch a piec^ of inteliigeace defetved 
better treatment.. Sir» (aid I, you (ball not 
£ad me ungrateful; let me beg you there* 
fore to explain y urfclf, and ( will put to fea 
immediately. Why then, in (hort, the mat- 
ter is thii : You know very well that your 
Captain, with three of his m:o, were killed 
by the Malagans, acd that you, or (omc oth- 
ers that were 00 board, ran away with the 
fliip, and are turned pirates. Now Sir, this 
is the iubftance of what I hivs to fay, I caa 
only farther affarc you, that if ihcy can lay 
their hands on you, they will execute you 
without ceremony. 

Sir, faid I, though no m%n came more 
boneftiy by the fhip than I did, yet as you 
reprefent the roauer, I think I cught to be 
upon my guard, and I heartity thank you 
for your information. Come hid he, it is 
no matter for ceremonies j if you value 
font own life and the lives of yotft man, gi-'t 
out to fea as faft as you can. I aai very well 
fatiified faid I, in your fiiicerity aod the frr- 
vice you have done me, pray ih^^reforc tell 
me what recompence I (hall makt yoo ? On- 
ly take me with yju, faid he, ad if y^u 6adi 
what I have told you to be true, I ic^cr my« 
felf for a recompence to your gcricrofi y 

So reafonabic did this appear in every par<^ 



RO BINS ON 129 

t^utar, chat »e went immediaiely oo bo;ird 
together, where we were aq fooner cntere4f 
but my partner welcomed me with the joj" 
ful news that they had (topped the leak. I 
am glad of that faid I ; but come let u» mal^ 
aii the hafte we cao to weigh aochor ; but 
wbilft we were bufy in that, a failor called 
toihe Cdptaio^and ipldhim there wen flo9p9 
coming after ut i upQQ wbUh the Captfttn 
taking hii profpe^ive-gla(t» and, looking out« 
faw five {loops full of armed men, in k|U 
chafe after u% ^ upon which he in^mediaiely 
fent one of the failors to give ui notice. 
Very well, faid I, I am fully convinced there 
is {omethiog in it i apd fp I went upon the 
deck, and told the men they were in danger 
of Jiaviogtbe (hip feij^ed. and being executed 
Ks pirates } and aiked them if they would 
faithfully d and by us, and by one an^other ? 
To which they unauimoufly replied, they 
would (land by us » and €ght for qs to the la& 
drop of their blood. Then I aiked the Cap* 
tain, which way he thought was the be(V to 
defend ouriehes \ who replied, he believed 
it was the fafeft to keep them o6F with our 
great guDs ; and accordingly the gunner was 
ordered to>-load the guns with fmall (hot, and 
to bring them to bear before and aft : and 
thus the deck being cleared, we were in all 
points prepared for an eagagement. 

We (tood out to fca, but ilill the bo^ts 
followed us very clofic. We could perceive 
the two fprerooft were Inglifli, which were 
a-hcad of the Dutch by two leagues : here 
upon we fired a guoi and hung out a 



CRUSOE, i2t 

of truce, in order for a parley *, but findiog 
they bore down . upoa us with all tbs fail 
th«y could, wc fired upon them with balls, 
apd then bade them k^ep off at their p:ril. 
Qttt all this Ogni&ed nothing ; for, depead- 
ipg upon their numbers, they were abfolutely 
bent upon ofiifchief. VVe mtde feveral ihou 
at ihe«i as they eame forward, killed feveri^l 
of their meU) and funk oue of their boats^ 
and maooiog out our pinnace, w« faved three 
qf their men frem drowning, who were 
brought on board. Afier a very hot a^ion» 
Wtgot out fo far to fea that they could not 
purfue Qs without danger ; and fo, chaogiog 
our courfe to the eaftward, wc got quite out 
of the courie of European (hipi. 

When we were got out to fea, eoquiriog 
mere particularly into the meaning of all thisy 
the Dutchmen let us into the whole fecret, 
telling us, that the fellow, we bought the 
ii^ip of, was an errant tbief| and fhat he ran 
away with the fhip ; that the Captain was 
treacheroufly murdered, and that he and 
four more were forced to the woods for 
fafety ; and that, at length, by means of a 
Dutch vefl*cl in its way to China, that came 
iu accidentally to take in frcOi water, they 
were preferred. He farther told us^ that 
they were informed that the feHow fold the 
(hip at Bengal, and (he was turned pirate and 
bad taken feveral prizes. 

After mature cooOderatioD, wc concluded 

it bsft for us to return to Bengal, where, 

being known, we might beft prove how we 

came by the fhip, and where we were fare to 

L 



122 R O B I N S a N 

rti'-ct with fome Juftice, and not be haoged 
G^fR and judged afrcrwards : Bat, . upon (c- 
cond and more deliberate thoughts, we all 
agreed that, by paOijg by Bataviia, we raa 
too gfcat a hazi^d, and therefore wc deter- 
mined to change our courfe, aod fail towards 
thfi coaft of China, and there difpofe of the 
fhip and then get another, and make the 
bcli of our way tp Europe. This being 
generaMy agreed to, we fteercdaway N, N. E, 
but, mcetiog with cootrary winds, which 
blew hard agaiuft u?, our voyage grew very 
troublcfomc, aod tedious, and our provi- 
iSons were aimoft cxhaufted ; and what was 
ftili worfe, we were apprehcrfive, that the 
fliips, whof:^ boats we had handled fo rudely, 
might be in the rode before ut, which in 
consequence mufl: be fatal to us. Upon thcfc 
melancholy coiflderati&ns we again rcfolved 
to change our courfcg and try if poflibly we 
could not make fome harbour belonging to 
the Portugue(c. With this reiolution we icl 
forward for the bay of Tonquio, in order to 
fail from theacc to Macoa, a town once pof- 
fcffwd by the Portugucfc, and where there arc 
Ail! mapy European families. 

We came in fight of this place early next 
morniog ; but confidering our former cir- 
cumAaoces, we put into a im<iU river, till we 
had enquired what ihips were in the road, 
and how matters flood ; and indeed this prU' 
dent (lep was ibe occafion of our happy de- 
liverance ; for next raornrng there came in 
two Datch (hips, and a third without any 
colours } and in the eveniag two Englilh 
ones. 



C R u s a E. 123 

The river where we lay was but fmall, and 
the ccuDtry wild and baibarous. and rhe In- 
habitants, aU robbers, having no ccrrcfpon- 
deoce with any other nation ; and among 
ether barbarous cuflomsi tbcy have this par- 
ticularly ', When any fhip is driven en cheir 
coaft, they immediate y leiz^ her, and make 
all her men ilaves *, lo that here we found 
ourfelves (urrounded wich encmieS| boih by 
fca and land. 

As we found our fhip was very fcul and 
leaky, we thought to cleaolie her in this place ; 
but while this wasdoicg» the iohabltacts, who 
I believe, had never (eca a (hip upon the ca- 
reen before, and not perceiving our men, 
who were at work, prefentiy imagiced that 
the {hip had been caft away, and lay upon 
the ground ; and accordiugly they furround- 
ed us with five or fix large boats full of arm- 
ed men, with a refbluilon ia plunder ihe 
ihip, aod cany the men away flaves to their 
king : but, when they faw our men at work 
upon the ouifidc of the fhip thty looked 
upon us with the greaiefV confufion imag'n- 
able ; neither could wc imagine what their 
defign was : However to prevent the woift, 
we handed down (ome arms, and icideed it 
was well we did, for in Ids than a quarter 
of an hour, they came fcourisg upon us with 
ail their force. 

Indeed, wc lay but in an ill pofiurc to re- 
ceive them, & betcre the men ct uld come en 
board, they had fcized one pi the fiilors ; 
but the fellow icon difcngagcd himit;if» and 
killed the pagan that fifft laid hold on hnu 5 



tM R B 1 N S N 

however^ this was little to the puff ofe, con- 
fidcfing their numbers, and I real!y believe, 
if it had not been for a lucky accident, we 
had been all loft. The thing was this : the 
carpenter, who was ftoppicg the holes in the 
&ip, had two kettles, the one fnll of boiliog 
pitch, and the other with re fin and tallow, 
^c. And as two or three in£deis were en- 
teriog the boat, the carpenter's mate fainted 
them with a ladle full of boiling liquor, 
which had fuch an effe£t, that, being half 
naked, it made them roar and lezp into the 
fea, vhicb the carpenter perceiving, he took 
his mop» and dipping it into the pitch kettle, 
fo fpiiokled it amorg them, that they all ran 
frighted away, ciying and hoWling in amoft 
terrible manner. 

I muft own I was extremely pleafed at the 
oddnefs of this adventure ; however, we left 
BO time to put the ihip in a pofture of defence* 
and as foon as we could, we put to fea agaiuf 
having refolved to put into the fit ft trading 
port we came sear. After fome days fail, 
we came within fight of Chore, and ftanding 
in, a boat came o£f to us, with an old Ports- 
guefe pilot on board, who offered us his 
/ervice *, we very gladlv accepted it, and fcnt 
the boat back again : In fhort the old man 
went with us, and as we failed, along, I afk- 
ed him, if there ^ere no pirates in thofe feas. 
He told me, he had on^y heard of c ne, that 
was ieen in the bay of Siam, about a month 
agOi nor was flic built for a runner neither, 
but only a Ihip that the men had run away 
with, the Captain having been murdered by 



CRUSOE. 125 

the Malagana ; and I can tell you thit, i£ 
fame Dutchmeo, that catne pretty Dearth^m 
the other day in the river CaiDbodia> had 
laid their haods upoo them, they would have 
hanged every one of the rogj^es upon the 
yard arm, without any farther ceremony. 

Being feofible that this old pilot could do 
us QO barm, I told bim how the cafe (tood 
with U3 and defired him to carry us to Naa- 
quia where neither EogUfh nor Dutch (hips 
came. Said the old man, you have taken 
the right courfe to fteer to the north ; and 
if I mighr advife I would have you fell the 
ihip at Cbina : Bat (aid I^ in doing that, I 
betray iooocent people. Nd replied he, I 
know the Dutch commanders, and will tak« 
care they fhall be rightly informed of the 
wijole matter. Whilft thefc things were 
under debate, we failed dire^ly for Ndnquio« 
and in about 13 days time we came to ao 
anchor in the Entranee into the gulph, where 
we were informed that two large Du'ch lliips 
were gone before us, and that we ihouid cex:- 
taioly fall into their hands. 

What to do we could not tell ; but the 
old man told us there was a little hat hour a- 
bout 40 leagues to the fouihward, and if we 
could git thither, no Dutch or En^'ilh (hips 
ever came ihuher,and there we might be fafe. 
This advice was generaUy approved, and 
^thither by the hooefl pilot's direftion, we ar» 
rived in fafefcy, after 6ve days failing 5 we 
went directly ioto the por^, and landed to 
our unfpcakable jj^nd farisfa^tion. 

Being now fafs «Pfh ore, our pilot foc^> 
La 



126 ROBINSON 

got us a lodging and a warehoufe for our 
goods, and then brought us acquainted with 
three Miffionary PrieOs,tbat were there con- 
verting the people to chriftiaoity. After wc 
had fettled ^fort of a correfpoodeoce with 
them, our next concern wai to diipofe of our 
goods^ which we did feme time alter, to our 
full fatisfaflioD, to an eminent merchant of 
Japan. We were looo leagues farther from 
home. than we were at Bsoga), and having 
difpofed of our (hip, ali the hopes we had, 
were, that at the next fair, we might perhaps 
purchaie another veflel th*t would carry us 
and our goods where wc picafed. Upon 
thefe hopes we refolved to continue here ; 
and to divert curfclvc$» we took fever al lit- 
tle journies into the country, and (pent ten 
days to fee the city of Nacquin, which was 
regularly built, and tolerably well fortified : 
At our return, wc found one of the piiefts 
going to Pcquio, who folicited us with great 
earncftntfs to bear him company thither, 
which we both agreed to do. We were 25 
days in our journey through that miferable 
country, and had au opportunity in our paf- 
fagc to f«e two or three of the Chiocfe 
£(quires, with their manner of travelling 
there, which was the moft ridiculous fight 
I ever faw, and rather merited our fcoro and 
conttmpt rbao admiration. 

At length we ariivcd at the great city of 
Pequio, where we had fcarcely been a week, 
before the old Portugucfc brought us word, 
that there was a great jjuiravao, and 'feveral 
PoliCh Mjsrchaots, in smort tioie, preparing 



CRUSOE, 127 

to go by laod to Mufcovy, and that if wc 
plealcd wc might take ihc opportunity.— 
This was very good news for us ; and fo wc 
wept to work as faft as we could to dilpofc 
of what Go >ds we had at the Port, and to 
buy luch others as we thought woulJ turn 
to The moft advantage Wc let ouc for Pc- 
quiue in company with abou? five hundred 
Or fcveral uations, the beginning of F b ua- 
ry ; and in two days we pail^d through a 
gate in the great wail, (aid' to bt onz thou- 
(and E^gliih miles in Icngthe We then co* 
tered a country under the pawer of the poor 
thitving T'ar/iir^, of whom we rCrctived fcve- 
ral (mail parties at a diflance from us. Oie 
day our leader give us leave 10 go a hunting, 
when it was our chance to meet with'aboul 
forty of thcfe ftarving wretchc? in a body ; 
who no fooncr pcrceivd us, but one of 
them blew a horn, at the found of which for- 
ty or fifty more came up immediately. Here- 
upon, one of the Scoch merchants ordered 
us to advance aod at ack them without delay. 
They let fly a few random arrowj at us that 
did^s no mann^^r of harm •, and when wc 
came near enough to fire upon them with 
our piftols, th^y ran aw^y with the grcatefl 
confufioo. So our batti- with th'fe tnievifh 
Tartars ended without any blood iiicd on our 
fide, Wc (fill trav-lli^d at leaft a month 
more through the E nperor of Cmna's coun- 
try, till at Ingrh wc came to ihz city of 
Naum, which is a (Irong trontjer of the 
Chineft empire, b-inj often di(furbcd in our 
:pa(ragc by fhaggii.j^artari. We ita^ycd as 



128 ROBINSON 

Naum but ooe day, aod then coDtioued our 
Journey, pading fcvcral defcru aod great ri-^ 
vers ; and oa the 13th of April, we came to 
the Frontier of Mufcovy ; and as we paiTed, 
we found the garrifon wat filled with chrif* 
iian foldiers, for the hsoefit of travelieri and 
Gommerce ; but the cocnmoQ, people were 
all Pagans, the moft miferablc wrctchef I 
ever beheld. Whilft we flv^ppcd to refrclh 
at oaf of thefc towns, I had an opportunity 
ta obferve them at the worOiip of one of 
their idols, which was the moft ugiy rcprcfen- 
tation that ever I b«hcld in my life. I can- 
not dcfcribe it to you without horror : How« 
ever, we found means to dcftroy it before 
we left (he place, for which we had like to 
have paid very dear ; for the next day they 
came to the Governor to demand fat is fac- 
tion for the lofs of their idol, and if we had 
Bot deceived them, and got off by a Strata* 
gemi we had been all deftroycd. 

The next place wc came to was the city of 
Jaravena, where we flopped for five days, 
and then we cotered into a difmal defart 
which laft-'d us twenty five days march, be- 
fore we couM pafs over it, and were all the 
'way iofeft-'d with fmall troops of robbers^ 
but they never had the courage to attack us<» 
After we had paffcd this place we had feve- 
ral Garrifons to defend the Caravans from 
the Tartars. 

Through all this country happened noth- 
ing worth imforming the reader : The io- 
habitaots wer^ gener^y Pagans ; and as I 
obfervcd.the Czsr chWk rather to convert 
*2hcm by his Soldiers than by his pxiclbr 



CRUSOE, 119 

From til if city, to the river Obt we tra» 
veiled oTcr a very pleafant coucuy but un- ' 
cultivated, till w&-camc to the c:'piral of fi- 
beria. hn^ now, haviogbeen fcven moo(hs 
upon our joutnty and winter coming oO| 
roy partner ai/d t began to conHder what 
courfe wc baU bed take to fecure and dif- 
po(e of out goods and jouifclves : I cone ud- 
ed ro proceed to Afchacgel, where it was 
impcfljblc to want a (hip cither for England, 
H Handt or Haoibufgh. 

One night I happened to fall into the cotn- 
pary of an exited Prince, but a very fine 
gentleman whofe virtue (I uck mc into fuch 
a deep re(pc£t, that I propoicd a method for 
his cnUrgemect. He refufed the offer, and 
gave mc Icveial reafi ns for lo doing : But, 
faid he, I have a fon, and if you will be af- 
fiflart to him, I fhall take it kinder than if 
done to mc. This I very readily complied 
with ; and fo the young Prince was fcnt for, 
who brcught with him a noble equipage, 
and a confiderable quantity of furs and other 
valuable merchandize. 

When we bad fettled all our other adairs, 
the next thing to be ccnfidered was, the me- 
thod of travelling, which we concluded 
would be heft and fafeft to avoid the great 
towns, and take the by roads. After we had 
paffed the river Cama, as wc were obliged to 
do we came tc a little city on the European fide, 
but the people were moft of them Pagans, as 
in the more remote part of the country. — 
From this place we were to pafs a deferr loo 
miles iQ breadth} a&d were fet upon in our 



13© ROBINSON 

pafiligc, by a large troop of Calmuck Tartar*, 
Ubvn whcni wc did make a fbift to drape, 
bit cot without the greaicft difficulty and 
dacger. Ic fbort we were forced to make 
ourielvcs a ioit of foitificacioo of the boughs 
of trees, wbitb ftcod us in fuch ftead, that 
tbcugb wc weic 1. vcral times attacked with 
all libe iu«y imagicablc, yet ibcy could never 
break in upcn cur little compa^l body ; and 
fo, by tbe iiiat^gem of a fire, we got off in 
the night, acd f;^ved the camels and ail the 
reft of the n>efchandizc. 

After we had ptflld the river Kiiza, we 
came to a iage town, named Ofmoys^ where 
we heaid that tevcial troops of Tartars had 
been abroad, but that we ^ere now pad dan- 
ger. We came next to Lawrenfkoy, where 
wc hired boats to carcy our luggage 5 fo we 
arrived at Archangel on the 13th day of Ju- 
ly, aficr a year, five months and 3 days jour- 
ney. We (ailed from Archangel on the 
20ih.of April, and caaac into the Elbe Sep- 
tember following. Here my partner and I 
lold. cur gcods, and divided the money % 
and my (ha* e after ^!l our Itflss, came to 
3475I. »7s 3d. At Hamboufgh my yc«ng 
loid took his leave, in trder to go to Vien- 
na, not only for proteflic n, but for the fake 
of correfpording with his father, and the 
reft of his tnends. I came to the Hague, 
where I embarked for England, and ariived 
zi London on the io»h of January 1705, 
after ten years and nine months ablcnc«s. 

T e ;E E N D. 



X^^1^^X^31S^^»^«^^S 




Robinfon Crufoe, 

Born in the year 1632. D'led 1705, 
^ged 73 years. 



\ 



\ 



;/^^^ 



iKK,';;/,?.!-'^ LIBRARY 

3 ^- Jlf ■ 




ik-M. 'ji;- 
















