
SvSM-A. _-.,^ - 

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 08252562 1 

4 ^ A 1 






c 



PUBLIC LIBRARY 







MR. CRUSOE SAVES ME FROM A FLOGGING. [page 3. 



A NEW EOBINSON CRUSOE 




. 

BY W. L. ALDEN 

AUTHOR OF 

"THE CRUISE OF THE CANOE CLUB" "THE CRUISE OF THE 'GHOST'" 
"THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY BROWN" ETC. 



EllustratetJ 






' '. * 

> 1 J 

;' ' 

> * 








NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 

1888^ 



h'f R 



TO 



VC?K 



PUBLIC LI I 

122608 A 

ASTOT*, L^V " !D 
TILDL, DATIONF 

R 



HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE SERIES. 

Illustrated. IGmo, Cloth, $1 00 per volume. 



THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY BROWN. Edited by W. L. ALDEN. 

THE CRUISE OF THE CANOE CLUB. By W. L. ALDEN. 

THE CRUISE OF THE "GHOST." By W. L. ALDEN. 

THE MORAL PIRATES. By W. L. ALDEN. 

A NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. By W. L. ALDBN. 

TOBY TYLER? OK, TEN WEEKS WITH A CIRCUS. By JAMES OTIS. 

MR. STUBBS'S BROTHER. A Sequel to "Toby Tyler." By JAMES OTIS, 

TIM AND TIP; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A BOY AND A DOG. By JAMES OTIS. 

LEFT BEHIND; OR, TEN DAYS A NEWSBOY. By JAMES OTIS. 

RAISING THE "PEARL." By JAMES OTIS. 

SILENT PETE ; OH, THE STOWAWAYS. By JAMES OTIS. 

THE COLONEL'S MONEY. By LUCY C. LILLIB. 

MILDRED'S BARGAIN, AND OTHER STORIES. By LUCY C. LILLIE. 

NAN. By LUCY C. LILLIE. 

MUSIC AND MUSICIANS. By LUCY C. LILLIE. 

ROLF HOUSE. By LUCY C. LILLIE. 

JO'S OPPORTUNITY. By LUCY C. LILLIE. 

THE FOUR MACNICQLS. By WILLIAM BLACK. 

THE LOST CITY; OR, THE BOY EXPLORERS IN CENTRAL ASIA. By DAVID KER. 

INTO UNKNOWN SEAS; OR, THE CRUISE OF TWO SAILOR-BOYS. By DAVID KER. 

THE TALKING LEAVES. An Indian Story. By W. O. STODDAKD. 

TWO ARROWS. A Story o'f Red and White. By W. O. STODDARD. 
* WHO* WAS PAUL GRAYSON ? By JOHN HABBERTON, Author of " Helen's Babies." 
< ( PRINpE LA^YESNES, AND OTHER STORIES. By Mrs. W. J. HAYS. 
' 



( 

'THE ICE\ QUEKjC 6v ERNEST INGERSOLL. 

STRANGE STARVE?' FROM HISTORY. By GEORGE GARY EGGLESTON. 

JV'AIUJLLA: A Story of Adventure in Florida. By KIRK MUNROE. 

TftE,VLAMfNO*O FEATHER. By KIRK MDNBOK. 

"DERRICK, STERLING. By KIRK MUNKOK. 



BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YOEK. 

" .'.n'y'. t>" the^ above works irill be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any part of the 
' ' < ? United States or Canada, on receipt of the price. 

f < 



Copyright, 1888, by HARPER & BROTHERS. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PAGE 

MR. CRUSOE SAVES ME FROM A FLOGGING Frontispiece. 

' ' ' IT'S ALL RIGHT, MlKE. MY GRANDFATHER RAN HIS RAFT 

ASHORE m JUST THE SAME WAY'" 19 

"BEFORE HE HAD GONE TEN FEET HIS SWORD TRIPPED HIM UP" 47 
"HE LOOKED WORSE THAN ANY HEATHEN THAT EVER WAS BORN " 59 

MIKE TAKES THE PART OF "MAN FRIDAY" 67 

MR. CRUSOE SUPERINTENDS THE BUILDING OF THE CANOE ... 77 

THE FOOTPRINT IN THE SAND 99 

"HE CALLED THE VISITORS 'CANNIBALS OF THE DEEPEST DYE ' ' 119 
"I WAS TOO QUICK FOR HIM, AND THREW HIM DOWN" .... 131 

- 

"'I MUST HATE HAD A BRAIN-FEVER, MlCHAEL,' SAID HE" . . . 141 

"- 




ns 



A NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



CHAPTER I. 

I DID not exactly write this story, for I can't write very 
much except my name, but I talked it all, from beginning 
to end, to a man who writes just as plain as print, and he 
wrote it down just as I told it to him. At least he said he 
would, and I am pretty sure he kept his word ; but if he did 
happen to put any mistakes into it, you will know they are 
his, and not mine. 

My name is Mike Flanagan my father was Michael 
Flanagan, and my uncle was Patrick Flanagan and I was 
born in Ireland, in the city of Cork. We all came to Ameri- 
ca when I was a baby, and after everybody that belonged 
to me died I went to sea. I never saw my uncle Patrick, 
but I always thought a great deal of him because I was told 
he was a pirate, and that, of course, made the family very 
proud ; but I found out after I grew up that he was only a 
1 



2 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

pilot in Queenstown harbor, which is very different from 
being a pirate. 

When I went to sea I was fourteen years old, and I made 
seven voyages between New York and ports in England, 
France, and Germany. I liked the Atlantic well enough, 
but I wanted to make a voyage in a deep-water ship, so I 
shipped on board the H. G. Thompson, a big American ship 
that was bound from New York to San Francisco, and then 
to China. I was sixteen years old then, and though I shipped 
as ordinary seaman, I expected that after the ship got back 
to New York I would be able to ship as A. B. 

There were twenty-two of us in the forecastle ten A. B.'s, 
ten ordinary seamen, and two boys. The captain and the 
second mate were very decent, but the mate was .a hard man, 
and as I was in his watch, I didn't have a very good time. 
He was a Nova Scotia chap, and he was a mean, bullying 
fellow. He was no sailor-man either, and I don't see how 
he ever got to be mate of a ship. 

We had one passenger. He was a man about thirty years 
old, and he was making the voyage for his health because he 
wasn't very well. He was thin and tall, with the brightest 
eyes you ever saw, and he had a servant with him to take 
care of him who was the laziest and most worthless chap I 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 3 

ever saw aboard a ship. None of us knew exactly what was 
the matter with the passenger, except that he didn't seem to 
be very strong. At least we all thought he wasn't, until 
one day when the mate happened to be laying into me with 
a rope's end which he had a way of doing the passenger 
jumped up and snatched the rope away, and told the mate 
that if he touched me again he'd heave him overboard. The 
mate was twice the passenger's weight, but instead of killing 
him on the spot, as I expected of course he would do, he 
was actually frightened, and walked away without saying a 
word. 

That was the beginning of my acquaintance with the 
queer passenger. After that he often used to talk to me 
when we happened to be on deck together, and was as kind 
to me as he could be. He told me his name was James Rob- 
inson Crusoe, and that his grandfather was a very celebrated 
man, who lived for twenty-eight years on an island all by 
himself, having been cast away. The passenger was forever 
talking about his grandfather, whose name was Robinson 
Crusoe, without the James ; but I never could see that the 
old man amounted to very much, though I never read the 
book of travels that he wrote, and perhaps the passenger did 
not always tell the truth about him. 



4 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

I got to like Mr. Crusoe very much, though he afterwards 
gave me more trouble than any sailor-man ever before got 
into through being kind to a passenger, and being willing to 
talk to him. However, he meant to do right, and I shall 
never forget how he stood up for me when the mate was 
arguing with me, though of course, being a passenger, he 
had no right to be interfering between the officers and the 
men. 

We sailed from New York on the first day of November, 
and we had very decent weather all the way to the Horn, 
and around it, for that matter. We all thought we were 
going to make about a ninety-day passage to San Francisco, 
when our luck turned, and we got a strong northerly wind 
that lasted till the captain got out of patience, and put the 
ship to the westward in hopes of meeting a fair wind. We 
must have run a long ways out of our course, but the wind 
still hung in the north, until one day a tremendous hurri- 
cane struck us all of a sudden from the eastward. It was 
about noon, and all hands were at dinner, and the captain 
and mate had gone below to work up their observations, 
when the second mate sung out for all hands to shorten sail. 
We were on the starboard tack, carrying all three top-gallant 
sails. We got the top-gallant sails rolled up, the main-sail, 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 5 

the outer jib, spanker, and maintop-gallant stay-sail stowed, 
and were furling the fore and mizzen upper top sails, when 
the gale struck us. The captain was on deck long before 
this time, and as it was blowing too hard to bring the ship 
up to the wind with the sail she had on her, he squared the 
yards and put her right before it. 

"We had the worst job I ever saw to get the sail off her. 
By the time we had the upper top-sails furled and the fore 
and aft sails stowed we had to reef the fore-sail, the fore and 
main lower top sails, and to furl the mizzen-top sail. All 
hands were on the foreyard for at least an hour before we 
could get the sail reefed, and half a dozen times I thought 
we should have to give it up. However, we got it reefed 
and set at last, and when we were just through with it the 
sail split and blew away. 

By this time it was blowing harder than I ever saw it 
blow before, and the ship was taking in green seas on each 
side over the rail every time she rolled. The captain knew 
we had no time to lose, for the ship was continually bury- 
ing herself nearly up to the foremast, she still had so much 
sail on her ; so he ordered the fore and mizzen lower 
top-sails to be brailed up, and let them blow away, while 
we close-reefed the lower maintop-sail, which we did with- 



6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

out very much difficulty, and then knocked off to get our 
suppers. 

The forecastle was all afloat with the water that had come 
down the hatchway before any one had thought to close it, 
so we had our supper on the quarter-deck, where all the peo- 
ple except the cook and Mr. Crusoe were gathered. Mr. 
Crusoe had got a fall, so I heard his servant say, and his 
left leg was a little sprung, so that he didn't care to come 
on deck, but stayed below in his berth. 

The wind kept on freshening and the sea kept on getting 
up, and by the time we were through with our supper we had 
to take the top-sail off her, and bring her down to bare poles. 
Even then she travelled faster than she had ever done before 
in her life, and she must have been making a good fifteen 
knots an hour. Nobody could go forward, for the waist of 
her was mostly full of water, so all hands stayed on the quar- 
ter-deck, and waited for the hurricane to blow itself out. 

It didn't show the least sign of blowing itself out, and if 
it had known how to blow harder it would have done it. It 
blew for three days and nights, gradually backing to the 
northward and westward, until on the last night the ship was 
heading nearly south-east. Of course we sailors liked it, all 
except the fact that it was impossible to do any cooking. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 7 

All we had to do was to take our tricks at the wheel, and 
then to sit around the mizzen-mast and wonder if it meant 
to blow forever. We didn't keep any lookout, for nobody 
could get forward, and the air was so black with flying 
spoondrift that you couldn't see much more than the length 
of the ship. Of course the mate growled at us a good deal, 
but even he couldn't think of any work that we could do, 
so we didn't mind him. 

It was about the middle of the last night of the hurricane 
that the ship struck. Without giving us the least warning 
she struck a reef, and the fore and main mast and the miz- 
zen-top mast went overboard together. At the same mo- 
ment a sea boarded us over the stern, and swept the cap- 
tain, the second mate, and five or six of the men away with 
it. The rest of us took to the mizzen rigging, and expected 
every moment that the ship would go to pieces. 

She held together, however, though she pounded heavily 
and the seas broke over her constantly. There was only 
one boat left that had not been stove to pieces or swept 
away, and that was on the top of the deck-house. The mate 
and the rest of us watched our chances, and got safely where 
the boat was and launched her. We were just going to 
cast off when I remembered the passenger, and climbed on 



8 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

board the wreck a^ain to look for him. The men shouted 

o 

to me to come back, but the mate sang out that there was 
no room for passengers, and shoved the boat on . I saw a 
big sea lift her and cany her on out of sight, and then I 
went below to find Mr. Crusoe. 

I found him crawling up the companion-way, and nearly 
drowned by the water which every minute or two rushed 
down on him. I got him on deck, and made a rope fast 
around his waist, and then around mine, and after a while 
I got him into the rigging, where we were out of the reach 
of the sea. 

We had hardly got into the- rigging when the ship slid 
over the reef into smoother water, and drifted away before 
the wind. The sea did not break over us any more, but we 
stayed in the rigging, for I expected that we would sink in 
a few minutes, and there was a chance that she might sink 
where the water would be shallow. She swung around and 
drifted stern foremost, and I could see by the way she rolled 
that there was a great deal of water in her, although her 
deck was still a good six feet above the water. Before she 
had drifted very long her stern grounded quite gently, and 
remained high and dry, although the forward part of her, as 
far as the stump of the foremast, was under water. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 9 

Of course we did not stay in the rigging any longer, but 
came down and made ourselves comfortable on the quarter- 
deck. I got the hand-lead and sounded the water. I found 
that we were on a sandy bottom, and that it shelved so gen- 
tly that there was no danger that the ship would slide off 
and sink in deep water. The wind still blew hard, but the 
reef protected us from the sea, and there was no danger that 
the ship would break up unless the wind changed. I went 
into the cabin, which was quite free from water, and brought 
up a couple of mattresses and some blankets, and told Mr. 
Crusoe that we would turn in and sleep on deck till morning. 

He had not said very much since I brought him on deck, 
except to ask where the rest of the people were. I told 
him that the mate might not have meant to desert us, but 
that he cast loose so as to prevent the boat from being stove 
against the side of the ship ; but Mr. Crusoe said that, wheth- 
er the mate deserted us wilfully or not, I would have been 
in the boat if I had not gone back to try to save a passen- 
ger. He put his hand on my shoulder, and said, " Mike, 
you have done a generous and noble action, and I shall never 
forget it as long as I live." But I told him that we had 
better go to sleep while we had the chance, and that we 
could find out in the morning whether we were going to 
live or be drowned. 



io A New Robinson Crusoe. 

You see, if we were stranded on a sand-bank in the mid- 
dle of the Pacific Ocean, our chances would not be worth 
much ; but if we were on an island, we would be able to get 
ashore and make ourselves comfortable. Since we could not 
possibly tell where we were until daylight, there was no use 
in bothering ourselves about it. 

Of course I didn't like it when the boat left me on the 
wreck, for I thought I had lost my chance of saving my 
life ; but the more I thought of it, the more I was sure that 
the boat could not have lived five minutes in the breakers, 
and that every one in her must have been drowned. I felt 
pretty certain that the ship must be near the shore, for you 
don't often find sand-banks out at sea, and I made no doubt 
that Mr. Crusoe and I could go ashore in the morning. At 
any rate, we were safe enough for that night, and could be 
sure of a good breakfast out of the cabin stores in the morn- 
ing. I don't believe in looking too far ahead, and a good 
night's sleep, with no turning out to come on deck in the 
middle of the night, and with a good breakfast waiting for 
you, and nobody to set you at work, is a good enough pros- 
pect for me. So I rolled myself up in my blanket, with a 
good soft mattress under me, and a real feather pillow under 
my head, and was asleep inside of five minutes. 



CHAPTER II. 

I WOKE up about five o'clock the next morning. It was 
a beautiful day. The wind had all died down, and the sea 
where the wreck was lying was as smooth as New York 
Bay. "We were stranded close to the shore of a lovely island, 
and in the opposite direction I could see the surf breaking 
on a reef that seemed to surround the island about a mile 
from the shore, everywhere except towards the south, where 
there was an opening about half a mile broad. The island 
seemed to be covered with trees that grew close down to 
the shore, and at the northerly end there was a high hill 
that was shaped like a sugar-loaf. I could not see any signs 
that the island was inhabited, and the wreck lay so close to 
the beach that I could have swum ashore without the least 
trouble. 

I let Mr. Crusoe sleep while I split some dry wood from 
the door of the captain's room and started a fire in the gal- 
ley. I found coffee, and pilot-bread, and a lot of cold roast 
lamb in the steward's pantry, and when I woke up Mr. 



12 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

Crusoe, I told him that the best breakfast he ever heard of 
was ready for us in the cabin. "We had china plates to eat 
off of, and a mahogany table and arm-chairs, and I found a 
newspaper and put it by Mr. Crusoe's plate, so that he could 
read the news at breakfast, as rich people on shore always do. 

Mr. Crusoe braced up after breakfast, and found that he 
could walk pretty well. He was in first-rate spirits, and 
said the island was the very one where his grandfather lived. 
"He landed," said Mr. Crusoe, " just about where we are 
now, and he had his house just by the side of that hill." 

" Then we can move right into his house and live there, 
can't we ?" said I. 

" Of course we can," Mr. Crusoe replied. " Only, you see, 
it must be awfully out of repair by this time. And then I 
think it very likely that Will Atkins and his gang burnt it 
before they left the island ; for they must have left it or we 
would see some signs of them. I never did believe in that 
fellow's reformation myself, although my dear grandfather 
did." 

" Well," said I, " we'll go ashore anyway and see. If 
you'll help me, Mr. Crusoe, we'll build a raft." 

"My grandfather built a raft, and we'll do everything 
that he did. Only he didn't have you to help him. I don't 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 13 

know what to do about that," he continued, looking puzzled 
" I can't drown you now, but you see yourself, Mike, that 
everybody ought to have been drowned except me." 

" You can drown me after we get ashore, if you like," I 
said ; " I don't care much, I'm sure." You see I felt a little 
aggravated that Mr. Crusoe should stand there and tell me I 
ought to have been drowned ; but then I didn't begin to 
know at that time how aggravating he could be. But he 
was a good man for all that. 

The first thing I did was to chop away the bulwarks 
amidships, where the spare spars were lashed. Then I made 
a line fast to half a dozen of the spars and launched them 
overboard. Then I went overboard myself and lashed 
them together, and laid planks over them. A good part of 
the spars that had gone overboard where we first struck 
were still alongside, but they were so mixed up with the 
rigging that I didn't try to use them. 

" Now you want to cut a spare top-mast into three lengths 
and add them to your raft," said Mr. Crusoe. 

I never supposed that he knew what a top-mast was, but 
it seems he did, and the spare top-mast was just what the 
raft needed to make it float high enough out of the water. 
However, I afterwards found out that he got the idea of 



14 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

using a spare top -mast out of his grandfather's book of 
travels. 

The raft was now big enough, and we were all ready to 
load it. 

" Now we want to take nothing ashore with us this first 
trip except things that we can't get along without," said I. 

" We must take," said Mr. Crusoe, just as if he was re- 
citing a lesson out of a book, " three seamen's chests broken 
open and filled with bread, rice, Dutch cheeses, dried goat's 
flesh, and a little corn, besides some bottles of rum, the car- 
penter's chest, two shot-guns, two pistols, two rusty swords, 
three barrels of gunpowder, and a bag of shot. I'll help you 
look for them. That was my grandfather's first load." 

" And it isn't going to be our first load," I answered. 
"Where's our goat's flesh? and what do we want of three 
barrels of gunpowder ?" 

Mr. Crusoe came and looked straight in my face with 
his wonderful bright eyes, and said, " Mike, we'll take exact- 
ly what I said. You can take anything else you want to 
take, but you'll never go ashore if you show a want of re- 
spect to my sainted grandfather." 

Well, I didn't want to hurt Mr. Crusoe's feelings, so I 
said I would do what he wanted. I couldn't find any dried 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 15 

goat's flesh, but Mr. Crusoe found a ham, and said that it 
was goat's flesh, and I didn't contradict him. We couldn't 
find any barrels of gunpowder either, though we found one 
small keg of it. 

The raft was big enough to carry a great deal more than 
Mr. Crusoe put on it, so, after he was satisfied, I got to- 
gether two barrels of flour, a barrel of sugar, a bag of coffee, 
two breech - loading rifles, a lot of cartridges, Mr. Crusoe's 
trunk, the captain's chest, and the medicine-chest. Then I 
found two long oars and a big coil of rope, not much larger 
than signal halyards, and put them aboard the raft and 
shoved off. 

The water was so shallow that we poled the raft along 
with the two oars very easily. I meant to land on the 
beach, but Mr. Crusoe said we must keep away to the right, 
and land a little way up a creek that we would find just 
there. As Mr. Crusoe seemed to know all about the island, 
I did as he said, and presently we saw the entrance of a 
little creek, and a short distance from the mouth we found 
a beautiful place to land. 

We carried our cargo ashore and piled it up together, and 
started back to the ship for another load. The tide was 
coming in, and it was hard work to pole the heavy raft 



1 6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

against it, so I went ashore on the beach opposite to where 
the wreck lay, and made one end of my rope fast to a tree, 
and coiled the rest down on the raft. The rope was long 
enough to reach from the shore to the wreck, and when, af- 
ter we had got to the wreck, I made the other end of the 
rope fast in the main channels, I had a line by which I could 
haul the raft back and forth without any trouble. 

That is, I could have done it, only Mr. Crusoe objected 
because his blessed old grandfather had not known enough 
to do the same thing, although, according to Mr. Crusoe's 
account, his grandfather's wreck lay nearer the shore than 
ours did. However, he agreed to let me haul the raft up 
close to the beach, but he wouldn't let me land there, and 
insisted that we should pole the raft around to the creek. 

For the second load Mr. Crusoe said that we must take a 
grindstone, a dozen hatchets, three crow-bars, seven muskets, 
and a roll of sheet-lead. There were only two hatchets on 
board the ship, and neither a grindstone nor a roll of sheet- 
lead, though what he wanted of sheet-lead I never knew. 
He was quite angry when he found that he couldn't load 
up the raft with grindstones and lead, and said that if he 
ever got back to New York he would sue the owners of the 
ship for not supplying her with proper provisions. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 17 

I put the two hatchets, three crow-bars, and seven rifles 
for we had no muskets on the raft, and then I loaded it 
with useful things. I put two more barrels of flour, a barrel 
of beef, and a barrel of pork in the middle of the raft, and 
piled up a hundred tin cans of preserved meat and vegeta- 
bles around them. Then I got some pots and pans from the 
galley, and some China plates and cups, and some knives and 
forks, from the steward's pantry, for now that I had got out 
of the forecastle, I meant to live like a gentleman. I took 
all the captain's clothes, and wanted to get the clothes be- 
longing to the men, but I could not get at the chests because 
the forecastle was full of water. Last of all, I put four mat- 
tresses, four pillows, and a pile of sheets and blankets on 
the top of the barrels, and we then had about all the raft 
would carry. 

Mr. Crusoe grumbled a little, for he said his grandfather 
never brought mattresses, or dishes, or canned provisions 
ashore, and that he did not think it was right for us to do it. 
I said, " Now just look here, Mr. Crusoe ; I suppose your 
grandfather was a very nice man, and you may be sure that 
he would have brought canned provisions ashore only they 
weren't invented when he was alive." 

That seemed to strike him as a good idea, and he said, 
2 



1 8 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

" Well, perhaps you're right, Mike, about the canned things ; 
but we've no right to bring mattresses with us, and I'll die 

before I'll sleep on one of them." 

. 

I wanted to tell him that the only reason his grandfa- 
ther did not take a mattress ashore with him was that he 
didn't have sense enough to be trusted alone on an island ; 
but of course I didn't say so. Why, that ridiculous old man 
never thought to take so much as a teakettle with him, as I 
afterwards found out ; though, luckily, Mr. Crusoe did not 
think of it until a week or two after we had begun to live 
on the island. 

While we were poling up the creek, Mr. Crusoe, not being 
a sailor-man, managed to run one end of the raft ashore in a 
shallow place, and the cargo came near sliding off into the 
water. He was just as pleased as he could be. " It's all 
right, Mike, it's all right," he kept on saying. " My grand- 
father ran his raft ashore in just the same way, and we had 
to do it too. Now, we'll wait for the tide to rise a foot 
higher, and then we'll be afloat again." 

We should have been in a nice scrape if the tide had been 
falling, but as it was rising, I knew the raft would float after 
a while. But I was not going to stay on it and do nothing 
for an hour or two, so I waded ashore and swam out to the 



as 



* 

I I 

O 

W 



W 
H 



O 



fe! 
d 



w 

t-( 
y- 



oo 

K 
O 



Si 



H 

CB 
^ 
g 

H 




JL Ji * *^ *"* ' 

PUBLIC UBRARt 



AfTft, 



*** 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 19 

ship. The wreckage of the main -mast was still floating 
alongside, although most of the other spars had gone adrift 
while the ship was on the reef. I cut the wreckage clear of 
the ship, and then by standing on it, and hauling in the line 
that I had made fast to the shore, I got the whole lot close 
up to the beach, and carried a rope from it to a tree, so that 
it could not go adrift again unless it should come on to blow 
a gale. 

By the time I got back to the raft it was afloat again, and 
we soon got the cargo ashore. It was about time for din- 
ner, and I built a fire, fried some of the ham that Mr. Crusoe 
would call dried goat's flesh, and brought a jug of water 
from the creek about half a mile farther up, where the water 
was fresh. We had a very good dinner, and Mr. Crusoe 
did not find any fault with the plates, though he would oc- 
casionally grumble a little to himself about the mattresses. 

We were too tired to make another trip to the wreck that 
day, and Mr. Crusoe's ankle that was sprung still hurt him 
so much that he said he must lie down a while. He wouldn't 
lie on a mattress, but he lay on the sand in the shade, and 
we both went to sleep for the rest of the afternoon. 



CHAPTER III. 

WHEN we woke up, the sun was nearly down, and I told 
Mr. Crusoe we must hurry to get on board the ship before 
dark. 

"What do you want to go on board the ship to-night 
for ?" he asked. 

" Why, to sleep, of course," said I. 

He looked really unhappy, and said, "Mike, I'm afraid 
you're not quite right in your mind. The idea of going 
back and sleeping on that wreck ! My grandfather slept on 

shore, and so will we." 

% 

"But there isn't the least danger in sleeping on board," 
said I. "The ship will stay where she is, unless we get a 
heavy blow from the southward." 

Mr. Crusoe wouldn't so much as answer, but he began to 
walk around and look up into all the trees. Presently he 
said, pointing to a big tree that was all surrounded with 
thorn-bushes, " There's where I'm going to sleep." 

" But what do ;fbu want to sleep in a tree for ?" I asked. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 21 

" If you will sleep ashore, why don't you sleep on the sand, 
where you can be comfortable ?" 

"And be eaten up by wild beasts half a dozen times be- 
fore morning," he replied. 

I told him that in the first place there were no wild beasts 
on the Pacific islands, and that if there were they would not 
come down to the beach in the night, but would go where 
they could get fresh water. 

"Michael Flanagan," answered Mr. Crusoe, "if you only 
knew what you were saying you would be sorry. I've got 
to sleep in a tree for this one night, or else treat my grand- 
father's memory with disrespect. Now be silent, or I shall 
be angry with you." 

When a man is as obstinate as that, what are you going to 
do about it ? I just kept quiet, and made up a good bed for 
myself on the beach, while Mr. Crusoe tried to climb up the 
tree. He wouldn't let me help him, because nobody helped 
his old lunatic of a grandfather, and he got two good* falls 
among the thorns before he got up into the branches, and 
wedged himself into a place between two limbs, and said 
good-night. 

It must have been about the middle of the night that he 
woke me up by falling down from the tree with an awful 



22 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

crash. He couldn't get himself out of the thorn-bushes till 
I went and helped him, and then it took me about an hour 
to pick the thorns out of him. He had had enough of sleep- 
ing in a tree, and was willing to lie down on a mattress like 
a Christian ; but I heard him groan a good deal before he 
finally dropped asleep. 

I didn't say anything to him in the morning about his ob- 
stinacy, but I only asked if all the thorns were out of him. 
He was quite pleasant, and said that he didn't care anything 
about his fall, because he knew that he had done his duty. 
Of course, if he really considered it his duty to go to sleep in 
a tree and fall out of it, he did what was right ; but I didn't 
consider it my duty to be an idiot because somebody else's 
grandfather was one. 

We worked all that day bringing things ashore from the 
wreck, and must have brought enough canned provisions to 
last us for ten years, besides more flour, beef, pork, and bread. 
I brought one tremendous load of boards ashore, for I sup- 
pose the captain had expected to pick up a lot of Chinese 
passengers somewhere in China, and had brought the boards 
to make bunks with. 

The last thing I did after we had knocked off work on 
the wreck was to cut a topgallant sail adrift from the wreck- 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 23 

age that I had towed ashore. "We made a sort of tent of 
this, and Mr. Crusoe slept under it without saying a word. 
He had had enough of sleeping in trees, and I suppose that, 
if the truth was known, one night of that kind of lodging 
was all that his grandfather ever wanted. 

As the weather looked settled, we agreed to take the next 
day for building a house instead of going to the wreck. Mr. 
Crusoe went to the hill on the north end of the island, and 
found the place where his grandfather used to live. It was 
a little level spot at the foot of the hill, where the rock rose 
up straight for about twenty feet. 

" We'll pitch a tent right against the rock," said he, " and 
we'll surround it with a fence made by driving stakes into 
the ground close together, and then we'll dig a cave in the 
rock so as to have a cellar." 

" What do you want to live right up against a damp rock 
for ?" I asked. 

" So that when the cannibals come to attack us, no- 
body can get at us from the back of our castle," he re- 
plied. 

"They can't get up on the hill and drop rocks down on 
us, and jump down right into the middle of our house, I 
suppose ?" said I. " What's the good of a fence and all that, 



24 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

when you put your Louse where anybody can jump down 
on to the roof of it ?" 

"Do you pretend to know more than my grandfather?" 
asked Mr. Crusoe, looking very fierce. 

Of course I had to say I didn't ; and it was true too. I 
didn't pretend to know more than the old man, for I knew 
I knew more. Why, a boy who had never been at sea more 
than two months would have been ashamed to choose such a 
place for a house. 

" I wonder your grandfather didn't build his house on the 
top of the hill," I said, after a while. " Of course he had 
some good reason ; but if he had done it he could have 
watched for ships, and could have defended himself against 
the cannibals whoever they are." 

But Mr. Crusoe looked so furious that I gave up saying 
anything more about the place for the house, and we went 
to work and pitched the tent. 

Then we cut a lot of stakes, and drove them in the ground 
about two inches apart, and Mr. Crusoe said they would 
grow and make a solid wall, which I didn't believe. The 
fence was to be about fifty feet long, and it took us nearly all 
day to cut and drive stakes enough to make a piece of fence 
six feet long, so I saw we were going to have plenty of work. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 25 

We moved all the things into what was to be our front 
yard, and piled them up so as to make a wall. Mr. Crusoe 
wouldn't leave any open place in this wall for an entrance, 
but he knocked together a sort of ladder, and said we could 
climb over the wall with it, and then pull it over after us. 
He tried it when he had got it finished, but it broke just as 
he got to the top of it, and as he fell he knocked down 
most of the upper part of the wall, which was made of tin 
cans, and I had fairly to dig him out from under them. 
Then he decided that we needn't use a ladder until we had 
finished our regular fence, and that we might leave an open- 
ing in our wall of barrels and cans. He sometimes showed 
a little sense, especially after he had hurt himself. 

You should have seen, though, what a rage he got into 
when I went up on the hill behind the tent and jumped 
down into the yard. He told me that if I ever did it again 
he should have to make an example of me, and said that 
no matter what it might cost, he would do his duty to his 
grandfather. Then all of a sudden he got over being an- 
gry, and took me by both hands, and said he loved me, and 
begged me with tears in his eyes to do as he wanted me to 
do. I promised that I would ; for, aggravating as he was, 
he was good to me, and I was always anxious to please him. 



26 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

For the next two weeks I went to the wreck two or three 
times every day, and brought ashore no end of things, while 
Mr. Crusoe worked part of the time at his fence, and part 
of the time at making a cave. The rock was soft and crum- 
bling, and Mr. Crusoe worked his way into it with a crow- 
bar at a pretty good rate ; but one day, after the cave was 
about six feet deep, part of the roof fell in on him, and bur- 
ied him all but his head, so deep that he could not move. 
By good -luck this happened early in the morning, and I 
had plenty of time to dig him out. I got him out after 
working till long after noon, but all the time I expected the 
rock would cave in again and bury us both. After it was 
all over, Mr. Crusoe said that the cave was large enough for 
the present, and that he would not work any more on it un- 
til more important things were attended to, and in fact he 
let it alone for good and all. 

We got the fence done at last, and made a good stout lad- 
der so as to climb over it safely. But Mr. Crusoe would 
have the tops of the stakes cut to a sharp point, and as he 
was only a landsman, and couldn't climb well, he was con- 
tinually getting caught on the points ; and once, when I 
came back from the wreck, I found him hanging with his 
head down, with his trousers caught on a sharp stake, and 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 27 

he said lie had been hanging for two hours. After this he 
sawed off the points at the place where we climbed over the 
fence, and was able to keep himself right side up. 

He wanted me to cut the ship's cables into short lengths, 
and pile them up inside of the fence so as to strengthen it ; 
but I explained to him that I couldn't cut up chain-cables, 
and that even if I could, the lengths would be too heavy to 
bring ashore. His grandfather might have cut up the ca- 
bles belonging to his own ship because they were made of 
hemp, but I told Mr. Crusoe that ships never carried hemp 
cables nowadays. He said it was an outrage, and he would 
make the owners smart for it, but all the same he had to 
give up his idea of strengthening the fence with cables. 
However, he dug up a great deal of earth in the front yard 
and piled it against the fence, and so made a beautiful hole 
for water to collect in whenever it should rain. 

We had made loop-holes in the fence to shoot through, 
and nothing would satisfy Mr. Crusoe but to mount the 
rifles on gun-carriages like cannons, and have them always 
loaded and pointed out of the loop-holes. I knew well 
enough that he must have got this idea from his grandfather, 
and it was as ridiculous as most of that foolish old man's 
ideas. In the first place, while the rifles were mounted, you 



28 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

could never hit anybody with them, unless somebody hap- 
pened to be directly in front of them ; and, in the second 
place, they were certain to be ruined by rust. But I let 
Mr. Crusoe have his own way with all but two rifles, and 
those, I told him, we must keep to carry with us when we 
went outside of the fence. He made the most rickety gun- 
carriages you ever saw, and if he had fired his rifles only 
once they would have kicked the carriages all to pieces. 
However, he was very proud of his work, and said that now 
the place began to look as it must have looked when his 
grandfather was there. That very night he thought he 
heard a noise, and got up and fell over one gun-carriage, 
and knocked it over against the next one, and that one fell 
against another, so that the whole of them came down, and 
one rifle went off of its own accord, and there was " day- 
break to westward " for a few minutes, as Nigger Jim, who 
was one of the H. G. Thompsons crew, was always saying 
when something extraordinary happened. The next day he 
said that he wouldn't take the time just then to repair the 
gun-carriages, and that I might put the rifles in the tent. 
I told him that I supposed that rifles were not invented in 
his grandfather's time, and he brightened up and said " that 
was so," and that as we did not have any muskets like those 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 29 

that his grandfather had, he did not think that it was abso- 
lutely necessary for us to mount the rifles. 

One day Mr. Crusoe took a piece of board, and cut on it 
in large letters, " I came on shore here on the 18th of Sep- 
tember, 1881," and nailed it to a big post, and set it up in a 
hole that he dug for it on the beach. In the side of the 
post he cut a notch every day, and a deeper one every Sun- 
day. This, he said, would be our almanac ; though what is 
the use of an almanac that does not give you the sun's dec- 
lination, and Greenwich time, and other things that I know 
you've got to get out of the almanac when you go to work 
up your observations, I can't see. 

The curious thing about Mr. Crusoe's almanac was the 
way in which it made the time fly. Whenever Mr. Crusoe 
hadn't anything else to do, he would go and cut two or three 
weeks of notches on his post. After we had been on the 
island only twenty-three days, according to my reckoning, 
the post showed that we had been there nearly three months, 
and Mr. Crusoe wouldn't hear a word against it, but always 
insisted that his almanac was right. He would say one day, 
"Mike, we have now been here ten weeks, and I think we 
are getting on very slowly with our house ;" and the very 
next day he would say, " We have been here now thirteen 



30 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

weeks and four days, and our provisions are holding out 
very well." I tried at first to remember the real dates, but 
Mr. Crusoe got me so confused that I had to give it up. 

We had been ashore, I should think, about six weeks, and 
had pretty well stripped the ship of everything that was 
useful, when Mr. Crusoe proposed that we should begin to 
saw the ship into pieces and bring them ashore. I told him 
that the first heavy blow from the southward would bring 
on a sea that would break her up fast enough, but he would 
not be satisfied unless I would saw through every timber 
and stanchion and deck-beam. I had to begin it, just to sat- 
isfy him, though I knew it was all foolishness, but by good- 
luck it turned out that I only had to work at the job one 
day. 



CHAPTER IY. 

I WAS pretty tired when night came, after sawing away 
all day at the timbers of the wreck, but I didn't like the 
looks of the sky, and I told Mr. Crusoe that it might rain 
before morning, and we'd better make ready for it, but he 
said " Oh no ! it wouldn't rain for at least a month yet, for 
the dry season wasn't over." 

I had knocked up a bunk, that stood about a foot from 
the ground inside of the tent, to sleep in ; but Mr. Crusoe 
wouldn't sleep in a bunk, but slept on a mattress, with noth- 
ing between it and the ground but a half-inch plank. He 
had given up his notion that he mustn't sleep on a mattress, 
but I suppose he bargained with his conscience by not sleep- 
ing in a bunk. 

Soon after sunset the wind began to blow from the south- 
ward, and by the time we turned in, which was generally 
about half-past seven, because we had nothing to do after 
supper, there was a pretty stiff breeze. It freshened all 
through the night, and after a while it began to rain. 



32 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

I slept soundly enough, but Mr. Crusoe waked me up in 
the night by climbing into my bunk and breaking the whole 
affair down ; for I never meant to make it strong enough to 

o o 

hold two. When it broke down it landed us into a foot of 
water ; and what, through being waked up so suddenly, and 
finding somebody hanging on to me, I couldn't at first think 
where I was, and I had pretty nearly choked Mr. Crusoe to 
death before I really understood things. 

The rain had run down from the hill into the enclosure 
where our tent stood, and as it couldn't get out, owing to 
the fence being banked up with earth, it stayed there. It 
was, as I said, about a foot deep when I woke up, and it was 
getting deeper every minute. The water had roused Mr. 
Crusoe up about half an hour before he woke me, and after 
he had found it too cold to stand with his feet in the water 
any longer, he had tried to sit on the edge of my bunk till 
morning. 

It was raining just as if the tanks that held the rain had 
burst and let it all out with a rush, instead of letting it run 
through a strainer, and come down in drops, as it generally 
does. I never saw it rain so hard before or since, and the 
water kept rising in our house so fast that we could see it 
rise. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 33 

My first idea was to knock a hole in the fence and let the 
water out, but it took me so long to do it, owing to the solid 
way in which the stakes were driven into the ground, that 
the water was nearer two feet than one foot deep when I 
finally managed to let it out. But all of it wouldn't run out, 
for Mr. Crusoe had dug so much earth out of the front yard 
that it was lower than the ground outside the fence. As 
for mud, the whole place was just one big mud -hole, and 
when we tried to walk we kept constantly slipping up and 
sitting down in the water. So we gave it up after a while, 
and went outside and sat in the lee of a rock that kept a lit- 
tle of the full force of the rain off of us ; but for all that, you 
could have wrung us both out every ten minutes, and filled 
a big bucket with water every time. 

Mr. Crusoe felt so cold and miserable that he didn't want 
to talk much. Besides, the wind howled so that we could 
hardly hear each other. He did say, however, two or three 
times, as if he was speaking to himself, " I can't make it 
out ; I can't make it out." 

" What can't you make out, Mr. Crusoe ?" asked I, when 
the wind lulled a bit. 

" Why, how it was that my grandfather wasn't drowned 
out the same as we have been." 
3 



34 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

" Perhaps it didn't rain," said I. 

" But it did rain ; for in my grandfather's book he men- 
tions a violent rain." 

" Then you may depend upon it that he got his house full 
of water, and went and built another in a better place," I 
said, u only he felt ashamed to mention it." 

" Mike," said Mr. Crusoe, " while I can't allow you to talk 
in that way of my grandfather, I think you are partly right 
in what you say, for he did build another house, which he 
called his country-house, in a beautiful valley." 

" And I'll bet you anything that he lived in his country- 
house all the year round, and gave up trying to live in a 
house right under the scuppers of a big hill the first time 
he found his bed all afloat." 

Mr. Crusoe didn't answer me, so I knew he thought I was 
right, and after waiting a while I said, 

" In the morning, Mr. Crusoe, if it stops raining, we'll build 
a good, substantial plank house that will keep out the rain, 
and we'll put it where the water will run off of it instead of 
into it. I'm sure that's what your grandfather did when he 
built his country-house, and we ought to imitate him." I just 
added that little remark to please Mr. Crusoe, for his grand- 
father must have been the worst man to imitate that ever 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 35 

lived. Why, a hand-organ monkey would have too much 
sense to imitate him. 

Mr. Crusoe said that he was delighted that I was begin- 
ning to appreciate his grandfather, and that we'd build a 
country-house the first thing next day. 

Well, the storm blew itself out by daylight, but it took a 
good six hours for the sea to go down. There wasn't a 
particle of the wreck visible in the morning, for the wind 
and sea must have worked it off the beach, and carried it over 
towards the reef, and it must have sunk in deep water, for 
we never saw the first bit of wreckage afterwards. The spars 
that I had towed ashore were missing too, but some of them 
came on to the beach again at high tide a few days later. 

Things were pretty damp in our house, but there was not 
much of anything that was really spoiled. The guns and all 
the iron tools were rusted, and the mattresses and blankets 
were soaking, but a little bright sunshine made them all 
right. Mr. Crusoe's cave had caved in again, and was now 
spoiled for good ; but as we did not intend to live in the 
house any longer, Mr. Crusoe didn't take much interest in 
the cave. He said that we would live in our country-house, 
and keep the first house for a fort and a place to sleep in 
now and then. 



3 6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

We spent the morning in getting our tilings dry, and in 
the afternoon we selected a place for our new house, and 
pitched our tent there. The way we selected it was this : 
Mr. Crusoe wanted to go clear over to the other side of the 
island, where he said there was a beautiful valley, but I 
wanted to build on a little rising ground under some big 
trees. I got him to come and look at the place, but before 
he had begun to find fault with it he accidentally picked up 
a flat stone, and found " E. C., 1671," scratched on one side 
of it. He said the letters had been scratched by his revered 
grandfather, and that the stone was a sign that we should 
build the house just where we stood, which was what I 
meant the stone to be when I scratched the letters on it, and 
dropped it where he could find it. 

As Mr. Crusoe couldn't remember how his grandfather's 
country-house was built, he let me build the new house to 
suit myself. I began by setting four posts in the ground, 
one for each corner of the house, and then set other posts 
between them. To these I nailed planks on the inside of 
the house till the four sides were all covered. Then I 
planted another set of posts about a foot outside of the first 
posts, and planked these on the outside. In this way I had 
a double shell for the house, and I filled up the place be- 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 37 

tween the two shells with dry sand rammed down hard. 
One side of the house I made four feet higher than the 
other side, so that I could make a slanting roof, and I 
lashed the roof beams to the upright posts, for I didn't 
want the roof to blow off, and I was afraid to trust to 
nails. 

I left a place for a door, and also for one window two feet 
square. In each side of the house I made loop-holes, out of 
which we could fire in every direction. The door I made 
of six thicknesses of one-inch planks, and swung it on two 
iron rods that once were pump rods on board the H. G. 
Thompson. I made a window-shutter as thick as the door, 
and put stout wooden rests on each side of the door and 
window in which I could put crow-bars, as bars to fasten 
them. The edges of the planks of the roof and sides of 
the house overlapped one another, so that no rain could 
get in. 

Inside of the house I made two bunks, and put up a lot 
of shelves, so that I could put all our small things where 
they would be dry. The guns were hung on rests on each 
side of the house, so that at least one could always be handy 
to any one who was looking out of a loop-hole. Of course 
I made a good plank floor for the house, and you have no 



38 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

idea how comfortable and safe it was. Nobody could break 
open the door when once we had barred it ; and if you had 
fired rifle-bullets at the house all day, not one of them could 
have gone through the wall. 

I did not put any chimney on the house, for I knew I 
could not make the roof tight enough to keep out the rain 
where the chimney came through. You see I hadn't lived 
in my grandmother's shanty without learning something. 
Then I didn't fill the house all up with tin cans, for they 
couldn't be much hurt by rain ; so I piled them all together 
outside of the house, and put a little tent over them. I 
made a fireplace out-doors under the trees, and put a sort of 
wooden roof over it, to keep rain from putting the fire out. 

It took nearly six weeks to build this house, and when it 
was done Mr. Crusoe wanted to build a wall all around it. I 
asked him how long it was since we had driven in the stakes 

* 

of the fence around our first house. 

He went down to the beach and looked at his almanac, 
and said that it was thirteen months since we drove the first 
stake. According to my calculation it was about ten weeks. 

" Are they beginning to sprout yet ?" asked I. 

"Well, no," replied Mr. Crusoe, "I can't really say they 



are." 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 39 

" Then," said I, " you see we haven't found the kind of 
stakes that your grandfather used, for if we had they'd have 
sprouted months ago." 

" That's so," said Mr. Crusoe, in a gloomy sort of way. 

" Then we might as well give up building a fence. We've 
got a house now that nobody can get into, and what we 
want to do is to cut down the trees and bushes around the 
house, so that the hannibals can't hide in them and shoot at 
us," I said. 

" Cannibals, boy ; not hannibals," exclaimed Mr. Crusoe. 

" All right, then," I answered ; " call .them anything you 
choose, and I'll cut the trees down." 

I was surprised that he didn't make some objection to 
cutting the trees down ; but that was just his way. You 
never could tell beforehand whether he would be angry or 
pleased at anything you might propose. 

However, I was very glad that I had got him out of the 
notion of building a fence ; and it's my belief that his grand- 
father's yarn about fence-posts that sprouted was a regular 
twister. No man ever saw fence-posts growing, I don't care 
whose grandfather he was. 

Mr. Crusoe helped me cut down the trees, and I will say 
for him that there wasn't a lazy bone in his whole body. 



40 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

One day when he was resting, and feeling of the edge of his 
axe, he said, 

" Mike, I told you long ago that it was all wrong for you 
to be here. When members of my family are shipwrecked 
they are always the only people saved. Now I ought to 
have come ashore alone, and you ought to have been drown- 
ed. You must see that." 

" I'm very sorry to incommode you, sir," I replied, " but 
it's too late now to be sorry that I wasn't drowned." 

"I might kill you, I suppose," continued Mr. Crusoe. "I 
suppose that would make it all right ; but I don't want to 
do it if I can help it. Still, there's the fact that I'm not 
following my grandfather's example in coming ashore alone, 
and living alone, and I feel uneasy about it." 

" Hadn't we better wait till we get through this job, sir ?" 
I asked. " You couldn't cut down all these trees alone very 
well." 

" That's so," said he, brightening up. " I'll not kill you 
anyway until we get this piece of ground cleared, and in the 
mean time we can talk it over. I'm sure I don't want to 
kill you, Mike, if we can see any way out of it." 

This was a nice state of things. I be^an to think that 

o o 

perhaps Mr. Crusoe's mind might have gone adrift, and that 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 41 

perhaps he really would try to kill me. But then I couldn't 
really think that of him, for he had been so good to me, and 
I made up my mind that he was joking. However, I thought 
I'd be on the safe side, so I said, 

"Mr. Crusoe, did your grandfather ever kill anybody ex- 
cept cannibals and such ?" 

" No," said he, " I don't think he did, except the muti- 
neers that came ashore with Will Atkins." 

" Then you wouldn't be following his example if you 
killed me, would you ?" I asked. 

"Perhaps you're right, Mike," he answered; "but don't 
let us talk any more about it. I don't think it's a pleasant 
subject !" 

And I'm sure I didn't think so either. 



CHAPTER V. 

WE had* never explored the island, for we had been too 
busy with other things ; but after our house was finished, 
Mr. Crusoe said that we must set out on an exploring ex- 
pedition. 

It was warm weather, but that didn't prevent Mr. Crusoe 
from loading himself and me with about a thousand pounds 
of luggage. He carried in a belt around his waist a sword, 
a saw, a hatchet, and two revolvers. Then he lashed on his 
shoulders a basket holding two blankets and a lot of pro- 
visions, and he carried a shot-gun on one shoulder and a rifle 
on the other. He made me carry another load just like his 
own, and he grumbled because he did not have an umbrella 
to keep the sun off. 

We started early in the morning to climb the big hill, at 
the foot of which we built our first house. If the luggage 
weighed a thousand pounds when we started, it weighed at 
least ten thousand before we got to the top of the hill. Mr. 
Crusoe's sword and his saw kept getting between his legs 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 43 

and tripping him tip every little while, and when he came 
down you'd have thought by the noise that a tin-peddler's 
wagon had capsized. He fell on the edge of the saw once, 
but it was probably a good thing, for it helped him to get 
up quicker than I ever saw a man get up before. I ex- 
pected to see some of his guns and pistols go off every time 
he fell, but they didn't do it. 

We were as hot and tired when we got to the top of the 
hill as if we had walked twenty miles, and Mr. Crusoe piled 
up his cargo on the ground and lay down to rest. We could 
see the whole island from the place where we were. It was 
about two miles across and three miles long, and the coral 
reef ran all around it, except just where there was the open- 
ing that we could see from the beach. Far away to the 
southward I could see land, but it was so far off that you 
could hardly tell it from a faint cloud. 

I had brought the ship's ensign in my basket unknown to 
Mr. Crusoe, and I now got it out, for I meant to set it, union 
down, on one of the big trees on the top of the hill. 

Mr. Crusoe, tired as he was, jumped up and snatched it 
away from me. 

" I know what you meant to do with that," he said ; " you 
were going to signal the cannibals that we are here." 



44 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

"I never thought about the cannibals," said I, "and I 
don't believe in them very much anyway. I was going to 
set the ensign as a signal of distress, so that some vessel can 
see it, and come and take us off." 

" That's just as bad," said Mr. Crusoe. " You are getting 
tired of this place, and want to get away from me. You're 
an ungrateful boy. There's hardly another boy living who 
wouldn't be glad to be shipwrecked on Robinson Crusoe's 
own island, and yet you can't appreciate it, and want to get 
away." 

" But, Mr. Crusoe," I said, " we must get away from here 
some time, you know, and we never will unless some ship 
comes and takes us off." 

"No ship will come until we've been here twenty-eight 
years," replied he. " Of course the Spanish ship will como 
and be wrecked here after a while, but that won't be any 
help to us. No ship would see your flag, if you did put it 
on the top of a tree, until the twenty-eight years are up, so 
don't say any more about it." 

I put the flag back in the basket, but I did say, " Why 
don't you want to get away from here, Mr. Crusoe ?" 

" Never you mind," he answered ; " I'm free now, and I 
mean to stay so for twenty-eight years." 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 45 

I remembered then that Mr. Crusoe's servant used to 
watch him pretty closely when we were at sea, and I thought 
it was just possible that Mr. Crusoe had done something, 
and that the man was taking him to San Francisco to put 
him in prison. That would account for his being so willing 
to stay on the island. 

We stayed on the hill till we got good and rested, and 
then Mr. Crusoe said that, since we could see the whole of 
the island, it wasn't worth while to explore it any more that 
day, and we would go home and put away our luggage. I 
was glad to hear this, but I thought I had seen some animals 
moving across a clearing on the other end of the island, and 
when I pointed them out to Mr. Crusoe he said they were 
goats. 

After that he didn't think any more about going home, 
but said we would go and shoot a couple of goats before we 
did anything else. He started off in a great hurry, but be- 
fore he had gone ten feet his sword tripped him up, and he 
rolled part way down the hill, scattering guns and pistols and 
things all around him, and finally brought up with his head 
against a stone. He was insensible when I got to him, but 
a cut that the hatchet had made in the side of his head was 
bleeding nicely, and that brought him to in a very few min- 



46 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

utes. As soon as he was able to sit up, lie said he must go 
home and lie down, so we gave up the goats for that day. 

It was two days before Mr. Crusoe was well enough to 
explore any more, and even then he was too weak and stiff 
to carry a very heavy load, so he took only one gun and his 
revolvers. This time we walked along the shore till we 
came to the other end of the island, when Mr. Crusoe sud- 
denly remembered that we must find a magnificent cave that 
his grandfather used to keep somewhere near the south side 
of the island. 

There was no sign of a cave where we were, so we went 
into the woods and searched everywhere. Whenever Mr. 
Crusoe saw a hole in the ground large enough to put his 
arm into, he would think he had found his cave ; and it was 
very lucky that there were no snakes on the island, or he 
would have run foul of some of them at the bottom of some 
of the holes that he put his arm or a leg into. 

We searched for that cave for at least two hours, and I 
was beginning to believe that there wasn't any cave on the 
whole island, when we came to a small hill with a hole in 
the side of it, just big enough to get your head and shoul- 
ders into it. "Here we are at last," says Mr. Crusoe; and 
he lit a candle that he had brought with him, and took 




BEFORE HE HAD GONE TEN FEET HIS SWORD TRIPPED 

HIM UP." 



THE HEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIB RAKY 



AIT**, *.* *** 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 47 

his coat off, and jammed his head and shoulders into the 
hole. For some reason he couldn't get any farther I al- 
ways supposed the reason was that the cave was only two 
or three feet deep, though he always pretended it was his 
grandfather's genuine private cave and when he tried to 
back out again he found he couldn't do that. So there he 
was, stuck fast, and pretty mad at everything. The candle 
had gone out, but not until it had set his hair on fire and 
burned his eyebrows and eyelashes, and the candle-smoke 
had got into his eyes, besides partly choking him. He was 
fitted into the hole so tight that his voice sounded as if he 
were half a mile away, but I managed to understand most 
of what he said. 

I got- a good hold of both of his legs, and braced myself 
and pulled my very best, but his boots fetched loose, and I 
sat down pretty hard, with a boot in each hand. Then I got 
a better hold of his ankles, and hauled away, but I couldn't 
start him ; and after a while Mr. Crusoe said that he thought 
he had begun to come apart at the waist, and that I needn't 
pull any more. 

Then I thought I would try oil ; so I went back to the 
house and got a bottle of sweet-oil, and poured it on him as 
near to his shoulders as I could reach, and then took a fresh 



48 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

pull at him, but I couldn't start tack nor sheet of him. He 
was getting low-spirited by this time, and said he didn't be- 
lieve he could ever get out of that hole, but I told him that 
if he didn't eat anything for a few days he would be sure to 
thin down, so that I could pull him out. 

However, he did not want to wait so long, and proposed 
that I should get a crow-bar and break the rock away around 
his shoulders. He was giving me a good deal of trouble, 
but I didn't mind that, for I was in hopes that he would 
have had enough of hunting for caves if he once got out of 
the one he was in. So I went all the way back to the house 
once more and got a crow-bar, and went to work at the rock. 
Of course I couldn't help hitting him occasionally, but I 
didn't do him any serious harm. It was slow work, but I 
gradually broke the rock away, so that by an extra heavy 
pull I dragged him out. 

What with his hair and eyebrows having been burned, 
and his face smoked and scratched, and his clothes torn and 
soaked with oil, and bloody on account of two or three digs 
that I had accidentally given him with the crow-bar, Mr. 
Crusoe looked pretty bad when he came out of the cave. 
But he was very grateful to me, and said I had saved his 
life a second time, and that he certainly wouldn't kill me 
for a week yet. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 49 

I supposed lie would have been willing to quit searching 
for his grandfather's caves and things ; but no ! he insisted 
upon looking for a valley full of grapes, where his grand- 
father had a country-house. So, after he had taken a dip in 
the surf, and made himself look a little more decent, we 
marched on again. 

"We did not find any grapes, though we searched the isl- 
and all over for them, and at last Mr. Crusoe had to give it 
up, and admit that there wasn't a grape on the island. He 
explained it by saying that Will Atkins and his gang natu- 
rally made wine out of the grapes, and got drunk, and then 
tore the vines up by the roots. As near as I could make 
out, this "Will Atkins was the captain of a gang of train-rob- 
bers who lived on the island when Mr. Crusoe's uncle was 
there. There were a lot of Spaniards too, Mr. Crusoe said, 
who lived with Will Atkins, but were very good men ; so I 
suppose they brought information to Will Atkins, and stood 
in with him, but didn't actually knock people down and rob 
them. If old Mr. Crusoe had been half the man Mr. Crusoe 
pretended to think he was, he would have taken his seven 
guns and cleaned out the whole island. 

We found the valley we were looking for by following 
old Mr. Crusoe's sailing directions, which were : to go up the 
4 



5o A New Robinson Crusoe. 

creek where we first landed till we came to the end of it, 
and then to cross over a little hill. Mr. Crusoe said that the 
valley was all right, and looked just as it ought to have 
looked, except that there were no grapes ; but I showed him 
that there was no end of cocoa-nut-trees, and that cocoa-nuts 
were a great deal more useful than grapes. 

" Were there cocoa-nut-trees here, sir, when your grand- 
father was here ?" I asked Mr. Crusoe. 

" I suppose there were," he replied ; " for in his book 
he speaks of ' cocoa-trees,' which must have been the same 
thing." 

" Then, of course, he made dishes out of the shells, and 
drank the milk, and made cocoa-nut pies and such," I con- 
tinued. 

" He didn't do anything of the kind," answered Mr. Cru- 
soe ; " at least, I don't think he could have made cocoa-nut 
pies, for he was never sick but once ; and I know he didn't 
use cocoa-nut dishes, because he made clay dishes." 

" Well," said I, " we can use cocoa-nuts, can't we, whether 
he did or not 3" 

" Mike," said Mr. Crusoe, looking at me as if I wasn't fit 
to live, " if you touch even the outside of a cocoa-nut you'll 
wish that you had eaten a dozen cocoa-nut pies that is, if I 



A Neiv Robinson Crusoe. 51 

can find a way to make yon suffer as you would deserve to 
suffer. How dare you propose to do what my grandfather 
didn't do 1" 

So when I wanted a cocoa-nut I had to watch my chance 
and take one when Mr. Crusoe was out of sight. This, of 
course, made me the more anxious for cocoa-nuts, and twice 
I made myself pretty sick by eating too many. I don't 
think that three or four cocoa-nuts would hurt anybody, but 
you can't eat many more at one time without running the 
risk of being twisted all up into a Turk's-head knot. 

Mr. Crusoe insisted that we must build a country-house 
in the valley. I had had about enough of building houses, 
and I told him so, but it didn't make any impression on 
him. His grandfather had a country-house in that very val- 
ley, and so we must have one. I suppose if his grandfather 
had happened to have a broken leg anywhere on the island, 
we should have had to break one of our legs in the same 
place. 

I said to him, " Mr. Crusoe, now just look at this a min- 
ute. Did your grandfather have three houses?" 

" No, I can't say he did." 

"But if we build a house here we shall have three, and 
I'm sure that will be wrong," I said. 



52 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

Mr. Crusoe didn't say anything, but just stood and looked 
at me. 

"Then," I went on, "your grandfather didn't have a 
house in a cocoa-nut valley, but in a grape valley. Now this 
is a cocoa-nut valley, and I don't believe your grandfather 
would ever have been willing to build a house right in the 
middle of a cocoa-nut grove. Why, it seems to me it would 
be almost wicked to do such a thing. Of course we should 
both be glad to build a new house, but I think we ought to 
be sure that it is the kind of thing that your grandfather 
would have done." 

Mr. Crusoe was so pleased that he was almost ready to 
hug me, and he said that we would wait a few days, and his 
grandfather would probably appear to him in a dream and 
tell him just what to do. So I got rid of building another 
house, for Mr. Crusoe was never able to dream about it, 
although he tried his best. 



CHAPTER VI. 

MR. CRUSOE had been so busy hunting for caves and val- 
leys that he had not had time to hunt for goats ; but after 
he had given up his idea of building another house, he said 
we would shoot two or three goats, and catch some more, so 
that we could have a flock of tame goats, and have milk and 
butter and cheese. 

We each took two guns with us, but we left the swords 
and saws and hatchets at home. I wanted to go straight to 
the place where we saw the goats, but Mr. Crusoe said they 
were so wild that we could never get near enough to them 
to shoot them unless we could get on the top of a hill when 
the goats were in a valley. We found a good place half-way 
up a hill, where we could hide behind some bushes, and in a 
little while we saw a flock of about thirty goats, and shot 
two of them. 

We carried the goats home, though they were pretty heavy, 
and then Mr. Crusoe skinned them, and put the skins out to 
dry in the sun, while I roasted a splendid big piece of goat 



54 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

for dinner. But we couldn't eat it, because it was a piece of 
a goat old enough to have known Mr. Crusoe's grandfather, 
and Mr. Crusoe said that we would go out again and shoot a 
kid. This time we shot a kid and another old goat, and 
when we had skinned them both we buried all three of the 
old goats, and had a good dinner of roast kid. 

The next day Mr. Crusoe made me go with him into the 
valley where we killed the goats, and dig what . he called a 
pitfall. This was a hole six feet deep and about three feet 
wide, and he meant it for a trap to catch goats. "When it 
was finished he covered the top of it with big weeds like 
mullein-stalks, so that when the goats came to walk on it 
they would fall in. 

It was a very nice trap, I suppose, but it never caught 
anything but Mr. Crusoe. We used to go to it to look for 
goats every night and morning for about a week, but no goat 
was ever stupid enough to walk into it. The last time, how- 
ever, that we went to it Mr. Crusoe went too near the edge, 
and it caved in with him. He never could have got out of 
the trap alone, but as I was there I pulled him out without 
much trouble. 

I said to him that if he would leave it to me I would catch 
as many goats as he wanted, and he said I could do what I 



A Neiv Robinson Crusoe. 55 

liked, but that lie didn't want anything more to do with pit- 
falls. 

I took half a dozen old tomato-cans that we had emptied, 
and dropped them in a sort of careless way where I knew 
the goats would find them, and then hid behind a tree. Pretty 
soon the goats came along on their way to the creek to get a 
drink, and as soon as they saw the tomato-cans they went at 
them as if they were starving, and I had no trouble in walk- 
ing right up to them, and making a line fast around the 
necks of an old goat and her three kids. You see I knew, 
from living in my grandmother's shanty, that there is noth- 
ing that goats are so fond of as they are of tomato-cans, and 
so I felt sure that by using tomato -cans as ground -bait I 
could catch goats as easy as anything. 

It struck me as a very curious thing that when I started 
for home, leading the three kids and the goat, all the rest of 
the flock came after me, and didn't seem to be in the least 
bit afraid. They followed me all the way to the house, and 
when Mr. Crusoe came out they crowded around him, and 
you would have thought he was their dearest friend instead 
of being a complete stranger. 

Mr. Crusoe, of course, had an explanation ready. He said 
that we must have been very stupid not to remember that 



56 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

his grandfather tamed all the goats on the island, and that 
instead of being wild goats these were some of those that 
belonged to his grandfather. He said that what proved this 
was that the goats were so friendly with him, and that they 
evidently mistook him for his grandfather. He was as 
pleased as he could be about it, and fed the goats with all 
the rubbish that was lying around the house. When I found 
out that the goats were tame, I let those loose that I had 
caught, and the flock went and lay down in the shade of the 
house, as if they meant to live with us for the next twenty- 
eight years. 

When they were hungry or thirsty they would wander 
away, but they always came back again ; and all the rest of 
the time that we were on the island those goats fairly lived 
with us, and you couldn't get up in the night without falling 
over them. 

I could not think what Mr. Crusoe wanted to do with the 
goat-skins ; but when they were dry he went to work to 
make clothes out of them. He made himself a pair of 
breeches that came down to his knees, a jacket without any 
sleeves, and a tremendous big cap that ran up to a point 
about two feet above the top of his head, and had a big flap 
on the back of it which hung down over the back of his 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 57 

neck. It was the ugliest and stiffest and heaviest suit of 
clothes that was ever made, and when Mr. Crusoe had it 
tried on, and found that the breeches were too small and the 
coat too big, he said he would give it to me. 

However, he didn't give it to me until about a week later, 
and by that time he had a new suit made for himself. The 
morning after he had finished it he woke me up to build the 
fire, and for about a minute he frightened me nearly out of 
my mind ; for he had on all his goat-skin clothes, and looked 
worse than any heathen that ever was born. I couldn't just 
at first think who he was, and I really thought that the can- 
nibals he was always talking about had boarded us and were 
going to eat us. 

Mr. Crusoe handed me what he called my suit of goat-skin 
clothes, and told me to put them on. I tried to argue with 
him, but it wasn't of any use, especially as he had taken my 
regular clothes and locked them up or hid them somewhere. 
He told me that we had been on the island nearly three 
years, and our clothes were all worn out, so we must either 
wear goat-skin clothes or no clothes at all ; that his grand- 
father wore goat-skin clothes of the same pattern as those he 
wanted me to wear ; and, finally, that he'd give me just ten 
minutes to get into the goat -skins, and that if I didn't 



58 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

choose to do it he would see that there would be a nice 
coffin for me to wear. 

It didn't take me over five minutes to put, on the goat- 
skin clothes after I saw that Mr. Crusoe was in dead earnest. 
I could have made a pair of breeches out of stove-pipe that 
would have been easy and comfortable by the side of -those 
that Mr. Crusoe gave me ; and as for the cap, it was heavier 
than a flour-barrel, and nothing like as soft. What made me 
so disgusted was that both Mr. Crusoe and I had lots of de- 
cent Christian clothes that would have lasted us for three or 
four years, but he was that aggravating that he wouldn't 
wear them, and wouldn't let me wear them. 

We couldn't eat much breakfast that morning, and I sup- 
pose it was because we looked so frightful that we took each 
other's appetites away. And then we had to eat standing 
up, for the goat-skin was so stiff that we couldn't sit down 
until we had pounded our breeches two or three hours with 
the back of an axe. The goats themselves did not know us 
till we spoke to them, and when they first saw us they 
started on a run for the woods. 

Mr. Crusoe must have found his clothes as hard to wear 
as mine were, but he bore it, and never gave the least sign 
that he was uncomfortable. I didn't dare to say anything 




HE LOOKED WORSE THAN ANY HEATHEN THAT EVER WAS BORN. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 59 

before him, but I used to go off by myself and take my 
clothes off every little while and be comfortable ; that is, I 
was comfortable after the sun got through blistering me, 
which it did at first. 

If our clothes had really been worn out we could have 
made good clothes out of sail - cloth ; and so could that 
wretched old idiot Mr. Crusoe's grandfather, if he had only 
had the least bit of sense ; for, according to Mr. Crusoe, he 
saved a great deal of canvas from his wreck. But of course 
he did the most stupid and preposterous thing he could do, 
for that was what he always did. Give him a choice of two 
courses to steer, one right and one wrong, and he'd never 
fail to take the wrong one. 

You may say that, being all alone, and his own master, old 
Mr. Crusoe had a right to do what he pleased about building 
houses and making clothes. I don't say he hadn't, provided 
he was never going to have a grandson ; but you see he did 
have a grandson, and I was cast away with that grandson, 
and then the consequences of old Mr. Crusoe's foolishness all 
came on me. I think that if a man is cast away all alone it 
is his duty to set an example to other people that may be 
cast away after him, instead of doing the wrong thing every 
chance he gets. 



60 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

Mr. Crusoe wasn't satisfied with what he had done in 
making clothes. He said that we must have goat-skin um- 
brellas, and carry them over our heads to keep the sun off. 
I took the liberty of telling him that since he was a lands- 
man it was all right for him to carry an umbrella, but that 
it would be a disgrace to a sailor to carry one, so he agreed 
to let me live without an umbrella. He killed four goats, 
and used their skins to cover the frame of an umbrella that 
he made partly out of wire and partly out of wood. When 
it was done it would keep the rain off and the sun off, and 
I believe it would have kept off a shower of grape-shot, but 
it was so heavy that Mr. Crusoe could only carry it by hold- 
ing it with both hands, and then it tired him so that he 
couldn't walk half a mile with it. 

" What puzzles me," he said to me after he had tried his 
umbrella, " is to understand how my grandfather could have 
carried that umbrella of his and a gun on each shoulder at 
the same time. He must have been the strongest, as well as 
the best and wisest, man that ever lived. Don't you think 
so, Mike ?" 

" Certainly," said I. " He must have been stronger than 
* Samson, for Samson never carried two guns at the same 
time that he was carrying off the gates of Delilah." 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 61 

This pleased Mr. Crusoe, for he didn't understand that by 
saying what I did I meant to say that his grandfather didn't 
tell the truth about his great feat with two guns and a goat- 
skin umbrella. For you can't make me believe that any 
man could carry a gun on each shoulder, and at the same 
time carry an umbrella in both hands, weighing about as 
much as a spare top-gallant mast, and spreading as much sur- 
face to the wind as a main-royal. 

After a few days Mr. Crusoe gave up trying to carry his 
umbrella, and pitched it like a tent in our front yard, and 
the whole flock of goats used to come and lie under it in the 
middle of the day, and sleep under it at night. It blew 
over once or twice, but after that I made guys fast to it and 
led them to trees, and it was so nice and pleasant under the 
umbrella that I proposed to Mr. Crusoe that we should live 
under it altogether instead of living in our house, but he 
wouldn't do it. 

The goat-skin cap troubled him almost as much as the 
umbrella. I lost mine two or three days after it was given 
to me, though you can hardly imagine how much planning 
and smart seamanship it took to lose that cap in the water 
in just such a way that I couldn't fish it out again. After 
that I went bareheaded, which was a great deal more com- 



62 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

f ortable than wearing a heavy cap, and I could see that Mr. 
Crusoe envied me. 

He wouldn't lose his cap, but he got into a habit of tak- 
ing it off and carrying it under his arm whenever we were 
in the shade. Then he said that he was afraid he might 
drop it and lose it some day, so he fastened a lanyard to it, 
which he put around his neck, and which let the cap hang 
at his side under his left arm. Next he began to pick up 
pebbles and bits of wood whenever we were walking to- 
gether, and as his cap was swinging handy at his side, he 
would drop his pebbles and things into it. So before very 
long he gave up using his cap for anything but a bag, and 
never thought of putting it on his head. I suppose he 
sometimes wished that he dared to wear his old comfortable 
Christian hat that he brought ashore from the wreck, but he 
was so much more comfortable with his goat-skin cap swing- 
ing at his side than he was when he used to try to wear it on 
his head that he was probably pretty well satisfied. 

I thought of losing my goat-skin clothes, but I knew it 
would be of no use, and that Mr. Crusoe would be sure to 
build new ones for me, so I bore them as well as I could, 
and tried to enjoy seeing Mr. Crusoe suffer in his. 



CHAPTER VII. 

IT was not very long after we had moved into our goat- 
skin clothes that Mr. Crusoe got up early one morning, and 
came and stood over me with an axe in his hand as I was 
lying asleep on my bed. I woke up suddenly, and saw him 
looking very solemn, and I thought at first that he must 
have been taken sick, so I asked him what was the matter, 
and if I could do anything for him. 

" Nothing is the matter with me," he replied ; " but I 
am sorry you woke up, for I was just going to kill you." 

" That's very kind in you, I'm sure," said I ; " but don't 
you think, Mr. Crusoe, that you could manage to get along 
without killing me till after breakfast ? I ought to get up 
and start the fire, you know." 

Now Mr. Crusoe couldn't bear to start a fire, and when- 
ever he tried it he always got his throat and eyes full of 
smoke, and couldn't get anything to burn except kindlings. 
So he was glad to get rid of making a fire and getting break- 
fast that morning, and he told me that on second thoughts I 

might live till the coffee was ready. 
& j 

;^o< 



64 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

It took me a good while to make a fire that morning, and 
I pretended that I couldn't split kindlings without the axe, 
and when I once got the axe into my hands I took very 
good care not to let Mr. Crusoe get hold of it again. I 
made up my mind, however, that Mr. Crusoe must give up 
his notion about killing me, for it was really getting pretty 
dangerous, now that he had got the idea of knocking me on 
the head with the axe whenever he could catch me asleep. 
So, while the coffee was boiling, I said to him, " Mr. Crusoe, 
the reason why you are going to kill me is that your grand- 
father wasn't cast ashore with an intelligent sailorman, isn't 
it?" 

" That's just it, my dear boy," said he. 

" But," said I, " there was his man Friday, that I've heard 
you talk about. Now why shouldn't I be your man Friday ? 
It won't do for you to try to get on without one, you know 
very well ; and I don't see where your Friday is to come 
from unless I help you out." 

That's an excellent idea, Mike," exclaimed Mr. Crusoe. 

And what's more, if you are Friday I needn't kill you ; 
and I do assure you I don't want to kill you if it can be 
avoided." 

" All right," said I, " I'm your man Friday, and I hope 



u 
a 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 65 

you won't give yourself the least trouble after this about 
killing me." 

Mr. Crusoe was as pleased with the notion of turning me 
into Friday as if he had been made a captain in the navy, 
but he said I couldn't be made into Friday by just saying 
so, and that he would have to think how to do it in the cor- 
rect way. 

After breakfast Mr. Crusoe told me that I must burn a 
piece of cork and black myself all over, and that I might 
move out of my goat-skin clothes, and wear nothing but a 
towel tied round my waist. This suited me perfectly, and 
in a few minutes I was as black as a native African king. 
Then Mr. Crusoe told me I must walk about a mile down 
the beach, and then turn and run back to the house, and he 
would meet me, and consider that I was Friday. 

I can't tell you how nice it was to get rid of my goat-skin 
clothes. I felt as light as a feather ; and after I had walked 
a mile away, and turned to run back, I felt as if I could run 
for a week without stopping. 

I was running my best when Mr. Crusoe stepped out 

from the woods and aimed his gun almost at me. I thought 

first that he was going to shoot me, so the instant he fired 

I dropped flat on the beach, and then jumped up again and 

5 



66 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

ran towards him, so as to get hold of his gun before he 
conld load. 

But he hadn't fired at me after all. As I came towards 
him he put his gun down on the ground and smiled from 
ear to ear, and beckoned me to come to him In the most 
friendly sort of way. Then I remembered what he had told 
me about the way in which his grandfather had introduced 
himself to Friday by shooting a cannibal who was hungry, 
and was chasing Friday so as to catch him and put him on 
the coals. 

When I came where Mr. Crusoe was he patted me on the 
shoulder and said, " Good fellow ! poor fellow ! your ene- 
mies are killed and you are safe now." He couldn't have 
been kinder if I had been a dog ; and when he took me by 
the hand and led me back to the house, and made me lie 
down and drink another cup of coffee, I was pretty well 
satisfied to be Friday. 

He began calling me Friday at once, and never called me 
anything else except once or twice when he got very angry 
at something and called me " You Mike !" When I began 
to talk back to him he stopped me, and said, " Friday, you 
talk too plain. You mustn't say, ( That coffee's awful good !' 
but you must say, * Him coffee berry muchee good !' Ke- 




MIKE TAKES THE PART OF "MAN FRIDAY.' 



THEKEWYOKK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 67 

member that you're a poor, ignorant savage, just beginning to 
learn English, and don't let me have to correct you again." 

I was disappointed to find that I had to climb into my 
goat-skin clothes again ; and when I had finished the coffee, 
and Mr. Crusoe showed me the clothes, and said, " Now, Fri- 
day, you must put on these clothes," I said, " I do wish, Mr. 
Crusoe, you'd let me go as I am now." He looked very 
angry, and said, " What did you say, Friday ? Your broken 
English isn't very easy to understand." I knew what he 
meant then, and said, " Me no likee clothes. Me no wearee 
clothes in my country." This pleased him better, but all the 
same I had to put the clothes on. 

I found it pretty easy to talk as Mr. Crusoe wanted me 
to, and after a while it seemed perfectly natural to be a man 
Friday. It was a nuisance to have to black myself all over 
every time after I had been in swimming, and once I tried 
to get Mr. Crusoe to let me black nothing but my face and 
hands, but he wouldn't agree to it. I really began to feel 
as if I was a real black savage ; and as Mr. Crusoe never said 
anything more about killing me, I could go to sleep without 
fear of having my brains knocked out with the axe. 

The worst thing about it was that Mr. Crusoe would in- 
sist on instructing me, as he called it. He would make me 



68 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

sit down by liiin and listen while he told me that there was 
more of the world than the island where we were, and there 
were great nations of white people who built ships and rail- 
roads and all sorts of things ; just as if I didn't know all 
about it a great deal better than he did, who had never been 
on board a ship but once. However, I had to listen respect- 
fully, and I used to remember that, after all, it was easier to 
sit still and let a man talk than it was to work hard either 
afloat or ashore. But one day he tried to tell me what a 
ship was like. He called it a "big canoe," and I never heard 
any man talk such nonsense as he did when he described 
how a ship is rigged. I really couldn't stand it, so I said, 
" You no talkee sense. Gimme rest ; you makee me tired," 
and I got up and left him. After that he didn't talk to me 
any more about ships. 

Another thing that bothered me was that Mr. Crusoe would 
make me tell him all sorts of yarns about my country. He 
didn't mean America, nor yet Ireland, but some heathen 
country not far from our island, where he maintained that I 
used to live. Of course my stories didn't suit him until I 
found out just what he wanted me to tell. I had to tell 
him that the tribe of savages that I belonged to used to fight 
with another tribe. That was partly true of the Flanagans 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 69 

in old Ireland, for I have often heard my father say how 
they used to fight with the Maguires ; but I thought things 
had come to a pretty pass when I had to call a respectable, 
decent family like the Flanagans a tribe of savages. 

Then, too, Mr. Crusoe was bound to make me tell him 
that there were a whole ship's company of Spaniards in my 
country. I had to make believe that they had been ship- 
wrecked there, and whenever we talked about them Mr. 
Crusoe would sigh, and say that if we only had a boat we 
would set sail and find the Spaniards, and bring them to 
the island. Once he said, " We had better make a canoe, 
Friday, and have it all ready, so that when your father comes 
we can send him in it to bring the Spaniards here." 

I was so astonished to hear him say that my father was 
coming that I almost spoke English to him ; but I recollect- 
ed in time that I was Friday, so I only said, " What you 
meanee ?" 

" Your father, my poor Friday," he answered, " is a very 
old savage, and he has been captured by the enemy. They 
will bring him here to eat him before very long, and then 
we'll rescue him." 

" My father was a respectable Irishman, Mr. Crusoe," said 
I, " and I won't allow any man I don't care who he is to 



/o A New Robinson Crusoe. 

call him an old savage." I was so angry that I got up and 
left Mr. Crusoe after saying this, and I didn't see him again 
till supper-time. However, he never said anything to me 
about it, and perhaps he didn't notice that I had answered 
him in English. 

By this time you must have found out that Mr. Crusoe 
was a very curious man. What was perhaps the strangest 
thing of all about him was that he wouldn't make the least 
attempt to get away from the island. Not only did he for- 
bid me to hoist a signal where any ship could see it, or to 
make a bonfire at night, but he would never listen when I 
proposed building a boat or making a raft, and so trying 
to get over to the main - land ; that is, if it was the main- 
land that we could see from the top of the hill. He would 
always say, whenever I spoke about getting away, that 
an English ship would come for us after a while, and 
that we hadn't been on the island half long enough yet. 
According to the almanac, as he called his post with 
notches cut on it, we had been on the island about two 
years when he turned me into a man Friday, though, 
according to my reckoning, we had been there less than a 
year. But Mr. Crusoe seemed to enjoy himself better the 
longer we stayed, and I made up my mind that he never 



A Neiv Robinson Crusoe. 71 

meant to get away, and that unless I wanted to live and 
die a corked-up savage, I must contrive some plan for get- 
ting away alone. 

I took the saw one afternoon when Mr. Crusoe was asleep, 
and went up to the top of the hill, and climbed the big tree 
that stood at the very top, and had only a few limbs. I be- 
gan at the very top of the tree, and sawed all the limbs off 
except two that were opposite to each other, and stood out 
straight from the tree. Then I trimmed these two limbs 
until the whole tree looked exactly like an enormous cross. 
It stood to reason that no ship could see this cross without 
understanding that some one was on the island, and meant 
the cross to be a signal of distress ; and no Christian ship 
would think of passing by the island without sending a boat 
to find out what was the matter. 

I was afraid that Mr. Crusoe would be in a rage when he 
should find out what I had done, and I didn't suppose it 
would be possible to keep him from finding it out. Still, I 
took the trouble to drag all the sawed-off branches into the 
woods, where Mr. Crusoe would not be likely to find them, 
and brushed up the leaves and the sawdust. 

That night we had a very heavy thunder-storm, and the 
lightning struck three or four times very near us. Mr. 



72 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

Crusoe was a good deal frightened, and told me while 
the shower was going on that his grandfather didn't like 
thunder, and that he was like his grandfather in most 
things. It appears that old Mr. Crusoe was in a terrible 
state of mind when it thundered and lightened, for fear 
that his gunpowder would take fire and blow him up ; and 
it's a great pity that it didn't. My Mr. Crusoe thought that 
he ought to worry about the powder because his grandfa- 
ther did ; but I finally convinced him that when the light- 
ning had the choice of twenty thousand big trees to strike, 
it would not demean itself to strike a little low hut just for 
the sake of looking for some powder to blow up. 

The next morning we happened to walk out where we 
could see my big tree, and I saw that the top of it was splin- 
tered, and that it was burned black. You see, the lightning 
had struck it, and it would have been burnt up if the rain 
had not put the fire out. 

Mr. Crusoe was perfectly delighted when he saw the big 
cross. He never dreamed that I had anything to do with 
it, and he said that it was a sign to tell him that he was do- 
ing right, and that the English ship would come and take 
him off, and that everything would turn out well, only that 
we must hurry up and find my father and the Spaniards on 



A Neiv Robinson Crusoe. 73 

the main -land, and be ready to kill the cannibals and to 
capture Will Atkins. I really began to think that perhaps 
Mr. Crusoe was a little crazy, and resolved that I would 
keep a close watch on him, and stand by to lash him to a 
tree, in case it should become necessary. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

ALTHOUGH Mr. Crusoe wouldn't let me build a boat in 
which we could sail for some Christian country, he made 
up his mind that we must have a boat all ready to send 
over to the main-land in search of his precious Spaniards. 

I couldn't see any use in this. Even if there were any 
Spaniards where we could get at them, they wouldn't have 
been any use to us. Spaniards are all very well in their 
own country, I suppose, but they are the most useless kind 
of sailors. Indeed, you can't make sailors of them if you 
try your very best. I tried to tell Mr. Crusoe that if we 
filled the island up with a lot of Spaniards they would eat 
up all the provisions, and then grumble for more, but he 
wouldn't listen to me. 

We had plenty of wood for the timbers and planking of 
a large boat, and we two together could have built it in a 
short time, but that wouldn't suit Mr. Crusoe. He said we 
must cut down a big tree and hollow it out, so as to make a 
canoe. There wasn't the least use in arguing with him, for 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 75 

lie told me that a poor, ignorant, converted cannibal like 
myself couldn't possibly know anything about boats which 
was pretty hard to bear, especially from a landsman. 

There were plenty of big trees near the water, but Mr. 
Crusoe wouldn't look at them. He selected a tree that 
stood nearly a quarter of a mile from the shore, and said 
that it was just the tree we wanted. I knew he would have 
a good time launching a heavy canoe that would have to be 
dragged over the ground for such a long distance, but I let 
him have his way, which is always the best thing to do 
when you can't help yourself. 

It was a big job cutting that tree down, for it was at least 
three feet thick, but we cut it down at last, or rather I did, 
for Mr. Crusoe soon got tired of swinging his axe, and said 
that he would content himself with superintending me. He 
brought a blanket and a pillow, and put them on the ground 
near the tree, and superintended very comfortably, only the 
tree came down a little sooner than we expected, and he had 
just time to run before it fell directly across the blanket. 

Chopping the tree down was the easiest part of the work. 
It took a week longer to trim off the branches. Then we 
had to cut away the sides of the tree, and shape it something 
like a whale-boat, only without the sheer. This took the 



76 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

best part of another week ; and all this time the only 
thing Mr. Crusoe did was to lie on a blanket and super- 
intend. 

The hardest work of all was to hollow out the canoe. 
Mr. Crusoe said that in my country we always hollowed out 
a log by kindling a fire on the top of it, and of course I had 
to try it. Anybody except a man belonging to the Crusoe 
family would have known that this plan wouldn't work ; and 
even Mr. Crusoe became convinced after a while that a big 
tree couldn't be hollowed out in any such way. 

It took five weeks of good steady work to get that tree 
hollowed out with the adze, but when it was done we really 
had quite a decent-looking boat. Mr. Crusoe wanted to rig 
her before we launched her, but he gave up the idea when I 
asked him if his grandfather rigged his canoe JUefore he 
launched it ; and he was obliged to admit that even that for- 
saken old idiot had sense enough to not do such a ridiculous 
thing. I had always considered old Mr. Crusoe as about 
half-witted, but I had been made by this time to suffer so 
much on account of him that I couldn't bear even to hear 
his name. 

I needn't tell you that when the canoe was ready for 
launching we couldn't stir her. Mr. Crusoe came and put 



o 


d 

CO 

O 



CD 

d 
"d 



tz! 

O 
cc 

H 

K 

a 

w 
d 



fe! 
Q 



O 

fej 

O 
H 




TMEKEWYORK 

PUBLIC LIB > 



ATOM, 
TH.PEN 



4** 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 77 

his shoulder against her, and gave a shove that would hardly 
have started a barrel, and then said, " It's of no use trying ; 
we shall have to dig a canal to the beach." 

Now I didn't very much believe that we could ever 
launch the canoe, though of course I never expected that 
Mr. Crusoe could stir her all alone, but I didn't want to give 
it up without trying. But Mr. Crusoe wouldn't let me try. 
He said that we could bring the water up to the boat by 
means of a canal, and that there was no other possible way 
of launching her. So I had to begin to dig a canal, though 
I knew all the time it was mere foolishness, for it would 
have taken both of us at least four years to dig one broad 
enough and deep enough to float the canoe. However, I 
dug for two days, while Mr. Crusoe superintended, and then 
he said that it was of no use, and I might knock off, and 
that his grandfather once made a canoe that he was never 
able to launch. 

This showed that Mr. Crusoe had never expected to 
launch the canoe, and that he had made me do all the work 
of making it just because his grandfather had been the 
same kind of a lunatic, and had made a big canoe a quarter 
of a mile from the shore. I was always good-tempered, ex- 
cept, of course, when something went wrong, but this time 



78 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

I was angry, and I walked off and didn't speak to Mr. Cru- 
soe again until the next day. 

He never said anything more about the canoe, and seemed 
to have forgotten all about it, but I determined to launch it 
just to spite him and his grandfather. "With the help of a 
long lever I pried the canoe up, and put half a dozen rollers 
under her. Then I smoothed the ground as well as I could 
between her and the beach. About half the way was level 
ground, and the rest of the way was downhill to the beach. 
This was one of the things that made it impossible to dig a 
canal, for the upper end of the canal, near where the cauoe 
lay, would have been about forty feet deep, provided we 
could have dug it. 

We had an enormous big " fish-tackle " that I had brought 
ashore from the wreck, and that was used when we fished 
the anchor. I carried this up to the canoe, and rigged it so 
that I could use a lever to haul on it with. The lever was 
my own invention, and it worked almost as well as a cap- 
stan. Of course it was very slow work, but I was able to 
move the canoe a little at a time, and after two weeks of 
working at odd times when Mr. Crusoe was asleep or busy, 
so that he did not miss me, I got the canoe up to the top of 
the high ground and was ready to let her run down to the 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 79 

beach. At first I thought I would get Mr. Crusoe to help 
me launch her, but as there was no surf, and the beach was 
fairly steep, I decided to do the work alone. Before I start- 
ed her downhill I cut a lot more of rollers, and laid them all 
the way from the canoe to the water, and I ballasted the canoe 
with about a ton of heavy stones. Then I made the tackle 
fast to her stern and to a tree, and got in and let her go. 

She bumped down the hill as fast as I would let her go, 
and shot into the water without taking a drop into her. I 
anchored her with a stone, cast off the tackle, and swam 
ashore. I felt pretty proud of what I had done ; not so 
much because it was a bit of good sailor work, but because 
I had done what old Mr. Crusoe didn't have sense enough 
to do. She was really a fine boat. She was thirty-six feet 
long and nearly three feet wide. Of course this would have 
been narrow for a Christian boat, but I meant to put an out- 
rigger on her, such as the natives use in the Sandwich Isl- 
ands, and this, I knew, would make her as stiff as a church. 
With a half deck fore and aft, a good mast and sail, and a 
steering-oar, she would be fit to cross the Pacific Ocean with 
a dozen people in her. 

After dinner, when, as a rule, a man is more reasonable 
than at other times, I took Mr. Crusoe to the beach and 



So A New Robinson Cmsoe. 

showed him the boat. Do you think he was pleased ? Not 
much. He said I had no right to launch the boat ; that his 
grandfather's memory was insulted by it, and that it was our 
duty to leave the canoe to rot on shore, and to make a smaller 
one that we could launch easily. Luckily, he couldn't help 
himself, for he couldn't get the canoe back into the woods 
where she was made, and so he had to make the best of it. 

Mr. Crusoe was not a very modest man. In fact, he 
thought he knew everything, and he tried to tell me how 
the canoe ought to be rigged. I couldn't keep him from 
talking, but I went ahead all the same and rigged the boat 
as she ought to have been rigged : with a leg-of-mutton sail 
forward and a jigger aft, just big enough to jam her on a 
wind. Mr. Crusoe wanted very much to have her fitted 
with a rudder, because his grandfather fitted a canoe with 
a rudder, though I knew just as well as if I had seen his 
canoe that no rudder ever made her steer. Of course I 
used a steering -oar instead of a rudder, and when I had 
fitted her with an outrigger, and decked her over for five 
feet from the stem and the stern, I hoisted the sails and 
took her out for a trial trip. 

She sailed beautiful, and the jigger brought her around 
every time as handy as if she had been a cat-boat. She was 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 81 

perfectly dry, and the outrigger kept her almost on an even 
keel. Mr. Crusoe watched her from the shore, and when I 
brought her in and anchored her, I could see that he was 
proud of her, although he was that obstinate that he wouldn't 
say so. In the course of the day, however, he hit on an idea 
that reconciled him to the canoe. He made believe that 
she was the second canoe we had built, and that the first 
one was still lying up in the woods. He said to me, " Fri- 
day, you have done well to build a new canoe entirely by 
yourself. She is smaller than the first one that we built 
and couldn't launch, but she is quite big enough." I under- 
stood in a minute what he meant, and agreed with him that 
the first canoe was far too big. It was a pity to see a full- 
grown man act so babyish about a thing, but it was a warn- 
ing to me never to bother my head about following the 
example of my grandfather. 

I had made up my mind, now that we had a boat, to pro- 
vision her for six weeks or so, and to try to find some civil- 
ized country or to fall in with a ship. The island was com- 
fortable enough, for we had plenty to eat and nothing to 
do, unless we wanted to do it, and for the first month or 
two I thought I would like to live there forever. But I 
was surprised to find, after a while, that I was getting tired 
6 



82 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

of it, and wanted to get back on board a deep-water ship, 
and meet somebody besides Mr. Crusoe. I had no fault to 
find with him, except that he once had a grandfather, and I 
was ready to do anything in reason to please him, but I 
didn't want to spend all my life with him and nobody else. 

I knew Mr. Crusoe would never consent to leave the isl- 
and in the canoe, but I meant to get him to come out with 
me for a little sail, and then lash him, and keep him lashed 
until we should be well out of sight of the island. 

I had hard work to get enough provisions and water 
stowed on board the canoe without attracting Mr. Crusoe's 

r O 

attention, but I was very careful about it, and I not only 
provisioned her for six weeks, but I hove overboard the 
stone ballast and ballasted her with canned provisions. I 
put two rifles and a shot-gun aboard of her, with plenty of 
ammunition, and I furnished her with blankets and every- 
thing that anybody could want at sea. She was more like 
a gentleman's pleasure yacht than anything else, and I got 
to be so fond of her that I resolved I would never go to sea 
in any other craft, but would use her for trading among the 
Pacific Islands, and be my own master instead of having a 
lot of captains and mates over me all my days. 

But when I was all ready Mr. Crusoe spoilt my plan. 



A Neiv Robinson Crtisoe. 83 

Perhaps lie suspected what I meant to do. At any rate, he 
wouldn't trust himself on board the canoe, and told me that 
he did not want me to go sailing in her for fear I might be 
blown off the island, and not be able to get back again. 

I was so disgusted that I said to myself that I had had 
enough of Mr. Crusoe, and that if he wouldn't come with 
me I would leave him. I didn't mean to abandon him for 
good and all, but I expected to fall in with a ship, and then 
the captain would steer for the island and take Mr. Crusoe 
off. He could live for a while very comfortably by him- 
self, for that was what his grandfather did before he en- 
gaged Friday to live with him. The more I thought of 
escaping alone, the more I liked the idea. I had given Mr. 
Crusoe every chance to come with me, and I was even ready 
to carry him off against his will, but when a man is as ob- 
stinate as he was, what can you do ? After all, I could get 
on alone in the boat a good deal better than I could with 
him, for he would have been sure to try to make me sail the 
boat just as his grandfather used to, and he would have been 
no end of trouble, as a landsman always is when you have got 
him in a small boat, unless he happens to be sea-sick. So, 
after thinking it all over, I resolved to start that same night, 
and get rid of the island and Mr. Crusoe at the same time. 



CHAPTER IX. 

TIIEEE was a nice westerly breeze blowing that night 
about ten o'clock when I crept out of the house without 
waking Mr. Crusoe. I had found my old flannel clothes, 
and I had a lump of soap with me, and when I got to the 
beach the first thing I did was to break out of my goat-skin 
clothes, wash the burnt cork off of myself, and put on my 
old sailor-clothes. I felt comfortable then for the first time 
in a great many weeks, and I thought what a fool I would 
be to stay on the island and wear goat-skin clothes, and have 
to listen to stories about old Mr. Crusoe. 

I had a compass and a lantern in the canoe, but as there 
was a full moon I could see to steer for the opening in the 
reef without the compass. I was glad of this, for I did not 
want to light the lantern for fear that Mr. Crusoe might 
wake up and see it. I had forgotten that I had to swim out 
to the canoe when I put my flannel clothes on, so I had to 
take them off again till I was safe on board. 

I got up my anchor and got sail on her without making 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 85 

any noise. The canoe slipped along through the water tow- 
ards the opening in the reef, and in about ten minutes after 
I started I was just abreast the south end of the island. I 
had to run close to a ridge of rock that projected out tow- 
ards the reef, and to my great surprise I saw somebody sit- 
ting on the rocks and watching the boat. From his goat- 
skin clothes I knew it was Mr. Crusoe, but he sat perfectly 
still, and never even hailed me. I could not imagine how 
he could have got to the end of the island before me, until I 
remembered that I did not look to see if he was in the house 
when I left it. He must have been out taking a walk in 
the moonlight when I started for the boat, and of course he 
knew when he saw the boat under sail that I was leaving 
him. 

I expected every minute that he would call to me to 
come back, or that perhaps he would fire at me, but he sat 
still until I was nearly outside of the reef, and then he got 
up and walked slowly away. It made me feel a little sorry 
to have him catch me in the very act of leaving him, but 
then he had only himself to blame that he was not with me. 

Beyond knowing, from the height of the sun at noon, that 
the island was a long way south of the line, I did not have 
the least idea where it was, and of course I could not tell 



86 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

what course to steer in order to reach any inhabited country. 
I did not steer for what Mr. Crusoe and I used to call the 
main-land that is, the little bit of land that we could see 
from the island for I felt sure that if it was inhabited at all, 
it was inhabited by savages. So, after I had got well clear 
of the island, I headed the boat due north, and resolved to 
keep on that course until I could find either land or a ship. 

There was a nice, steady breeze, and the boat steered so 
easily that I had hardly anything to do. Before long I was 
very sleepy, and once I nearly fell overboard as I stood at 
the steering-oar. About two o'clock, as near as I could cal- 
culate, I felt that I must turn in ; so I took in the main-sail, 
hauled the jigger-sheet flat aft, and hove the boat to. Then 
I wrapped myself up in a blanket and went to sleep. 

I woke up long after daylight, and found that there was a 
fresh westerly breeze, and that the sea was getting up. The 
canoe had drifted a long way while I was asleep, and the 
island was out of sight. It was a little lonesome all alone 
on the Pacific Ocean, and I found myself wondering how 
poor Mr. Crusoe would manage to build a fire and get his 
own breakfast. I opened a can of salmon, and with that 
and two or three biscuits I made a good breakfast. 

Allowing for the course I had steered before I went to 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 87 

sleep, and the distance the boat had drifted afterwards, I 
could tell pretty nearly in what direction the island must 
lie. I wondered if Mr. Crusoe felt as lonesome as I did, 
and I wished he was with me. He was very trying at times, 
but then he was a good man, and he had been very kind 
to rne. 

After breakfast I made sail on the boat and headed her 
for the north again. If Mr. Crusoe couldn't build a fire, he 
could have a cold breakfast, for he had at least four years' 
supply of canned things. But what would he do if he were 
to be sick? He wasn't a strong man, and I thought it was 
very likely that he might catch cold or get a fever or some- 
thing. 

I worried about Mr. Crusoe for the next hour, and then I 
said that I had done wrong to leave him, and that I would 
go back. I put the boat on the other tack, and steered for 
the island, and the moment I had done it I somehow saw 
that I had done a mean, cowardly thing in leaving Mr. Cru- 
soe, and that I couldn't feel happy again until I had told 
him so and begged his pardon. 

I sailed for three hours at the rate of about five miles an 
hour, and by my calculation I ought to have seen the island 
by that time, but it wasn't in sight. Then I began to be 



88 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

afraid that I would never find it again, and I grew more 
anxious to get back to it than I had ever been to leave it. 
Then I remembered that the canoe had no keel, and that she 
would drift a good deal faster than a civilized boat, so I 
beat up to windward nearly all the rest of the day, and by 
five o'clock I saw the cross on the top of the hill. I was 
never so glad to see anything in my life before. I said to 
myself that if I could once get ashore on that island again I 
would stand by Mr. Crusoe, no matter how long he might 
stay there. 

At sunset I was only about ten miles from the island, 
which bore due south-west from the boat, when I saw a 
squall coming down directly from the south-west. When it 
struck me I had managed to reef my sail by rolling it around 
the mast until it was about as small as the jigger; but for all 
that the squall was so fierce that it drove the canoe astern at 
a terrible rate so long as the sails were shaking, and hove 
her way over on her side when I let the sails fill. In- 
stead of passing over quickly, the squall seemed as if it had 
come to stay, and it was blowing a gale within half an hour 
after it had reached the boat. 

There was no working the canoe to windward against such 
a gale, so I just hove her to under the jigger and let her 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 89 

drift. She drifted about as fast as an ordinary boat would 
sail, and I saw that if the gale continued I should be blown 
so far off the island that I could never find ray way back. 
I made a sea-anchor out of a couple of poles that were in 
the boat, a lot of heavy tin cans, and a piece of canvas, and 
when I got this overboard it kept her from drifting quite as 
fast as she had done. However, the wind stayed in the 
south-west, and as long as it did not change I could not very 
well lose the bearing of the island. 

I knew that Mr. Crusoe would make sure that I would be 
drowned, for I never saw a landsman yet who thought that 
a small boat could live in bad weather, although there are 
lots of big iron steamers that are worse sea -boats than a 
good whale-boat or a metallic life-boat. As for my canoe, 
the only trouble with her was that she was too long, consid- 
ering that she had no sheer forward. For a while the half 
deck forward kept her pretty dry, but of course the sea 
kept getting up, and by-and-by the canoe got to dipping 
her head into every sea, and taking a lot of water into her. 

There was no help for it except to put the canoe right 
before the wind, and keep sail enough on her to keep her 
out of the way of the seas. It was ticklish work to get 
her before the wind, and I should very likely have swamped 



go A New Robinson Crusoe. 

her if I had not remembered that she was the same at both 
ends, and that instead of turning her around all I had to do 
was to take the steering-oar to the bow and make that the 
stern. So I set the jigger, cut away the sea-anchor, and got the 
steering-oar out at the bow. Away she went stern first, like 
a yacht running for the turning buoy, and she was as dry as 
a bone, barring a little spray that occasionally flew over her. 

There was no sleep for me that night, for I couldn't leave 
the steering - oar a minute or the canoe would have 
broached to, and there would have been a sudden end of 
my voyage, and Mr. Crusoe would have been left alone for 
good and all. 

However, the gale was a short one, and it blew itself out 
by morning, and then the sea went down very fast. By 
eight o'clock there was only a stiff breeze, and I was able 
to heave the boat to and get my breakfast and a little rest. 
I calculated that I must be about a hundred miles from the 
island, but the wind had backed into the north-west, and I 
could lay a straight course for home. I had never called 
the island home before, but now I was regularly homesick 
for it, and I would have given almost anything to see Mr. 
Crusoe, and tell him that I would stick by him in spite of 
his grandfather. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. gi 

I sailed all that day and the next night, and by my reck- 
oning I ought to have sighted the island by daylight, but I 
was disappointed. "Way up to windward I saw the smoke 
of a steamer, but there wasn't the least use in trying 
to beat up to her, and I didn't try it. All that day I stood 
on what I thought was the right course, but no island came 
in sight, and for fear that I would miss it in the dark, I 
hove to again for the night. 

Luckily I had the same breeze in the morning, for I 
had only one little paddle in the canoe, and I could have 
done nothing with her in a calm. I had now been steer- 
ing south-west so long that I was sure I must have passed 
the island, but whether it lay on the right hand or the left 
I could only guess. I resolved to steer south-east for six 
hours, and then, if the island did not come in sight, I in- 
tended to steer as nearly north-east as the wind would let 
me for another six hours. 

By this means I made sure that I should sight the island 
by night, but, as it turned out, I didn't. I steered south- 
west from eight till twelve, and then the wind all died out. 
There wasn't a breath, and the canoe might as well have 
been anchored, so far as I could see. 

The calm lasted all day, and I turned in at night expect- 



92 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

ing to wake up if there should be a breeze. I could not get 
asleep for a long while. I had heard of calms on the Pacific 
lasting three weeks, and I felt as if I should go stark crazy 
if I had to float in a boat in a dead calm and in hot weather 
for any such time. I felt more than ever that I had done 
wrong to leave the island, and that the chances were that, 
instead of finding a ship, and getting the captain to go and 
take Mr. Crusoe off, I might be becalmed, and drift with a 
current so far that I would completely lose my reckoning, 
and not be able to tell anybody where the island was, even 
if I should be picked up. 

At last I fell asleep, and when I woke up it was broad 
daylight, and the sun was just behind an island that was 
only fifteen or twenty miles away. At first I didn't recog- 
nize it, but before long 1 saw it was my own island. There 
was a gentle breeze, that was blowing me directly towards 
the land, and I suppose there must have been a current that 
had carried me in the same direction during the night. It 
did not take me many minutes to set both sails and to rig 
out a blanket for a spinnaker, and by noon I was at the en- 
trance in the reef, and keeping a bright lookout for Mr. 
Crusoe. 



CHAPTER X. 

THEEE was not a sign of Mr. Crusoe visible as I came up 
to the beach and landed. It was time for him to have the 
fire lighted to cook his dinner, but there was no fire. I 
went up to the hut where we slept, and found him lying on 
his bed. He must have been glad to see me, and I know 
he was very much surprised, for he evidently thought I was 
a ghost. " Is that you, Friday ?" he asked, when he opened 
his eyes and saw me standing by his bed. "When were 
you drowned?" 

"I wasn't ever drowned," said I. "I've just been out for 
a sail ; but I won't do it again." 

"Why, of course you're not a ghost," said Mr. Crusoe. 
" There never were any ghosts on this island, or my grand- 
father would have seen them. And yet strange things have 
happened very strange and awful things." 

"I'm sorry I went away, Mr. Crusoe," I said to him, "and 
I know it was mean and cowardly ; but I promise you that 
I'll never do it again, and that I'll stand by you until we 



94 <A New Robinson Crusoe. 

can botli <?o together." I was so much a^oravated to think 

o o 



of what I had done that I talked good English, and forgot 
to talk like Friday. 

But Mr. Crusoe didn't forget it. If lie had been dying 
he wouldn't have forgotten to imitate his grandfather. 
" That's all right, Friday," he replied ; " but you don't speak 
as plainly as you did, which is discouraging to me after all 
the pains I have taken to teach you." 

I was so anxious to please him that I said, " Yes, master ; 
me no speakee good," which made him brighten up a little ; 
but he soon put on a gloomy look, and turned over with his 
back to me. 

I told him I would go and start a fire and get dinner, but 
he said he didn't want anything. He wouldn't admit that 
he was sick, but anybody could have seen that is, if there 
had been anybody to see that his cheeks were thinner than 
they were before I went away, and his eyes brighter. I 
supposed that he had worried himself sick about me, but I 
afterwards found out that he hadn't worried at all. At 
least he said so one day when we were talking it over. But 
then I didn't altogether believe him, for I know that if I 
had gone off and left myself all alone on a desert island, I 
should have missed myself and worried about it dreadfully. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 95 

I cooked a good dinner, and as Mr. Crusoe wouldn't eat 
his share, I had to eat it to keep it from being wasted. He 
was always putting extra work on me. I didn't feel so very 
well that afternoon, and had fallen asleep and dreamed that 
a big brass elephant was sitting in an arm-chair on my 
stomach, and saying that I must get up and eat a barrel of 
dry Indian meal, or he would report me to the captain, 
when Mr. Crusoe woke me up by shaking me, and then put 
his hand over my mouth as a hint for me to keep quiet. 

" I am going to tell you something," he said, " that will 
probably turn your hair gray. It has turned mine perfect- 
ly white" which wasn't true, for his hair was the same 
color it had always been. " Friday," he continued, " there 
is somebody on the island." 

" Of course there is," said I. " There's you and me, and 
the goats and the rest of the animals." 

" There is some one else," Mr. Crusoe replied, looking 
more solemn than ever. " Friday, yesterday I saw a footstep 
on the beach." 

" Likely enough," I said ; " you and I walk on the beach 
every day, and of course we leave footprints." 

" Friday," lie answered, " this was on the beach on the 
other side of the island, where we never go." 



g6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

" I was there," said I, " the day before I went out sail- 
ing." 

" Friday," he continued, shaking his finger at me, " is 
your foot small ?" 

" Well, not so very ; I can wear No. 10 shoes, though." 

" Are your shoes narrow, with a little heel in the middle 
of each one ?" 

" Not much," said I ; " but then what's the use of talking 
about shoes when I haven't worn any since I've been here." 

" Then, you see," said Mr. Crusoe, " that you couldn't 
have made the print of a shoe on the beach." 

" But you might have made it," I answered ; " you wear 
shoes." 

" Friday, now steady yourself and don't be frightened. 
Be calm, like me. That footprint, Friday, was made by a 
woman's shoe." 

" Then there was a woman in it," I exclaimed. " Shoes 
don't walk around by themselves, that ever I heard of." 

"Don't talk rubbish," cried Mr. Crusoe, getting angry. 
" There couldn't be a woman here at least a white woman ; 
such a thing was never heard of. No ; that shoe was worn 
by a cannibal, and I feel perfectly sure that the cannibals 
come to this island and have their horrid feasts here." 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 97 

I didn't believe that any heathen cannibal could have a foot 
small enough to get into a lady's shoe, but there was no use 
in saying so to Mr. Crusoe, for he had made up his mind 
about it, and you couldn't argue with him. My own idea 
was that he had seen one of his own footprints that had 
been partly washed away by the rain, and had mistaken it 
for a woman's ; for it was all nonsense to suppose that any 
woman would come ashore just to make the print of her 
foot on the sand, and then go away again. 

The next morning Mr. Crusoe had brightened up a little, 
and I tried to convince him that there was nothing to worry 
about. I told him that in the first place there never had 
been any woman on the island, and that in the next place, 
even if there had been, she couldn't do us any harm. I 
never saw a woman that was dangerous yet, except my uncle 
Peter's wife, and she wasn't dangerous unless she had a poker 
or a rolling-pin in her hand, and there wasn't a poker or a 
rolling-pin on the whole island for any woman to lay hold of. 

Mr. Crusoe said that one woman wasn't generally so very 
dangerous, but that if the woman was a cannibal, and had a 
gang of other cannibals with her, all armed with war clubs 
and wooden swords, and awfully hungry, we were liable to 
be attacked any minute, and killed and roasted. He advised 
7 



98 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

me to eat lots of wild sorrel, for when cows eat wild sorrel 
it spoils their milk, and perhaps if we did the same thing it 
would give us a taste that the cannibals wouldn't like. He 
didn't seem to remember that the cannibals couldn't find out 
how we tasted until after they had killed and cooked us ; 
and then, even if they found that they couldn't eat us, it 
wouldn't be much comfort to us. I said to Mr. Crusoe that 
we might fill ourselves full of poison, and have the fun of 
seeing the cannibals drop down dead as soon as they began 
to eat us, but that I couldn't see any sense in his plan of eat- 
ing wild sorrel. 

I felt so sure that Mr. Crusoe was mistaken about the foot- 
print that I wanted him to come with me and have another 
look at it. He didn't want to go, for he said it was an awful 
sight, and that when he saw it he had run as fast as he could 
to the house, and fastened himself in, and got his guns ready ; 
for that was what his grandfather did when he found a foot- 
print on the sand without any owner. 

" What did your grandfather's Friday say about the foot- 
print ?" I asked. 

"Say? He said nothing," replied Mr. Crusoe. "How 
could he say anything when he never came to the island 
until months after my grandfather saw the footprint ?" 



o 
o 

H 



3 

a 

02 
O 



-* 

r 




A New Robinson Crusoe. 99 

" Then how did it happen that you didn't see the foot- 
print before you made a Friday of me ? There is something 
wrong about that." 

I only said this just to aggravate Mr. Crusoe a little, but 
I was sorry afterwards, for it made him miserable. You see 
he couldn't find any way out of it, and he felt that he 
hadn't done precisely as his grandfather did, and so he 
wrung his hands and said he was a miserable sinner. 

After coaxing him a long while I got him to agree to 
come with me and look at the footprint ; but first he made 
me hunt up my goat-skin clothes and get into them. They 
felt more uncomfortable than ever, for I had been enjoying 
a blue flannel shirt and real Christian trousers while I was 
away in the canoe, and I could hardly walk when I got into 
the goat-skins. I have always thought that making me wear 
goat-skins was the meanest thing Mr. Crusoe did all the time 
I was with him ; but then I suppose the poor man thought 
he was doing right. 

When we came to the beach I saw the footprint. There 
couldn't be any doubt about it. The footprint was made 
by a lady's shoe, and she must have been one of the very 
finest of ladies, for her shoe had such a heel that she couldn't 
possibly have walked half a mile without being lame. 



ioo A New Robinson Crusoe. 

" There," said Mr. Crusoe, " will you now dare to say 
that I made that footprint ?" 

" Well," I said, " I don't believe you did ; and what's 
more, I never knew you to have hair-pins in your hair, 
either." 

" What do you mean ?" asked he. 

" I mean that this thing that I have just picked up is a 
hair-pin, and it must have been dropped by the woman who 
made the footprint." 

Mr. Crusoe looked at the hair-pin and shook all over. 

" We are done for now !" he exclaimed. 

" What do you mean by that ?" I asked. 

" Why, that the cannibals have been here. Don't you 
know how they wear their hair ? Didn't you ever see pict- 
ures of them with their hair twisted into a knot on the top 
of their heads? They couldn't make their hair stay up 
without hair-pins, and that hair-pin that you have found be- 
longed to a cannibal. We shall be killed and eaten before 
we are a month older." 

" But your grandfather wasn't killed, was he ?" I asked. 

" That's so ; he wasn't," replied Mr. Crusoe. " Perhaps 
we can kill the cannibals, just as he did." 

I encouraged him to believe that we were a match for all 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 101 

the cannibals in the Pacific, and so I got him cheered up 
enough to be willing to walk along the beach with me, and 
see if we could find anything beside the hair-pin and the 
footprint. 

Just around a little rocky point we found another bit of 
beach, and a place where there had been a fire. All around 
the place there were scattered empty tin cans and pieces of 
broken china. I picked up some of the cans and showed 
them to Mr. Crusoe. One was labelled " Boston Baked 
Beans," and another " Fresh Peaches," and another " Oxtail 
Soup." 

Mr. Crusoe looked as if he was going to faint away. 
"Now," he said, "perhaps you will believe that the canni- 
bals have been here. This is the very spot where they held 
their horrible feasts. The sight of that loathsome can of 
baked beans turns my stomach. If the wretches come here 
again we must kill every one of them. It will be a noble 
deed. We must let no guilty man escape." 

" But, Mr. Crusoe," said I, " it isn't wrong to eat baked 
beans, that ever I heard of. A man who eats baked beans 
isn't a cannibal, for I was shipmates once with a chap from 
Boston, and he told me that nobody in Boston ever had 
anything to eat except baked beans. And I know the Bos- 



IO2 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

ton people are not cannibals, for the M'Intyres used to live 
there, and they are as decent people as ever lived." 

" Can't a Frenchman or a Spaniard eat baked beans ?" 
asked Mr. Crusoe. " And when they do eat baked beans, is 
that any proof that they are not Frenchmen or Spaniards ?" 

" Well, I don't suppose it is." 

" These cannibals," continued Mr. Crusoe, " naturally like 
a few vegetables with their meat. They probably captured 
a Boston whaler, and stole the peaches and baked beans 
from her, and brought them here and ate them with the 
crew I mean at the same time that they ate the crew. 
They were the very worst kind of cannibals. It's bad 
enough for a man to be a cannibal and to eat his fellow- 
man, but when he deliberately washes him down with baked 
beans and fresh peaches it shows a cold-blooded deliberation 
that is unspeakably revolting. Never let me hear you try- 
ing to defend cannibals again, or I shall think that you have 
not yet got over your hankering after forbidden meat. I 
recollect that it was some time before my grandfather could 
get his man Friday to see the wickedness of cannibalism." 

It was no use to say anything more to Mr. Crusoe, for he 
was so prejudiced that nobody could argue with him. He 
made me go back to the house for a shovel, and then he 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 103 

insisted that I should bury all the cans and the other relics 
of the " horrid orgies," as he called them, in the sand. 

Now I knew well enough what had really happened. 
The footprint, the hair-pin, the empty cans, and the ashes 
meant that there had been a picnic ; and as there was no 
sign of lemon-peel, it had probably been a Sunday-school 
picnic, with lots of Sunday-school picnic lemonade. Any 
boy with sense enough to put a dog and a string and a tin 
can together would have known what had happened. But 
Mr. Crusoe had got the idea of cannibals into his head, and 
you couldn't have hoisted it out with a steam winch. All 
the way home he groaned and talked about the awful wick- 
edness of the cannibals, and of the great danger we were in. 
" We shall be roasted and eaten with baked beans," he kept 
saying. " Think of it, Friday, my poor follower with 
baked beans !" 

I told him that I would just as soon be eaten with baked 
beans as without them ; but he only said that I was a poor, 
ignorant savage, and that I didn't even know enough to 
know that I wouldn't agree with the cannibals, and that 
they would probably have the cholera after eating me. 

When we got back to the house his courage came back a 
little, and he was full of the idea of killing all the cannibals 



IO4 ^ New Robinson Crusoe. 

the next time they landed on the island. He wanted to 
make some dynamite, but he couldn't find the materials in 
the medicine-chest. So he ordered me to load all the guns, 
and be ready to hide behind the bushes, and fire on the can- 
nibals while they were eating their dinner. 

I knew he was just capable of shooting down a whole 
Sunday-school, superintendent and all, under the pretence 
that they were cannibals ; but I wasn't going to help him 
in any such nonsense, so I loaded all the guns with nothing 
but powder except the Remington rifles, which were load- 
ed with copper cartridges. I never went to Sunday-school 
myself, but I think Sunday-schools are good things, and I 
don't believe in shooting them. 



CHAPTER XL 

ONE morning not long after we had found the footprint, 
I woke up smelling smoke. The house was full of smoke 
that blew in through the door, and I thought that the woods 
must be on fire. I jumped up, and after feeling in Mr. 
Crusoe's bunk to see if he was there, and finding that he 
was not, I rushed out to get a breath of air. 

Mr. Crusoe was standing close to a big bonfire, and stirring 
it up with a long pole to make it blaze. The bonfire was 
made of clothes, and my best flannel shirt and trousers were 
blazing on the top of it. A little ways off was a pile of 
broken glass and crockery, so big that I should never have 
thought that we had crockery enough to make such a pile. 

Mr. Crusoe had got up early, and broken every bit of 
glass and crockery that we owned except a few bottles, and 
he had made a bonfire of every stitch of our clothes except 
the goat-skins. It was too late to save anything, and even 
if it hadn't been too late I couldn't have interfered very 
well, for Mr. Crusoe had his revolver in his belt, and I be- 



io6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

lieve he would have shot me in a minute if I had tried to 
interfere with him. 

I sat down on a log without saying anything, and watched 
the fire burn. Mr. Crusoe kept getting his eyes full of 
smoke, and nearly choked to death two or three times, but 
I could see that he was enjoying himself for all that. Af- 
ter a while he thought that the fire would burn well enough 
without any more help, so he came and sat down. He didn't 
very often sit down, because it was hard work to make his 
goat-skin trousers bend, so I knew that he must mean to be 
particularly friendly to me, otherwise he would not have sat 
down by me. 

" You see, Friday," he remarked, " we don't need any 
civilized clothes. My grandfather lived for years without 
them, and found that goat-skin was much more healthy and 
stylish than flannel or cotton; so I thought I would just 
burn up all that rubbish and get rid of it," 

" So I see," said I. 

".Then my grandfather made his own dishes out of clay, 
and we ought to do the same. We are getting lazy, living 
as we do in the lap of luxury, and so long as we have ev- 
erything we want, we shall never improve ourselves by in- 
venting new things to supply our necessities. You see, 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 107 

Friday, that I was quite right in breaking the china, don't 
you ?" 

Of course I didn't venture to say that I didn't see, so I 
just muttered something that he didn't understand, though 
it seemed to satisfy him. 

"Now," said he, getting on his feet with a good deal of 
difficulty, because his stiff trousers tried their best to throw 
him down, "we'll have breakfast, for I'm awfully hungry." 

I made the coffee, and opened a can of salmon, but when 
I told Mr. Crusoe that breakfast was ready, and he came up 
and said, " Pour me a cup of coffee, like a good fellow," I 
asked him where his coffee-cup was. 

I knew very well that he had broken all the cups, but I 
wanted to see what he would do. 

Mr. Crusoe looked disappointed and puzzled, for I could 
see he was trying to think of something that he could use 
for a cup, but he didn't succeed. " Never mind," he said, 
presently ; " give me the coffee-pot and I'll drink out of the 
spout." But after he had tried this, and burnt his tongue, 
and nearly dropped the coffee-pot, he gave it up, and went 
without his coffee. 

He suffered a good deal trying to eat his salmon without 
a plate. He had to eat it out of the can, and I could see that 



loS A New Robinson Crusoe. 

he didn't like it because I did the same ; but he wasn't quite 
mean enough to tell me that I couldn't have any salmon. 
When I was ready for my coffee I hunted up an empty peach 
can and used it for a cup. Mr. Crusoe thought that this was 
a fine idea, and so he found an empty can arid poured him- 
self a cup of coffee. But the ragged edge of the can cut his 
tongue and caught in his beard, and he spilled his coffee all 
over his legs, and then marched into the house in a rage. 

I didn't care so very much about the broken crockery, but 
it did amuse me to see Mr. Crusoe suffering from his own 
foolishness. He had spoiled his own breakfast, and I knew 
that he would find it harder yet to eat his dinner without 
any dishes. 

After Mr. Crusoe had got over being angry about his cof- 
fee, he told me that we must make some dishes at once. We 
went down to the edge of the creek, where there was a bed 
of clay, and Mr. Crusoe told me to make a few platters, and 
said that he would make a pot. 

We worked over those dishes for the rest of the day, and 
Mr. Crusoe got himself all covered with clay. The gnats and 
flies kept biting him on the face, and whenever he slapped 
his face he pasted a lot of clay over it. The clay would 
stick to his face and hair as firm as anybody could have 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 109 

wanted it to, but we could not make our dishes stick togeth- 
er. Mr. Crusoe's pot kept falling to pieces as fast as he tried 
to make it ; and though I once or twice got a plate to stick 
together while it was wet, it would crack and crumble as 
soon as the sun began to dry it. 

But Mr. Crusoe wasn't discouraged. He said that all the 
dishes wanted was to be baked in a fire. He gave up mak- 
ing a pot for that day, but he managed to make two cups, 
and then we built a fire and put the cups and a plate that I 
had made on to bake. They crumbled in the fire quicker 
than they did in the sun, and we had to give it up and eat 
our supper out of old tin cans. 

Mr. Crusoe must have felt a little ashamed of having bro- 
ken up the crockery, for he stuck to making dishes out of 
clay almost as well as the clay stuck to him. He remem- 
bered that his grandfather glazed his dishes with lead, and 
so he tried to do the same thing. But he didn't know how 
to glaze dishes any more than I did, and the only thing he 
succeeded in doing was to burn himself all over with melted 
lead. I gave the whole thing up long before he did, and told 
him that I would wait till he found out how to make clay 
dishes before I would try it again. He kept at work a day 
after this, but finally he had to give it up. 



no A New Robinson Crusoe, 

Then he had another bright idea, and that was to make 
glass dishes out of sand. He said that sand was about the 
same thing as glass, and that we could melt sand and pour 
it into moulds, and have elegant glass dishes. But he could 
never get his fire hot enough to melt the sand. Besides, I 
knew very well that sand wasn't glass, for there never were 
broken windows and tumblers enough in the whole world 
to make as much sand as there was on the island. 

We had rather hard work to get along with no crockery 
except tin cans. We could use them well enough for cups 
and things to hold soup, but we couldn't cut up meat on 
the bottom of a tin can as if it was a plate. I made some 
plates by splitting the tin cans and hammering the pieces 
out flat, but Mr. Crusoe hated to use them, because he said 
that he didn't like the taste of tin, and because every now 
and then his dinner would slide off his tin plate into his 
lap. 

After he had decided that he couldn't make clay or glass 
dishes, he gathered together some pieces of broken crockery 
and tried to stick them together with some glue that was in 
the ship's stores ; but he had broken the crockery into such 
little pieces that he could only find a very few that were 
large enough to stick together. And then the glue wouldn't 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 1 1 1 

hold the pieces together long enough for him to eat off of 
his mended plate, so he had to give this plan up too. 

Mr. Crusoe became very much discouraged about his 
crockery, and I am sure that he was awfully sorry that he 
had broken it all up. When he thought how comfortable 
he used to be with good clothes to wear and nice crockery, 
it stands to reason that he must have wished that he hadn't 
been so foolish as to destroy them all. But he wasn't the 
kind of man to admit anything of the kind. All he did was 
to undress and go to bed, and have me bring his meals to 
him. He said he was sick, and perhaps he thought he was, 
but it is my opinion that he stayed in bed because he was 
sick of wearing goat-skin clothes. His goat-skin trousers 
had worn all the skin off of his knees, but he had nothing 
else to put on, and had either to go to bed or to stand the 
pain of the trousers. 

While he was in bed I made myself some very decent 
plates and cups out of wood, but I did not mention it to 
Mr. Crusoe for fear that he would burn them up on the pre- 
tence that his grandfather never made any wooden dishes. 
I don't believe he ever did, and I am sure he never made 
any clay dishes either. Crockery is white, or else it has fig- 
ures painted on it with blue paint portraits of Chinamen, 



ii2 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

and bridges, and ponds full of fish and such. How could 
anybody make such crockery out of nasty blue clay? Of 
course I didn't tell Mr. Crusoe that his grandfather never 
made crockery, but I wasn't a bit taken in by that story, 
and I knew when we started to make crockery out of clay 
that it couldn't be done. 

All this time, whether he was breaking crockery, or cov- 
ering himself with clay, or lying in bed, Mr. Crusoe was 
worrying about the cannibals. He made me go down every 
morning to the beach on the other side of the island, where 
we had found the footprint, to see if the cannibals had 
lauded again. I was very willing to go, for I hoped to meet 
a Sunday-school picnic, and get the teachers to take me and 
Mr. Crusoe to some civilized country with them. 

Now that I had found out that Sunday-school picnics 
came to our island, I knew we must be very near to some 
civilized place, and that the land which we could see at a 
great distance, and that Mr. Crusoe called the main-land, and 
pretended that it was inhabited by cannibals and a lot of 
Spanish prisoners, was probably the coast of Australia or 
some such place where there are white people. 

It would have been easy enough for us to run across to 
the land with the canoe, but Mr. Crusoe, of course, would 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 1 1 3 

not listen to it because his grandfather had never done it. 
According to his account the old man had built a splendid 
boat as big as a ship's long-boat, and he was able to sail it 
anywhere, but for all that he stayed on the island and never 
tried to get away. I wasn't imposed on by any such non- 
sense. Old Mr. Crusoe was not a sailorman, and he couldn't 
have built a decent boat if he had tried. Most likely he 
knocked together a raft and called it a boat. 

Sometimes when I looked at Mr. Crusoe I felt almost 
like leaving him again, he was so aggravating ; but I had 
given my word that I wouldn't leave him, and then, with 
all his faults, he had been kind to me. Besides, the poor 
man was looking more like a sick man than he had ever 
looked before. He stayed in bed for about a week after he 
had broken the crockery, and when he got up, and had me 
help him build his goat-skin clothes around him again, he 
was so thin and weak that I was glad the trousers were 
stiff enough to hold him up in case he should have fainted 
away. 

He lost his appetite almost entirely after he had lost his 

dishes, and he hardly ate enough to keep him alive. Then 

he couldn't sleep at night, and after lying three or four 

hours in bed he would get up and wrap a blanket around 

8 



H4 -^ New Robinson Crusoe. 

him, and walk up and down the beach. One night he 
walked into an old goat that was troubled, like him, with 
want of sleep, and the goat either didn't know him in the 
blanket, or else he wanted a little exercise to warm himself, 
and the consequence was that by the time Mr. Crusoe's yells 
had waked me up he had been knocked over a good deal of 
the island, and would probably have been killed if I hadn't 
driven the goat away with a club. 



CHAPTER XII. 

IT was at least a month after we had seen the footprint, 
and Mr. Crusoe had begun to forget it, or, at any rate, to 
stop talking about it, when one day he went out for a walk, 
and came back looking as white as a new cotton maintop sail. 

" Don't be frightened, Friday," he said to me, almost in a 
whisper, "but keep cool. The. cannibals have come at last." 

" Where are they ?" said I. 

" Just where they always land on the beach, where they 
held their horrid orgies the last time they were here." 

" Are there many of them ?" I asked. 

" There's a whole big canoe full at least twenty -five or 
thirty, and they've kindled a fire and are getting ready for 
their revolting feast." 

" Do they look hungry ?" 

" Very hungry indeed," replied Mr. Crusoe. " The men 
are, most all of them, tall and thin, as if they hadn't been 
fed for a week." 

" Are they armed ?" 



1 1 6 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

" Of course they are. Did you ever know cannibals to. 
go on an excursion without their arms? They have clubs 
and wooden swords, and bows and arrows and most likely 
the arrows are poisoned. We must fight and kill them, or 
they will kill us." 

Now I didn't believe that the people who had landed on 
the island were cannibals, but it didn't do to tell Mr. Crusoe 
so. He was very much excited, and his eyes were wilder 
than I had ever seen them before. I was very much afraid 
that he would try to fight the people before I could make 
him understand the difference between cannibals and a Sun- 
day-school picnic. There's a great deal of difference be- 
tween them, for the picnic has, as a general rule, nothing 
but cold victuals and lemonade. 

Mr. Crusoe made me collect all the guns together, and he 
examined them to see if they were loaded. All but the 
breech-loading rifles were loaded with j>owder only, for I 
had loaded them when he first told me about the footprint, 
and I had been very careful not to put any bullets or shot 
in them. But the breech-loaders and the pistols were made 
for copper cartridges, and I couldn't prevent Mr. Crusoe 
from loading these himself. 

Then Mr. Crusoe buckled two sword-bayonets around his 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 117 

waist, and put two big knives and eight revolvers in his 
belt. He made me carry the same load, besides a bag slung 
over one shoulder and filled with ammunition. Each of us 
carried four guns on each shoulder, and with this nice little 
load we started for the beach, where the cannibals were get- 
ting ready for dinner. 

Anybody who has ever tried to carry a lot of oars on his 
shoulder without first lashing them together, knows how 
they will separate and spread out like a fan. Mr. Crusoe's 
guns did the same thing. The two that were nearest to his 
head kept swinging up against his ears, and banging pretty 
hard against his head, and the others spread out so that he 
could not hold them. This worried him so much that he 
got angry, and threw the whole lot down on the ground. 



One of the guns went off, and a bullet hit Mr. Crusoe in the 
calf of the leg. He was more frightened than hurt, and af- 
ter I had tied his leg up he found that he could limp with- 
out hurting himself very much. I had lashed my guns to- 
gether, so that I could carry them easily enough, and I passed 
a lashing around his so that he could put them all on one 
shoulder. They were awfully heavy, but he staggered along 
until we got where we could see the cannibals through the 
bushes without their seeing us. 



1 1 8 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

* 

There were about twenty men and eight or nine women 
on the beach, and a nice little cutter yacht was lying at 
anchor near the shore. The people were all white, except 
two negro servants, and we were near enough to hear them 
talk, and know that they were English. They had started a 
big fire, and while two of them were cooking, the rest were 
standing about and talking. 

Mr. Crusoe was terribly excited. He called the visitors 
"cannibals of the deepest dye," and said that there were 
three or four prisoners on the yacht who would be brought 
ashore and killed as soon as the fire was ready. He laid all 
the guns side by side, and told me that as soon as we had 
fired them all we would rush out with our pistols and kill 
all the cannibals that might be left alive. 

" I will shoot at the men on the right-hand side of the 
fire," said Mr. Crusoe, "and you, Friday, will shoot at those 

j t/ / / / 

on the left. We must be sure and kill every man we aim 
at, and we must treat the women just like the men, for they 
are just as strong and blood-thirsty. We'll wait till they get 
pretty close together, and then we'll begin." 

I was dreadfully afraid that he would really shoot and kill 
somebody, and then that the rest of the picnickers would 
kill him before I could explain. I thought I would try once 



w 

H 



f 
f 



w 
a 

<l 

M 
SC 
M 

H 

O 

02 



td 
> 
tr 1 

CD 



B 
ti 



u 
Kl 

ft 




A New Robinson Crusoe. 119 

more to make him listen to reason before seizing him and 
taking his gun away from him. So I said, " Mr. Crusoe, we 
are perfectly certain to be killed and eaten if we fire at the 
cannibals now." 

"Why so?" he asked. 

" Because," I said, " now that I remember it, I forgot to 
put any bullets in the guns, and we have nothing to defend 
ourselves with except the two Remington rifles and the 
pistols." 

He looked awfully angry, and said that he believed that I 
had done it on purpose, and that I still had a hankering for 
human flesh, and wanted to join the cannibals. But I didn't 
pay any attention to what he said, and told him that we 
ought to go back to the house and finish loading our guns. 

This struck him as being a sensible idea ; but he said that 
we would leave all the guns except the two rifles among the 
trees, and would go back and fetch the bullets, and load 
them where we were. I agreed to hide the guns where the 
cannibals couldn't find them, and I did it by dropping them 
into a pool of water, and then we started to go back to the 
house. 

By the time we reached the house Mr. Crusoe's leg was 
hurting him so badly that he could hardly manage to walk, 



I2O A New Robinson Crusoe. 

and I began to hope that he would give up the idea of going 
back to fight the cannibals ; but no sooner had we got inside 
the house, and put up the bars against the door, so as to pre- 
vent the cannibals from coming in, than Mr. Crusoe picked 
up a bit of rope and jumped on me. He wasn't a strong 
man naturally, but he had suddenly got so strong that I 
couldn't do anything with him without hurting him, and 
that I was resolved not to do. In about a minute he had 
me tied hand and foot, and then he filled his pockets with 
bullets and got ready to go and fight all by himself. 

Now Mr. Crusoe was a landsman, and of course he couldn't 
make a knot that was worth anything. I lay perfectly still, 
to see what he was going to do, but I believed all the time 
that I could easily get my hands free. 

Presently Mr. Crusoe came and stood over me with one 
of his pistols in his hand. He said that he thought he ought 
to kill me to keep me from joining the cannibals, but on 
the whole he had decided to let me live until after he had 
either driven the cannibals away or had been killed himself. 
He was very sorry, so he said, to find that I could not be 
trusted, but he supposed that I had been a cannibal so long 
that I really could not get over my depraved taste. Then 
he shouldered both of the rifles and started for the beach. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 121 

As soon as he was gone I tried to get my hands loose, but 
found that I couldn't do it. Some way or other Mr. Crusoe 
had contrived to tie a knot that wouldn't slip. After get- 
ting my wrists sore by trying to pull them out of the lash- 
ing, I resolved to roll over and over till I could reach the 
place where we had built the fire for breakfast, and see if I 
could find a live coal, and set the lashing on fire with it. 
But I remembered that I had eight revolvers in my belt, and 
I didn't dare to roll on them for fear they would go off. 

Then I thought that if I could turn over on my face, and 
manage to get up on my knees, I could shuffle over to the 
fireplace. I rolled over gently, though the revolvers cut 
into my side a good deal, and then scrambled on to my 
knees ; but as soon as I tried to move away from the place 
where Mr. Crusoe had left me, I found that he had made the 
end of the rope that was around my ankles fast to one of 
the timbers of the house, and I couldn't possibly get at it to 
unfasten it. 

I tried in every way I could think of to get loose, but I 
couldn't do it. My hands were tied together so closely that 
I couldn't use them to loosen the rope around my feet ; and 
I could not get out my knife, for it was on my left side out 
of reach. After twisting myself into all sorts of knots, and 



122 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

wearing all the skin off of my wrists and ankles, I finally 
gave it up, and lay down on my back to rest. 

1 waited a long while to hear the sound of Mr. Crusoe's 
rifle, but as I didn't hear it, I made up my mind that he had 
given up the idea of fighting, or that perhaps the visitors 
had caught him, and convinced him that they were not 
cannibals. But if they had done that they certainly would 
have come up to the house to find me ; so I waited, expect- 
ing every minute to see them come in the door. 

You may not believe it, but I actually fell asleep while I 
was lying there on the floor, and when I woke up the sun 
was shining straight in the door, as it always did just before 
sunset. I forgot about being tied, and tried to jump up in 
a hurry, but I remembered what was the matter when the 
rope tripped me up, and I fell with my head against the 
side of the house. 

I was so tired of being a prisoner that I was a little reck- 
less, and I managed to pull a pistol out of my belt and be- 
gan firing at the rope that tied my feet to the timbers of 
the house. I fired five times, and then, by great good-luck, 
I happened to hit the rope, and to cut it so nearly in two 
that I was able to break it. 

I could now roll all around the house if I wanted to, but 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 123 

% 

my hands and feet were still tied fast together. The fire 
was out by this time, I was very sure, but I knew where 
there was a box of matches stuck between two planks, about 
a foot above the floor, and I rolled over towards them, taking 
the chances that the pistols would go off. The pistols hurt 
me a good deal as I rolled over on them, but I reached the 
match-box at last, and found it empty. 

Then I was discouraged, for I felt sure that something 
had happened to Mr. Crusoe, and there I was, a prisoner, 
and unable to help him. I had tried every way I could 
think of to get rid of the ropes, but had failed, and besides 
I was very tired, and my wrists were very raw. 

I thought the fire must be out, but still I resolved to get 
over to it and see if I could find a live coal. I rolled over 
about twenty times before I reached the place where we 
always made the fire, and you ought to have seen the 
black-and-blue places that the pistols made all around my 
waist. 

I stirred up the ashes for a while, and couldn't find a live 
coal till, all of a sudden, I found the hair on the outside of 
my goat-skin trousers was on fire. I had rolled directly on 
to a piece of wood that was still burning, and for once I 
was glad that I had on goat-skin trousers that couldn't burn, 



124 -A New Robinson Crusoe. 

instead of cotton or linen trousers that would have blazed 
up and roasted me. 

It did not take me very long to find the live coal and to 
press the rope that was around my hands close against it, 
and in the course of ten minutes or so the rope was burned 
through, and my hands were loose. Then I got out my 
knife, and cut away the rope that held my feet, and I was 
free again. I had a few little burns on my hands, but I 
have often wondered since then how it happened that some 
one of the pistols didn't happen to get heated against 
a hot coal and go off, and shoot three or four bullets 
through me. 

It was now just about sunset, and in the latitude where 
we were it used to grow dark almost as soon as the sun went 
clown. I started on a run towards the beach to find Mr. 
Crusoe, and presently I found him lying as if he was dead 
on the ground. 

He had plainly fallen down, for his rifles were scattered 
all around just where he had dropped them. He was just 
as if he was dead, and his face was as white as a sheet. He 
was warm, however, and I did not think he was dead ; so I 
ran back to the house and got some brandy, and poured a 
little of it not more than half a tumblerful down his 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 125 

. throat. This revived him, and he opened his eyes and 
managed to say that he rather thought he had been a little 
faint. 

Seeing that he was alive, I left him for a few minutes 
while I hurried down to the beach to see if the picnickers 
were there, intending to ask them to come and help me ; but 
they had been gone a long time, for their boat was out of 
eight. So I went back to Mr. Crusoe, and asked him if he 
thought he could walk to the house. 

He said he thought he could, but that he would like to 
have me look at his leg first, for he believed it had been 
bleeding again. I took out my knife and contrived, after 
a lot of hard work, to cut a piece out of his trousers just 
where the bullet had entered, and I found that the poor man 
had bled nearly to death. This time I tied up his leg so 
tight that it couldn't bleed any more, and then I picked Mr. 
Crusoe up and carried him home. He weighed very little, 
but he kept telling me that I was not strong enough to carry 
him, and that I must let him walk or I would burst a blood- 
vessel. 

I laid him on his bed and prized his goat-skin clothes off, 
and covered him up with blankets, for luckily he had had 
sense enough not to burn up our bedclothes. Then I cooked 



126 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

him a good hot supper, and before very long he was asleep. 
But he kept moaning and tossing in his sleep, and I could 
tell by the feeling of his hands that he had a fever. So I 
sat by the side of him all night, which was easy enough, 
since I must have slept two or three hours that afternoon. 






CHAPTER XIII. 

ME. CRUSOE dropped asleep near daylight, and when he 
woke up he was rational that is, for him. He had some 
fever, and was very weak, and said that he must have some 
medicine. 

We had the ship's medicine-chest, and I went to it and 
got some salts for him, for that is about the only medicine 
sailors ever get, but Mr. Crusoe wouldn't take it. He said 
he should do just as the grandfather did when he had a 
fever or something else ; so he sent me for some tobacco 
and a bottle of rum. He put the tobacco in a tin can and 
poured a pint of rum over it, and told me to warm it on the 
fire, and to stir it up every now and then. When it was 
good and hot Mr. Crusoe drank about half a tumblerful of it, 
and I expected to see him die within the next ten minutes. 

He didn't die, however, but he was the sickest man you 
ever saw. I took the tobacco away from him, for fear he 
would take some more of it and finish himself, but he was 
too sick to do anything of the kind. 

That night he was worse than ever, and I had to hold 



128 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

him nearly all the time to keep him from getting up and 
going out to shoot cannibals. 

Towards morning Mr. Crusoe was more quiet, and I acci- 
dentally fell asleep, and when I woke up he was gone. It 
gave me a terrible fright, and I rushed out to look for him. 
His gun was gone, so that I knew that he had taken it with 
him ; and I thought that he had probably gone to look for 
cannibals, and that I would find him near the place where 
we had seen the picnickers. 

I did not come across him on the way to the beach, and 
when I reached there he was not in sight. I went to look 
at the remains of the fire where the picnickers had been 
cooking, and I was looking on the sand to see if they had 
dropped anything, when I heard a rifle-shot, and the bullet 
came whizzing by my ear. In a few seconds another bullet 
came along ; and as I knew that Mr. Crusoe must be firing, 
and that he was a pretty good shot, I dropped on the sand 
and pretended to be dead. 

Presently he came up with his rifle and stood close to me, 
looking at me. I still pretended to be dead, but he didn't 
seem to be quite sure about it, for he put his rifle close 
against my ear, and would have blown my brains out if I 
hadn't caught it in my hand and jumped up. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 129 

As soon as he saw I was alive lie tried his best to get the 
gun away from me, and when he found that he could not do 
it, he dropped the gun and tried to draw a revolver from his 
belt ; but I was too quick for him, and threw him down and 
tied his arms with his own belt. 

Mr. Crusoe struggled hard and talked at the top of his 
voice, but I could not understand a word he said, any more 
than if he had been talking Chinese. He was as crazy as he 
could be, and I am sure that he believed me to be a canni- 
bal, or else he would not have shot at me. 

I tried to coax him to get up and walk home, but he 
would not do it, so I had to tie his feet together and hoist 
him on my back and carry him home. He kept on raving 
all the time, and when I got him home I had to lash him in 
my bunk. 

I saw at once that he was so sick that he needed some- 
thing more powerful than salts, and of course I wouldn't 
give him any of his dreadful tobacco-tea. All the medicines 
in the medicine-chest had the right doses marked on them, 
so that the captain couldn't make any mistake ill giving 
them to the men. For instance, one bottle was marked, 
" Dose, one teaspoonf ul," and another, " Dose, five drops." 
The powders were all marked after the same fashion, so I 

9 



130 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

was sure that I couldn't serve out a dose that would kill 
Mr. Crusoe. 

As I didn't know what medicine would suit his case best, 
I resolved to begin and give him a dose of everything in 
the chest until I could hit on the right tiling. Of course I 

o o 

couldn't tell whether he needed bottled medicine or pow- 
ders, so I began by giving him a dose out of bottle No. 1, 
and then a powder two hours afterwards. You see, I knew 
that medicine ought to be taken every two hours, because 
that is the way they gave me medicine once when I was 
sick in the hospital in New York. 

It was hard work to make Mr. Crusoe take his medicine, 
and I had to wait till he opened his mouth, and then put a 
stick between his teeth to hold his mouth open till I could 
pour the medicine into it. This generally succeeded, though 
sometimes I would spill most of the medicine, and have to 
give him a second dose. 

That day and all the next night I gave him his medicine 
regularly, and we worked along through six different bottles 
and six different powders. None of them seemed to do him 
much good, however, and two or three times in the night he 
was so sick that he couldn't hold on to his medicine but a 
very few minutes. 




I WAS TOO QUICK FOR HIM, AND THREW HIM DOWN.' 



THE NEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIB RAH Y 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 131 

When morning came I was pretty sleepy, having been on 
duty so long, but I remembered that Mr. Crusoe hadn't had 
anything to eat for a long time, and must be getting hun- 
gry. At the hospital they used to give me a sort of soup 
called gruel until I was nearly well, and then some ladies 
came one day and gave me a lot of flowers and some choco- 
late. I didn't know how to make gruel, and we hadn't any 
chocolate, so I picked a lot of wild flowers and gave them to 
Mr. Crusoe, but I don't think they did him much good. So 
I thought I would take the risk of giving him some fried 
pork and some canned peaches. He took the peaches, but 
he wouldn't look at the pork, so I finished it myself. 

He kept in about the same condition for three days, and 
then he seemed a little better. This was just after he had 
taken a dose out of a big square bottle, so I hoped I had 
found the right medicine. The next time his medicine was 
due I gave him another dose out of the same bottle, and as 
the powders were beginning to run low, I gave up serving 
them out. But I hadn't found the right medicine yet ; 
for a little while after he had taken the second dose he 
became just as if he had been hit on the head and stunned, 
and his hands and legs were cold. I gave him some bran- 
dy, which brought him to, and made up my mind that 



132 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

the kind of medicine that is in square bottles was not good 
for him. 

So I went back to my old plan of giving him a dose out 
of each bottle ; and as I had found three boxes of pills in the 
bottom of the chest, I gave him one of each kind, making 
three altogether, every two hours ; that is, half-way between 
the doses of bottled medicine. Then I remembered that 
plasters were good for sick people, and as there were a lot 
of plasters in the chest, I put six on him in different places. 
I meant to take them off at the end of twenty-four hours, 
but when I tried to get them off they wouldn't come, so I 
had to leave them on, and it was about two months before 
he was able to get rid of them. 

Mr. Crusoe was sick so long that I had to give up watch- 
ing him all night ; so I used to give him a double dose of 
medicine at bedtime, and then let him sleep the rest of the 
night. In spite of all my care, he didn't seem to get any 
better. He was crazy all the time, and never seemed to no- 
tice that I was taking care of him. But I felt sure that the 
right medicine must be in that medicine-chest, and that if I 
stuck to it long enough I would find it. I was a little afraid, 
however, that he would starve to death, for he wouldn't eat 
a thing except canned peaches and canned lobster. 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 133 

At the end of two weeks he was so weak that he couldn't 
turn himself over, and I was able to take off his lashings, 
for he couldn't get out of bed alone, much less do me any 
harm. 

Though I say it myself, I did everything I could to help 
him. One day I remembered that when I was in the hospi- 
tal they used to read books to sick people ; so I found the 
captain's book on navigation, and after that I used to read 
to Mr. Crusoe about an hour every day. I read him all the 
problems in plane sailing, parallel sailing, Mercator's sailing, 
and oblique sailing, and a great deal of the tables of loga- 
rithms. The tables really helped him, I think, for he some- 
times went to sleep while I was reading them. 

Two or three times I thought I had found the right medi- 
cine, but I always found out by giving Mr. Crusoe three or 
four doses of it that it didn't fit him. Before the end of the 
third week all the powders, nearly all the pills, and about 
half of the bottled medicine was gone, and I was afraid that 
if he was sick much longer I would have to put him on an 
allowance, and only serve out half doses of medicine. 

All this time I kept a bright lookout for picnickers. I 
fastened the ship's ensign, union down, to the top of the big 
tree on the hill, and built a big bonfire on the hill ready 



134 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

to light as a signal to any vessel that might sight the island 
in the night. But no picnickers and no vessel came, though 
if Mr. Crusoe had let me make signals for vessels from the 
time we first came ashore, I am sure we should have been 
taken off very soon. 

I was getting so anxious about Mr. Crusoe that I wanted 
to try everything that I could think of that might help him. 
I had sometimes seen a man's arm, when he had sprained 
it, rubbed with medicine, and as Mr. Crusoe's brain was all 
wrong, I thought that perhaps he had sprained it by think- 
ing too hard about his grandfather. I tried rubbing his 
head with medicines, hoping that it might do his brain 
good ; and as medicines can't hurt you when they are only 
rubbed into you, I used to mix half a dozen medicines to- 
gether and rub Mr. Crusoe's head with the mixture. But 
one day I happened to rub him with a medicine that turned 
his hair bright blue, and then made it all fall out. Either 
that or some other medicine made his head very sore, so I 
had to give up rubbing him before it really had time to do 
much good. 

Doctors sometimes give baths to sick people, and some- 
times they even make people take hot baths. But I think 
that is dangerous, for I was once shipmate with a man who 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 135 

told me that lie knew a man who got into a hot bath, and 
all the skin peeled off of him, and he died. 

As I had tried everything else, I tried carrying Mr. Crusoe 
down to the lagoon and dipping him in the water. At first 
he didn't like it, but after a little he quite took to it, and 
would let me carry him down and dip him without saying 
a word. For all that, it didn't do him any good nothing 
did ; and though he must have taken four gallons of bottled 
medicine, and I don't know how many pounds of powders, 
he was no better, as far as I could see, than he would have 
been if he hadn't had a drop of medicine. 

Mr. Crusoe had been sick eighteen days, when one after- 
noon, about four o'clock, I saw a sail. She was a brig, and 
was just hull down on the horizon and standing to the north- 
ward. I hurried up to the top of the hill and lighted my 
bonfire so that she could see the smoke of it. I had kept a 
tin can full of kerosene in the middle of the bonfire, so that 
it would blaze nicely whenever the kerosene caught fire, as 
it was sure to do almost as soon as the bonfire was lighted. 
Of course I didn't expect the brig to see a blaze in the 
daytime, but burning kerosene makes a tremendous black 
smoke, and I felt sure that the brig would see the smoke. 

I couldn't stay on the hill and watch for the brig, for it 



136 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

was the time of day when I read to Mr. Crusoe, and I never 
was one to shirk any duty that belonged to me. However, 
I suppose I did read a little faster than usual, and as soon 
as I had finished I ran out to see the brig. She was about 
where she was when I saw her first, only a little more to the 
northward, but she wasn't the least bit nearer the island. 

I got together a big pile of wood and kept that fire going 
all night, and watched for the brig. It was perfectly certain 
that the people on board of her would see the flame even if 
they hadn't noticed the smoke ; but when the day broke the 
brig was out of sight, and I never saw her again. 

I didn't like being abandoned with a sick man on my 
hands, but there was no use in grumbling about it ; and 
then I thought that if the captain of that brig could stand 
the recollection that he had refused to come to the rescue of 
a shipwrecked sailor, not to speak of Mr. Crusoe, I could 
stand being left on the island a while longer. 

Unless I made a mistake in my calculations, Mr. Crusoe 
had been sick just four weeks when he woke up in the 
morning feeling a great deal better. His head seemed to 
be all right, for he spoke quietly and pleasantly, and said, 
" Would you please get me a little something to eat P I 
was perfectly happy, for I saw that he was out of danger, 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 137 

and that he was perfectly rational, or at least as much so as 
I had ever known him to be. 

I would have given something to know what medicine it 
was that had cured him ; but it so happened that the last 
time I had served it out there wasn't quite enough in one 
bottle, so I added a little more medicine from another bot- 
tle, and of course I couldn't tell whicli was the medicine 
which did the work. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

I GOT Mr. Crusoe a little fried pork and some canned 
peaches, for I thought he must be well enough to eat the 
pork, but he wasn't. He finished the peaches, however, and 
then he said, " Will you kindly tell me where I am ?" 

" You're on the island, Mr. Crusoe, but you've been sick 
for a good while." 

"I must have been," he replied, looking at one of his 
arms, and smiling to see how thin it was. " But what isl- 
and do you mean ? not Blackwell's Island, I hope ?" 

"It's your grandfather's island. Don't you remember 
about our being wrecked here ?" 

" Well, since I don't remember ever having gone on board 
a ship, I naturally don't remember being wrecked," he an- 
swered. "And then I never heard before that my grand- 
father had an island. May I ask whereabouts this island is?" 

" I only wish I knew," I replied. " It's somewheres in 
the South Pacific ; that's all I know about it." 

"Have you ever been in a lunatic asylum, my young 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 139 

friend?" asked Mr. Crusoe, after thinking for a minute or 
two ; " or is this place an asylum ?" 

" I don't know anything about asylums, Mr. Crusoe," said 
I. " This island is a coral island, and not an asylum that 
is, as far as I know." 

" I'll only ask one more question," said he. " Tell me 
why you call me Mr. Crusoe ?" 

" Because that's your name." 

" That will do," he answered. " I'll try to sleep a little 
now. I thought my name was Robert H. Monroe, but I 
suppose I was wrong." 

Mr. Crusoe turned over, after trying two or three times, 
which showed that he was stronger than he had been, and 
presently went to sleep. 

What he said worried me very much ; because if he didn't 
know his own name, or where he was, he must be crazy still. 
I had half a mind to tie his hands and feet together again, 
but he was so weak that it didn't seem to be worth while. 

The next time he woke up it was after sleeping about ten 
hours, and he looked much brighter. I got him something 
more to eat, and after he had eaten it he began to talk. The 
first thing he wanted was that I should tell him all about 
our being shipwrecked. 



140 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

He listened quietly, and when I had finished he asked me 
my name. I told him it was Michael Flanagan, though he 
had generally called me Friday. 

" I must have had a brain-fever, Michael," said he ; " and, 
so far as I can see, you have saved my life and taken care 
of me. If we can ever get back to America again you 
will find out whether I am grateful or not. But please 
tell me what made you think my name was Crusoe ?" 

" Because you said so, sir," I replied. " Don't you re- 
member how you told me that your grandfather, old Mr. 
Robinson Crusoe, lived on this island, and how you were 
bound to do exactly everything that he did ?" 

"If I was crazy enough to do that, I must have been a 
nice companion for you. Never mind, though ; I've got 
my senses back again now, and as soon as I get stronger we'll 
find some way to escape from here." 

" Then wasn't your grandfather's name Robinson Cru- 
soe ?" asked I. " Are you quite sure, sir ?" 

" Perfectly sure," said he. " My grandfather was a sensi- 
ble old gentleman, who never set his foot on a ship." 

" Then, sir," said I, " if you please, you'll kindly let me 
say that the Robinson Crusoe you used to talk about must 
have been the worst old idiot that ever lived, and if I had 




PUBLIC LIBR 



. *"* 

'"" 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 141 

only known that he wasn't your grandfather I'd have taken 
you away from here months ago." 

" How long have we been here ?" asked Mr. Monroe. 

"Well, sir, you used to keep a sort of log by making 
scratches on a post, and according to that we've been here 
about two hundred and fifteen years. According to my 
reckoning we've been here about a year and two months." 

" And in all that time you haven't seen a soul except one 
crazy man ?" 

" Oh yes," said I, " there were a lot of Sunday-school pic- 
nickers came here about a month ago, but they didn't see 
us. You said they were cannibals, and you wanted to shoot 
them." 

"I must have been a nice person," said he, laughing. 
"But what I want to do now is to get strong. I suppose 
you haven't any milk here ?" 

" There are the goats. If you like goat's milk, you can 
have all you want of it." 

So I fed him on goat's milk for a week, and by the end 
of that time he was stronger than Mr. Crusoe ever was. 

He was a gi;eat deal nicer than Mr. Crusoe, and whenever 
I told him what Mr. Crusoe used to do he would laugh him- 
self nearly sick. The goat-skin clothes amused him more 



142 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

than anything else, though he hated them, as much as I 
did. 

He didn't remember the least thing about his having been 
at sea. He said that the last thing he could remember was 
being in his house in !N"ew York, and having two doctors 
come to see him. When I described the man that was with 
him on board the ship he could not tell who he was, but 
rather thought he must have been a hired nurse. It was 
Mr. Monroe's opinion that his doctors must have told him 
to take a sea-voyage, and that he must have become crazy 
soon after the ship sailed. 

I can't to this day understand how it was that I could 
have lived nearly a year with Mr. Monroe without seeing 
that he was a lunatic. Sometimes I used to say to myself 
that I believed he wasn't quite right in his mind, but I never 
really thought so ; and when towards the last he was raving 
crazy, I thought it was only because he had caught a fever 
by taking cold after he had shot himself in the leg. 

As soon as Mr. Monroe was well enough we made ready 
to leave the island in the canoe. We victualled her with 
canned provisions, and put water aboard her enough to last 
us a month. Of course we took blankets and such things 
with us, but nearly everything else that we had we put into 



A New Robinson Crtisoe. 143 

the house, and before we started we nailed a card on the 
door witli our names written on it, and a promise that we 
would come back for our property in a short time. 

I was in favor of sailing across to what we had always 
supposed was the main -land. Mr. Monroe said that if a 
picnic-party had landed on the island it proved that there 
was a town within at least a day's sail, and that we should 
be very sure to find it by crossing to the main -land. I 
thought so too ; so we set sail one morning with a fair wind, 
and by night were within four or five miles of the land. 
As we were afraid to try to land at night, we lay off the 
land till morning, and then, the wind having died out, we 
paddled to the shore. 

We went ashore, but as there was no sign of any town, 
we coasted along expecting every time we doubled a head- 
land to find a town behind it. We kept on all day, and 
never saw anything but sand or trees, and about sunset found 
ourselves just opposite the place where we had landed. 

Instead of being the main-land the land was only another 
uninhabited island, much smaller than ours. There was no 
other land in sight except one island, and we went ashore 
and camped on the beach, feeling a good deal discouraged 
that is, I was discouraged. 



144 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

Mr. Monroe couldn't be made discouraged by anything. 
He was the jolliest man I ever knew. I told him how he 
insisted that there were a lot of Spaniards kept as prisoners 
on the main-land by the cannibals, and how he was always 
expecting them to come over to our island, and he fairly 
rolled over and over on the ground, laughing at himself. 
Perhaps I ought to say that he was laughing at Mr. Crusoe, 
for he was such a different man from Mr. Crusoe that I 
could never feel as if they were the same. 

Since we had found out that the main-land was nothing 
but another island, and that there was no more land in sight, 
we could not tell which way to steer in order to find land. 
As our ship had been driven out of her course a long way 
south before she was wrecked, we both agreed that the best 
thing we could do would be to steer north. So the next 



morning we set sail and steered northward all day ; but that 
night Mr. Monroe stumbled and fell over the compass and 
smashed it, so after that we could only steer by the stars. 

We had beautiful weather, with fair, fresh breezes that 
sent us along at about the rate of five knots an hour. Mr. 
Monroe learned how to handle the boat very quickly, and 
we used to take watch and watch ; that is, he would steer 
for about four hours, and then he would take a rest for four 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 145 

hours. I never had a better time than I had in that canoe. 
We had plenty to eat, just work enough to keep us busy, 
and a good seaworthy boat under us. If I could have got 
rid of my goat-skin clothes I should have been perfectly 
happy; but when those clothes got wet, as they did almost 
every day, they were as stiff as planks, and felt as if they 
were full of sharp nails. 

We cruised for eight days in the canoe. Twice we saw a 
sail, but she was always way up to windward, and we had no 
chance of catching her, and were too far away for her to see 
us. But the eighth day we saw a ship a good ways astern 
of us and a good ways to leeward, for we had a beam wind. 
We had no trouble in laying our course so as to meet her, 
and by noon we were safe aboard her, with our canoe lying 
on the deck alongside the long-boat. 

She was an English ship, the Aberdeen, bound to San 
Francisco, and the captain treated us very well. He took 
Mr. Monroe into the cabin, but I turned to with the crew, 
for I had been ashore so long that I was very glad to see 
the inside of a forecastle again. We had a good run to San 
Francisco, and when we had landed, Mr. Monroe telegraphed 
home and got some money, and took me to New York with 
him on the train. 
10 



146 A New Robinson Crusoe. 

What I want to know now is where to find that island. 
I believe that it is somewheres, inside of a thousand miles 
north of Australia, but that isn't enough to help anybody to 
find it. You might as well try to find a Mr. Smith by just 
knowing that he lived within a thousand miles more or less 
north of Mexico. If Mr. Monroe and I could find that isl- 
and, we could sell it for a lot of money, and be rich all the 
rest of our days. But nobody will ever find it till somebody 
is shipwrecked on it again, and most likely when anybody 
is shipwrecked on it he will have to stay there. 

Mr. Monroe and I often talked about the picnickers, and 
we finally agreed that they couldn't have been a Sunday- 
school, but that they must have been on a yachting cruise, 
and accidentally discovered the island. But they certainly 
acted as if they had been there before ; and then how can 
you account for the footprint and the hair-pin unless they 
had been there before ? And if women and men came twice 
to the same island just to cook dinner there and then sail 
away again, they must have come from some place within a 
day's sail. Then there were the goats. They would hardly 
have been as tame as they were unless they had been used 
to seeing people. 

But it doesn't do any good to cry over lost islands. The 



A New Robinson Crusoe. 147 

island is lost, and I never expect to find it. After all, I 
don't care very much about having lost it, for Mr. Monroe 
has got me a first-rate place on a farm, and I needn't ever 
go to sea any more. He is the best man that ever lived, 
and I would stick by him even if he were to turn into Mr. 
Crusoe again. 



THE END. 



INTERESTING BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. 

PUBLISHED BY HAEPEE & BKOTHERS. 



HAKPEE & BROTHERS will send their publications by mail, postage prepaid, 
to any part of the United States or Canada, on receipt of the price. 



THE WONDER CLOCK ; or, Four-and-Twenty Marvellous Tales : Being 
One for each Hour of the Day. Written and Illustrated with 160 Draw- 
ings by HOWARD PTLE, Author of "Pepper and Salt," "The Rose of 
Paradise," &c. Embellished with Verses by KATHARINE PYLE. pp. xiv., 
320. Large 8vo, Ornamental Cloth, $3 00. 

PEPPER AND SALT ; or, Seasoning for Young Folks. Prepared by 
HOWARD PYLE. Beautifully and Profusely Illustrated by the Author. 
4to, Illuminated Cloth, $2 00. 

THOMAS W. KNOX'S WORKS. 8vo, Cloth. Profusely Illustrated. 

THE BOY TRAVELLERS ON THE CONGO. Adventures of Two Youths in a 

Journey with Henry M. Stanley "Through the Dark Continent." $3 00. 
THE BOY TRAVELLERS IN THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE. $3 00. 
THE BOY TRAVELLERS IN SOUTH AMERICA. A Journey through Ecuador, 
Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Argentine Republic, and Chili. With Descrip- 
tions of Voyages upon the Amazon and La Plata Rivers. $3 00. 
THE VOYAGE OF THE "VIVIAN," to the North Pole and Beyond. Adventures 

of Two Youths in the Open Polar Sea. $2 50. 

THE BOY TRAVELLERS IN THE FAR EAST Five Parts. $3 00 each. The 
Five Parts in a Box, $15 00. 
PART I. JAPAN AND CHINA. 

PART II. SI AM AND JAVA. With Descriptions of Cochin China, Cambodia, 
Sumatra, and the Malay Archipelago. 

PART III. CEYLON AND INDIA. With Descriptions of Borneo, the Philip- 
pine Islands, and Burtnah. 
PART IV EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND. 
PART V. JOURNEY THROUGH AFRICA. 

HUNTING ADVENTURES ON LAND AND SEA. Two Parts. $2 50 each. 
PART I. THE YOUNG NIMRODS IN NORTH AMERICA. 
PART II. THE YOUNG NIMRODS AROUND THE WORLD. 

CHARLES CARLETON COFFIN'S WORKS. Five Volumes. Copiously 
Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $3 00 each. 

THE STORY OF LIBERTY. THE BOYS OF '76. 

OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES. BUILDING THE NATION. 

DRUM-BEAT OF THE NATION. 



Interesting Books for Young People. 



INDIAN HISTORY FOR YOUNG FOLKS. By FRANCIS S. DRAKE. Co- 
piously Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $3 00. 

HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE. Bound Volumes V., VI., VII., and VIII. 
ready. (Volumes I., II., III., and IV. out of print.) 4to, Cloth, $3 50 each. 
Each Volume contains the Numbers for a year, with over 800 pages 
and about 700 Illustrations. 

HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE SERIES. Ill'd. 16rno, Cloth, $1 00 per vol. 

THE FOUR MACNICOLS. By William Black. 



TOBY TYLER ; OR, TEN WEEKS WITH A CIR- 
CUS. MR. STUBBS'S BROTHER (Sequel to 
"Toby Tyler "). TIM AND TIP. RAISING 
THE "PEARL." LEFT BEHIND; OR, TEN 
DAYS A NEWSBOY. SILENT PETE. By 
James Otis. 

THE MORAL PIRATES. THE CRUISE OF THE 
"GHOST." THE CRUISK OF THE CANOE 
CLUB. THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY 
BROWN. A NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. By 
W. L. Alden. 

MILDRED'S BARGAIN, AND OTHER STORIES. 
NAN. ROLF HOUSE. THE STORY OF 
Music AND MUSICIANS. THE COLONEL'S 
MONEY. By Lucy C. Lillie. 

WHO WAS PAUL GRAYSON? By John Hab- 
berton. 



THE TALKING LEAVES : An Indian Story. 
Two ARROWS : A Story of Red and 
White. By W. O. Stoddard. 

THE ICE QUEEN. By Ernest Ingersoll. 

THE LOST CITY; OR, THE BOY EXPLORERS 
IN CENTRAL ASIA. INTO UNKNOWN SEAS. 
By David Ker. 

PRINCE LAZYBONES, AND OTHER STORIES. 
By Mrs. W. J. Hays. 

STRANGE STORIES FROM HISTORY, FOR 
YOUNG PEOPLE. By G. Cary Eggleston. 

WAKULLA : A Story of Adventure in Flor- 
ida. THE FLAMINGO FEATHER. DER- 
RICK STERLING. By C. K. Munroe. 



DIDDLE, DUMPS, AND TOT ; OR, PLANTATION CHILD-LIFE. By 

LOUISE CLARKE-PYRNELLE. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

NEW GAMES FOR PARLOR AND LAWN. By G. B. BARTLETT. 16mo, 
Cloth, $1 00. 

FROM THE FORECASTLE TO THE CABIN. By Captain S. SAMUELS. 
Illustrated, pp. xviii., 308. 12mo, Extra Cloth, $1 60. 

POLITICS FOR YOUNG AMERICANS. By CHARLES NORDHOFF. 12mo, 
Half Leather, 75 cents ; Paper, 40 cents. 

GOD AND THE FUTURE LIFE. The Reasonableness of Christianity. 
By CHARLES NORDHOFF. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

ANIMAL LIFE IN THE SEA AND ON THE LAND. A Zoology for 
Young People. By SARAH COOPER. Profusely Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, 
$1 25. 



Interesting Books for Young People. 



THE BALL OF THE VEGETABLES, and Other Stories in Prose and 
Verse. By MARGARET EYTINGE. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $2 00. 

THE HISTORY OF A MOUNTAIN. By ELISEE RECLUS. Illustrated 
by L. BENNETT. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

THE ADVENTURES OF A YOUNG NATURALIST. By LUCIEN BIART. 
With 117 Illustrations. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75. 

AN INVOLUNTARY VOYAGE. By LUCIEN BIART. Illustrated. 12mo, 
Cloth, $1 25. 

THE BOYHOOD OF MARTIN LUTHER. By HENRY MAYHEW. Illus- 
trated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

THE STORY OF THE PEASANT-BOY PHILOSOPHER. (Founded on 
the Early Life of Ferguson, the Shepherd-Boy Astronomer.) By HENRY 
MAYHEW. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

YOUNG BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. By HENRY MAYHEW. Illustrated. 
16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE ; or, Young Humphry Davy. The Life 
of a Wonderful Boy. By HENRY MAYHEW. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

THE BOYHOOD OF GREAT MEN. By JOHN G. EDGAR. Illustrated. 
16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

THE FOOTPRINTS OF FAMOUS MEN. By JOHN G. EDGAR. Illus- 
trated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

HISTORY FOR BOYS; or, Annals of the Nations of Modern Europe. 
By JOHN G.EDGAR. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

SEA-KINGS AND NAVAL HEROES. A Book for Boys. By JOHN G. 
EDGAR. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

THE WARS OF THE ROSES. By JOHN G. EDGAR. Illustrated. 16mo, 

Cloth, $1 00. 



Interesting Books for Young People. 



HOW TO GET STRONG, AND HOW TO STAY SO. By WILLIAM 
BLAIKIE. With Illustrations. 16ino, Cloth, $1 00 ; Paper, 50 cents. 

SOUND BODIES FOR OUR BOYS AND GIRLS. By WILLIAM BLAIKIE. 
Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 40 cents. 

DOGS AND THEIR DOINGS. By Rev. F. 0. MORRIS, B.A. Illustrated. 
Square 8vo, Cloth, Gilt Sides, $1 75. 

TALES FROM THE ODYSSEY FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. By C. M. B. 

32mo, Paper, 25 cents ; Cloth, 40 cents. 

CAST UP BY THE SEA; or, The Adventures of Ned Gray. By Sir 
SAMUEL W. BAKER. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25; 4to, Paper, 15 
cents. 

THE ADVENTURES OF REUBEN DAVIDGER; Seventeen Years and 
Four Months Captive among the Dyaks of Borneo. By J. GREENWOOD. 
8vo, Cloth, $1 25 ; 4 to, Paper, 15 cents. 

WILD SPORTS OF THE WORLD. A Book of Natural History and 
Adventure. By JAMES GREENWOOD. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, Cloth, 
$2 50. 

HOMES WITHOUT HANDS : Being a Description of the Habitations of 
Animals. By the Rev. J. G. WOOD, M.A., F.L.S. With about 140 Illus- 
trations. 8vo, Cloth, $4 50 ; Sheep, $5 00 ; Half Calf, $6 75. 

THE ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY. By the Rev. J. G. WOOD. 
M.A., F.L.S. With 450 Engravings. 12rno, Cloth, $1 05. 

CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS; and the Tricks of Trapping and Trap 
Making. By W. HAMILTON GIBSON, Author of " Pastoral Days." Illus- 
trated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

NIMROD OF THE SEA ; or, The American Whaleman. By WILLIAM M. 
DAVIS. With many Illustrations. 12mo, Cloth, $2 00. 

ODD PEOPLE : Being a Popular Description of Singular Races of Man. 
By Captain MAYNE REID. With Illustrations. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents. 



Interesting Books for Young People. 



COUNTRY COUSINS. Short Studies in the Natural History of the 
United States. By ERNEST INGERSOLL. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 

FRIENDS WORTH KNOWING. Glimpses of American Natural His- 
tory. By ERNEST INGERSOLL. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

PAUL B. DU CHAILLU'S WORKS ON AFRICA. Five Volumes. II- 
lustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 each. 

THE COUNTRY OF THE DWARFS. MY APINGI KINGDOM. 

WILD LIFE UNDER THE EQUATOR. LOST IN THE JUNGLE. 

STORIES OF THE GORILLA COUNTRY. 

ROUND THE WORLD ; including a Residence in Victoria, and a Jour- 
ney by Rail across North America. By a Boy. Edited by SAMUEL 
SMILES. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

THE SELF-HELP SERIES. By S. SMILES. 12mo, Cloth, $1 00 each. 
SELF-HELP. CHARACTER. THRIFT. DUTY. 

STORIES OF INVENTORS AND DISCOVERERS in Science and the 
Useful Arts. By JOHN TIMES. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

OUR CHILDREN'S SONGS. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $1 00. 

FAMOUS LONDON MERCHANTS. A Book for Boys. By H. R. Fox 
BOURNE. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

PRAIRIE AND FOREST. A Description of the Game of North Amer- 
ica, with Personal Adventures in their Pursuit. By PARKER GILLMORE. 
Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

PUSS-CAT MEW, and Other New Fairy Stories for my Children. By 
E. H. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

FAIRY TALES OF ALL NATIONS. By EDOUARD LABOULAYE. Trans- 
lated by MARY L. BOOTH. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, Bevelled Edges, 

$2 00 ; Gilt Edges, $2 50. 

LAST FAIRY TALES. By EDOUARD LABOULAYE. Translated by MARY 
L. BOOTH. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, Bevelled Edges, $2 00; Gilt 
Edges, $2 50. 



6 Interesting Books for Young People. 

THE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS ; or, The Arabian Nights' Enter- 
tainments. Translated and Arranged for Family Reading by E. W. 
LANE. 600 Illustrations. 2 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $3 50. 

JACOB ABBOTT'S WORKS. 

SCIENCE FOR THE YOUNG. Illustrated. 4 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 each. 
HEAT. WATER AND LAND. 

LIGHT. FORCE. 

FRANCONIA STORIES. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents each. 

MALLEVILLE. WALLACE. MARY ERSKIXE. 

MARY BELL. BEECHNUT. RODOLPHUS. 

ELLEN LINN. STUYVESANT. CAROLINE. 

AGNES. 

LITTLE LEARNER SERIES. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents each. 
LEARNING TO TALK. LEARNING ABOUT COMMON THINGS. 

LEARNING TO THINK. LEARNING ABOUT RIGHT AND WRONG. 

LEARNING TO READ. 

MARCO PAUL SERIES. Marco Paul's Voyages and Travels in the Pursuit of 
Knowledge. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents each. 

IN NEW YORK. IN VERMONT. 

ON THE ERIE CANAL. IN BOSTON. 

IN THE FORESTS OF MAINE. AT THE SPRINGFIELD ARMORY. 

RAINBOW AND LUCKY SERIES. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents each. 

HANDIE. THE THREE PINES. 

'RAINBOWS JOURNEY. SELLING LUCKY. 

UP THE RIVER. 

YOUNG CHRISTIAN SERIES. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75 each. 
THE YOUNG CHRISTIAN. THE WAY TO DO GOOD. 

THE CORNER STONE. HOARYHEAD AND M'DONNER. 

THE YOUNG CHRISTIAN. A Memorial Volume. With a Sketch of the Author 
by one of his Sons. Steel-Plate Portrait of the Author, and Wood-cuts. 12mo, 
Cloth, $2 00. 



Interesting Books for Young People. 



ABBOTTS' (JACOB AND J. S. C.) BIOGRAPHICAL HISTORIES. Il- 
lustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00 per volume. 

CYRUS THE GREAT. MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS. 

DARIUS THE GREAT. QUEEN ELIZABETH. 

XERXES. CHARLES I. 

ALEXANDER THE GREAT. CHARLES II. 

ROMULUS. HERNANDO CORTEZ. 

HANNIBAL. HENRY IV. 

PYRRHUS. LOUIS XIV. 

JULIUS CAESAR. MARIA ANTOINETTE. 

CLEOPATRA. MADAME ROLAND. 

NERO. JOSEPHINE. 

ALFRED THE GREAT. JOSEPH BONAPARTE. 

WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR. HORTENSE. 

RICHARD I. LOUIS PHILIPPE. 

RICHARD II. GENGHIS KHAN. 

RICHARD III. KING PHILIP. 

MARGARET OF ANJOU. PETER THE GREAT. 

THE HISTORY OF SANDFORD AND MERTON. By THOMAS DAY. 

I8mo, Half Bound, 75 cents. 

JOHN BONDER'S CHILD'S HISTORIES. 

CHILD'S HISTORY OF GREECE. Illustrated. 2 vols., 16mo, Cloth, $2 50. 
CHILD'S HISTORY OF ROME. Illustrated. 2 vols., 16mo, Cloth, $2 50. 

CHILD'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES. New Edition, Revised, and 
brought down to the Close of the Rebellion. Illustrated. 3 vols., 16mo, Cloth, 
$375. 

THE STORY OF THE UNITED STATES NAYY, for Boys. By BENSON 
J. LOSSING. Illustrated. 12mo, Half Leather, $1 75. 

FRENCH HISTORY FOR ENGLISH CHILDREN. By SARAH BROOK. 
With Illustrations and Colored Maps. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By CHARLES DICKENS. Illustrated. 
2 vols. in one, 16mo, Half Leather, 60 cents. 



8 Interesting Books for Young People. 

THE HISTORY OF A MOUTHFUL OF BREAD, and its Effect on the 
Organization of Men and Animals. By JEAN MACE. Translated by 
Mrs. ALFRED GATTY. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75. 

THE SERVANTS OF THE STOMACH. By JEAN MACE. Reprinted from 
the London Edition, Revised and Corrected. 12mo, Cloth, $1 76. 

HOME FAIRY TALES. By JEAN MACE. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, 



75. 



YOUTH'S HEALTH-BOOK. 32mo, Paper, 25 cents; Cloth, 40 cents. 

STORIES OF THE OLD DOMINION. From the Settlement to the End 
of the Revolution. By JOHN ESTEN COOKE. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, 
$1 50. 

FRED MARKHAM IN RUSSIA ; or, The Boy Travellers in the Land of 
the Czar. By W. H. G. KINGSTON. Illustrated. Small 4to, Cloth, 75 
cents. 

SELF-MADE MEN. By CHARLES C. B. SEYMOUR. Many Portraits. 12mo, 
Cloth, $1 75. 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, of York, Mariner ; with a Biography of DEFOE. 
Illustrated. Complete Edition. 12mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. Ill'd. 2 vols., 18mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON Continued : being a Sequel to the 
Foregoing. 2 vols., 18mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. By JOHN BUNYAN. With a Life of the 
Author by ROBERT SOUTHEY. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 00; Gilt 
Edges, $1 50. 

THE CATSKILL FAIRIES. By VIRGINIA W. JOHNSON. Illustrated by 
ALFRED FREDERICKS. Square Svo, Illuminated Cloth, $3 00. 

WHAT MR. DARWIN SAW in his Voyage round the World in the Ship 
"Beagle." Illustrated. Svo, Cloth, $3 00. 



THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book Is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 



form 410 




u 



