
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



r 



r- 



/- 



1 



KC 557 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 




THE GIFT OF 

EDWARD PEROVAL MERRITT 

OF BOSTON 
Out of 1882 



oy Google 




' -■ 4 



*iAL- 



^ * .\ 



Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



Digitized by'VnOOQlC 




ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



THE NEW 



T&wm®<m <&mm®2 



INSTRUCTIVE AND ENTERTAINING 



HISTORY. 




DUBLIN: 

PRINTED BY B. SMITH, 46, MARY-STREET 
1827. 



J> 




ucLunaxA. Luv<u^ 




Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



THE NEW 
BOBINBON CRUSOE. 



T hxrb Bved in the turn of Exeter, a per- 
aea of the nane of Crusoe, who followed the 
p rof essi on of a broker. He had three sons* 
the two el des t of wheat died young; in the 
youngest, therefore, whose name was Robin- 
noa, Mr. and Mrs. Crusoe placed all their hopes 
and expectations. Thejr loved him as the 
apple of their eye, but their lore was blind 
and injudicious, and the consequence was that 
he grew up self-willed and disobedient. 

Robinson was already a stout stripling be* 
fore his parents had determined what profes- 
sion they should give him. His father was 
thnrous that he should learn some trade, but „ < 
the son said he should like better to travel, 
and become acquainted with the various cus- 
toms that foreign countries afford. 

I* speaking thus, young Crusoe shewed his 
folly; for, when a man wishes to see the world, 
be ought to be provided, beforehand, with a 
tolerable shara of knowledge; but this was 
what Robinson never thought of. 
A3 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

He was now 17 years of age. The greatest 
part of his time he had mis-spent in sauntering 
about the streets of Exeter. Every day he was 
teazing his father for leave to go and travel. 
But his father told him that he did not know 
what request he was making, and therefore 
would .riot hear a word Upon the subject* 

One day, when, according to custom, he was 
strolling about the streets, . he met one of his 
old play-fellows, whose father was captain of a 
ship then lying at Plymouth. He told Robin- ' 
son that he was to set off with his father in a 
day or two for Amsterdam, and asked him if 
lie should like to go with him, <" Yes, very 
well," replied he, " but my parents will not 
consent to it." "Pooh !" said the other, " We 
«hall be back again in a month ; and 'as to your 
^father and mother, you can let them know 
where you are gone." " But," says Robinson, 
*' I have no money in my pocket." t( You 
will not want any," replied the other, " but 
if you should, I'll supply you." 

Young Crusoe hesitated a few moments, as 
if considering what resolution he should take; 
at last he cried, " Agreed, my boy ! let us set 
off this moment for Plymouth." At the same 
time, he commissioned one of his acquaintance 
to let his father know (after the expiration of 
a few hours) that he was only gone to see- the 
city of Amsterdam in Holland, and that lie 
would be back in a week or, two. 

In leaving his father and mother without 
their permission, Robinson committed a -very 



IfEW ROBINSON CBUSOK. T 

Ttsh and foolish action ; but, it is to be toped, 
-there are few young persons now so ignorant as 
not to know their duty towards their parents; 
«t all events, you may be certain, that no good 
can ever come of such as behave like him. 

A short time after, the sailors weighed an- 
chor. Young Crusoe was upon the deck with 
hk friend, and almost out of his wits with joy 
£hat lie was at length going to begin his travels. 

The breeze blew so favourably* that they 
soon lost sight. *f the town and harbour of 
Plymouth. By degrees, they began to lose 
sight of land, and, as night came on, they 
could see nothing on that quarter but the Edya- 
tone light-house, which is built on a rock m 
'the middle of the sea. This also disappeared in 
<* very short time, and, from that moment, Ro- 
binson saw nothing above him but the sky, nor 
before, behind, and all round him, but the sea. 

For two days, they had a favourable wind* 
The third day it blew with uncommon violence, 
.and the air grew .every moment darker. In 
•short, it was .a dreadful storm. At one time, 
the lightning flashed as if the sky was on fire; 
then succeeded a pitchy darkness, like that of 
onidnight, with claps of thunder which succeed- 
ed each other quickly; the rain came down ia 
.floods, and the waves swelled and rose moun- 
tains high. 

What a noise was amongst the ropes! what 
a clattering upon the deck! The sailors were 
obliged to hold fast to something or other for 
/ear of being washed overboard. Robii*" a 



• KEW BOBSXSOK c&mo& 

Crusoe, wbo had never been accustomed to all 
this, g*ew giddy, and felt a disorder which is 
called sea sickness. "Ohf my poor father 
and mother!" cried he, " they will never sea 
me more! Oh miserable , fool that I am, fa 
have brought thia affliction on them !" 

Crack ! went something on the deck. " Hea- 
ven have mercy on us!" cried the sailors, turn- 
ing aa pale as death, and clasping their hands 
together. "What is the matter?" asked Ro- 
feinson, who was half dead with affright. 

"Ah! we are all lost!" answered one of 
the seamen ; '< the lightning has shivered out 
tfiften-mest to pieces, and the main-mast standi 
by so slender a hold that we must cut it down 
and throw It overboard." «« We are all lost," 
cried out another voice from below; w the 
ship has sprung a leak, and there are four feet 
of water in the hole*." 

At these words, ftobmson fell backwards 
void of sense and motion. All the rest ran to 
the pumps, in order, if possible, to keep the 
vessel afloat. They pumped with all their 
strength; nevertheless, the water still gained 
upon them in the hold. In order to lighten 
her, they threw overboard every thing that 
they could possibly spare, as the guns, mer- 
chandize, &c., but all that was of no manner 
of service. 

However, another ship saw their distress, 
and ventured to send out her boat, in order, 
if possible, to save the crew ; but it could not 
coma near, the wav es being too high. At 



SEW HOBINS05 CTIVSO& 9 

length, however, they were near enough to 
throw a rope to the people on hoard, hy means 
of which they towed the boat close under tlie 
ship's stern, and then erery one who could, 
eagerly jumped into iu Robmeon, who could 
not stand, was tumbled hi hastily hy some of 
the seamen more compassionate than the rest. 

They had hardly rowed many minutes, 
when the ship sunk before their eyes. Happily 
the storm was now almost totally abated, other- 
wise the waves would hare swallowed up the 
boat, which was then as full of people, as tt 
could hold. After many dangers, it got safe 
at length, to the ship, where they were all 
taken in. 

The ship that had taken him and the rest of 
the crew in, was bound to London. In four 
days, she came to anchor in the river Thames. 

They now landed, and happy was each one 
to have thus escaped the dangers of the sea. 
As to Robinson, his fright now over, his first 
care was to see London, where he met with 
such, a variety of new objects as entirely put 
the reme mb r an ce of past dangers out of his % 
head, as well as .all thoughts of the future. 
Happening, one day, to meet the captain with 
whom he had set sail from Plymouth, he re- 
ceived an invitation to dine with him, which 
was very agreeable to Robinson, as he had 
spent what little money he had borrowed from 
the captain's Son, and his pocket now was not 
able to afford him a single meal. At firmer, 
the captain asked him what particular inotiva 
a4 A 



10 NEW ROBINSON CRVSOE. s 

be had for going to Amsterdam. Robinson 
Answered him frankly, that he had nothing in 
view but his amusement, and had come off 
unknown to his rather and mother. 

" Unknown to your father and mother !" 
icried the captain, laying down his knife and 
fork: " Believe me, imprudent young man, 
if I had known so much at Plymouth, I would 
not have taken you on board of my ship for 
any consideration. 

Robinson sat with down-cast eyes blushing 
for shame, and unable to answer a single word. 

The honest captain then represented to him 
the folly he had been guilty of, and told him 
that be could never be happy unless be obtained 
forgiveness of his parents. At these words, 
Robinson wept bitterly. " Will you take me 
with you to Plymouth again?" said he.— r 
* « Who, I ?" said the captain : " Hare you 
forgot, then, that my ship is lost? It may be 
a considerable time before I return there: but 
aa for you, there is not a moment to lose; 
you should go aboard of the very first vessel 
.that sails for Plymouth, if it were even to day." 
" But," says Robinavn, " I have no money." 
4t Well," said the honest captain, " I will lend 
you a couple of guineas. Go down to the 
river, and get aboard of some vessel that is 
bound for Plymouth. If your repentance is 
.sincere, God will bless your return, and make 
it happier than your outset has been." With 
these words, he shook Robinson by the hand, 

Digitized by VnOO<? 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 11 

^ho parted from htm with many thanks for 
iiit kindness and good advice. 
4 While he was walking down towards the 
river, his head was filled with various reflec- 
tions. " What will my father and mother 
say,' 1 thought be to himself, " if I go back to 
them now? they will punish me for what I 
have done." 

This thought made him stop short. One. 
moment, he seemed determined not to go 
'home; yet, again, he reflected on what the 
•captain had told him, that he would never be 
<happy unless he returned to his parents. At 
length, however, he went down to the river; 
hut there he learned, to his great satisfaction, 
that there was not a single vessel in the river 
bound for Plymouth. The person who gave 
him this information was a captain of a ship, 
who was shortly to set sail for the coast of 
Guinea, in Africa. 

When he found that the young man had so 
eager a desire for travelling, he proposed to him 
to take a trip with him. Robinson at first was 
startled at the idea: but when the captain as- 
sured him that the voyage would be pleasant, 
and that so* far from costing him any thing, it 
might turn out a profitable adventure, Robin- 
son's passion for travelling revived with such 
force, that he immediately forgot every advice 
which the honest Plymouth Captain had given 
him, and ail the good resolutions that he him- 
self had taken but so short a time before.— 
* Captain," said he, " I am willing to<go «2on& 



12 HRW ROBJNSON CKVSOJS. 

with ye* wltea you please." , " Agreed !" r#- 
plied the other, taking ham by the hiwd; mil 
thus the matter was settled. Robinson made 
baft* to lay out his two guineas. He purchased 
wfoh them such articles a» the*, Cftptain men- 
tioned to him, and bad them carried oa board. 

Robinsons second voyage began, as favour- 
ably as the first. They had already cleaved 
the Chaaael, and w«re now ia the middle of 
the Atlantic Ocean* 

The ship swiftly cut the waves, and m a short 
tim* they bad sailed sowo bundled leagues. 
Their course now was. mostly directed to the 
Southward, and the wind continuing fair^ they 
arrived after a prosperous toyage.at the Madekm 



Just at this interval, arrived a Portuguese 
ship that came from Lisbon, and was bojand for 
Bra#& in South America* Robinson got ac- 
quainted with the captain of this *hfa> and 
hearing him talk of gtld duel and precious 
atones, be at once conceived a wish to make a 
voyage tq t*ra#fl where he fookeWy thought 
ho should fill Us pockets with dij»mt*eW~ 
findings thecefore, that the Fortagjueee: cgpteia 
was disposed to take him as o*e of bis crew, 
and that the English ship would be obliged to 
stop at least *; fortnight teager, he could not 
resist his desire of l^mWrng. He, therefore, tohi 
%ds #>e4 friend die EaglWb captain* bljmAly» 
that i>e. was going to lesivo hijBy and to taka 
a voyage* to, Brazil; and as tho captain bind 
begu* t& ace: Us restless u^plm&% \m Wt* 



N£W ROBINSO* CRUSOE. IS 

gtod to get rid of him. Robinson, therefore, 
weal aboard the Portuguese; and was, soon 
after, on his way to Braail* 

for several days the voyage was as fine as 
possible; but suddenly, a violent hurricane 
arose from the South-East. This dreadful 
storm continued for six days, and carried the 
aU}> far out of her way* 

The seventh morning, one of the sailors 
threw the whole crew into great joy, by crying 
out from the mast head, Land ; but in the very 
moment, then* joy was changed into conster- 
nation i the ship struck upon a sand bank, and 
•tuck an fast as if it had been nailed to the spot. 
The foaming wares dashed over the deck with 
Bueh violence, that they were all obliged to take 
refuge m the cabin, and between decks for fear 
of being carried overboard* 

Nothing was now to be heard amongst the 
crew but lamentable cries : some were praying, 
olhefs wept aloud ; some tore their hair like peo* 
pie in despair* others were half dead, and stupid- 
ly insensible. Suddenly one cried out that the 
ship had split. These dreadful tidings brought 
them all to Mfe. They ran hastily upon deck, 
lowered the boats and all jumped into it with 
the most precipitate haste* 

There were now so many people in the boat, 
that its sides wore scarcely lour inched above the 
wafer* The land was stil far off, and the storm 
so violent, that every one thought it impossi- 
ble to reach the shore* Nevertheless, they 
eaceited; their wbofe atcepgth in rowing, and 



U VBW R0BINSOM CBUSOB. 

fortunately the wind drove them towards 
bad. Suddenly, they beheld a wave moun- 
tain high, rolling towards the boat; at this 
dreadful sight the whole crew sat motionless 
and dropped their oars. At length it strikes 
the boat, oversets it, and all are at once swal- 
lowed up in the deep. 

Robinson was swallowed up in the sea along 
with the rest of the ship's company; but the 
same dreadful wave, which had buried him in the 
deep, at its return drew him along with it, and 
dashed him towards the shore. He was thrown 
with such violence upon a piece of a rock, that 
pain roused him from the state of insensibility 
that he was in before. He opened his eyes, and 
seeing himself upon dry ground, he exerted 
all his strength to gain the top of the beach. 

He reached it at length, but no sooner had 
he arrived at this spot of safety than he fainted 
away with fatigue. When he recovered, he 
opened his eyes and looked round. Alas! 
■The ship, the boat, his companions, all were 
lost ! There was nothing to be seen but a few 
broken planks, which the waves drove towards 
the shore. He alone was saved out of the whole 
ship's company. Trembling at once with fear 
and joy, he fell upon his knees, lifted up 
Ms hands towards Heaven, and while he shed 
a flood of tears, returned thanks aloud to the 
Maker of Heaven and Earth for his providen- 
tial escape. 

When the joy that he felt on his happy de- 
liverance bad a. little subsided, he began tare* 



HEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 

fleet on his situation. He looked about hurt, 
but could not perceive on any side the least 
mark that the country was inhabited. Happily 
be found a brook of pure and clear water where 
be might refresh himself to his utmost wish. 

However, the question was. Where must he 
pass the night? On the ground, he would be 
exposed to savages or wild beasts that would 
.devour him. Cabin, or cave, he saw no signs 
,qf. He knew not what to do ; he cried hear- 
tily. At length he resolved to imitate die 
birds, and, like them, to seek a retreat in some 
tree* Presently he discovered one, the boughs 
of which were so thick and so closely inter- 
woven, that he could sit amongst them, and 
even lay himself at his length very conve- 
niently. He climbed up this tree, offering up 
an earnest prayer to his Maker, then settled 
himself, and soon fell fast asleep. 

He, the next morning, began earnestly to 
consider how he should procure himself food. 
He had neither bread, nor meat, nor vegetables 
nor milk: and, had he even been master of a 
joint of meat, he had neither fire nor spit to 
roast it on, nor pot to boil it in. All the trees 
that be had seen hitherto, were such as never 
bear any fruit. " Must I, then, perish with 
hunger!" cried he, sobbing and looking up 
towards Heaven. However, necessity gave 
Jiim fresh strength to search carefully along 
the shore for something eatable : — in vain : 
nothing but logwood-trees and Indian willow; 
nothing but grass and sand. At length, 



Ife HEW JtOBTOSOH CRUSOE. 

fatigued, weakened, and exhausted, be burst 
into teats, and wished that be- bad perished in 
the wares of the sea, rather than be preserred 
*n)y to die a miserable death by hunger. 

He thought of nothing, therefore, now, trat 
of wailing in his forlorn situation, for the slow 
aad dreadful approach of death ; when, burning 
hia eyes, he saw a c or morant devouring ft fish 
that be had taken. Immediately he recol- 
lected that he had somewhere read the fol- 
lowing words: 

The Lord, who feeds with bounteous band, . 

The feather'd tenants of the air. 
Will surely over man expand, 

The wings of his paternal care. 

He then reproached himself with having put 
so fittle trust in Divine Providence ; and de- 
termined to walk as far as his strength would 
permit him. He shaped his course therefore 
along the shore. 

At length he perceived a number of oyster 
shells lying on the shore. He ran eagerly to- 
wards the spot, where they were, and carefully 
examined all round it, hoping to find oysters 
thereabouts. He did find some, which bad 
been thrown up by the waves, and his joy was 
inexpressible. 

His great uneasiness was next, to know 
where he should dwell for the future, to be 
free from all dread of savages and wild beasts. 

* To What purpose," sard he, within himself, 
44 have I hitherto escaped perishing with hun<* 



TOW ROBINSON CEU40S* If 

ger, since, perhaps, this very night, wild beasts 
will tear me to pieces ?" 

Determined therefore to seek put soon) 
cave, he climbed up to the top of a hiU, which 
was pretty high, and from which he could see 
all round him to the distance of several leagues* 
To his great mortification, he perceived that 
he was really on an island. 

" Poor unhappy wretch that I am !" cried he, 
"I am, then, cut off from all men, and have no 
hopes of being ever delivered from this savage 
place. But I deserve my fate," continued he, 
" Oh Lord, thou art just in all thy ways; It 
is I myself that made my lot so miserable," 

In this mournful silence, he continued on 
the spot, with, his eyes fixed, as it were to the 
ground. At length, however, thoughts more 
rational and consoling csune to his relief. He 
threw himself upon his knees, lifted up bis 
heart to Heaven, promised to be patient and 
resigned to his distresses, and prayed^ for 
strength to support them. 

- He now found himself much strengthened, 
and began to travel round the hill. At length, 
he came to a little hill, which in front, was 
as steep as a wall, with a clear spring running 
close to it. In examining this spot attentively, 
he found a place that seemed to be hollowed in 
under the hill, with a narrow entrance to it. 

If he had a pickaxe, it would have been easy 
to hollow out a complete dwelling under the 
rock, but he had no tools. The question was, 
then, how he should supply the want of them. 



*8 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



After puzzling his head a Jong time, he- 
began to reflect in this manner : " Some of the 
trees that I see here are like the willows of my 
eounM', which are easily transplanted. I 
witf Spat a number of these young trees, and 
here, 3£ will plant them close together, so that 
they inay form a sort of waft. When they 
grow up pretty high, I shall be able to sleep 
within this enclosure as safely as if I was in a 
house; for, behind, the steep wall of this rock 
will secure me, and in front, as well as on both 
sides, the close row of trees will keep off all 
danger.** 

Robinson now set about plucking up with 
his hands, some of these young trees, which 
tie effected with a great deal of trouble, and 
carried them to the place that he had destined 
for his dwelling. Here again, he was obliged 
to scratch a hole in the ground for each of his 
trees, and, as this work went on but very 
islowly, the day closed by the time that he had 
fixed five or six of them. 

After be had finished his work, hunger obli- 
ged him to walk down towards the shore in 
order to search for oysters; but, the tide was 
up, so that he found none, and was forced, for 
this time to go to bed suppeiiess. But where 
was his bed? He determined, until he could 
finish for himself, a complete and secure habi- 
tation, to Ke every night in the tree in which 
he had lain the last night. 

At break of day, the first thing that he did 
was to set off towards the shore to look for 



vbw aoBiNsoN causo*. Id 

oysters, intending afterwards to return to his 
work. He' happened . this time to go another 
way, and, as he walked on, waa overjoyed to 
find a tree which bore large fruit. It is -true, 
he did not, as yet, know what they migfet he ; 
hut he hoped to find them good for eating, and 
therefore to make a trial, he knocked down one. 

It was a large nut, something of a triangu- 
lar form, and as big as a young child's head. 
The outward rind waa composed of filaments, 
itr stringy folds, as if made of hemp. The se- 
icond husk or 'shell was, on the contrary, almost 
-as hard as the shell of a tortoise, and Robinson 
.soon, perceived that it would serve him for a 
jcaip. . The fruit within waa a sort of juicy kernel, 
which tasted like a sweet almond, and in the 
middle of this kernel, which waa hollow, ho 
found a delicious and finely flavoured milk. 

His joy at having discovered this excellent 
fruit brought tears into his eyes, and he looked 
up to Heaven with sensations of the warmest 
gratitude. The tree from which he had satisfied 
ihis appetite was a cocoa-nut tree, 
i Though Robinsons hunger was now satis- 
fied, yet he did not omit going down to the 
shore to- see what show the oysters made that 
day. Ho found a few, indeed, but far too few 
to afford him a hearty meal. He had, therefore, 
.great reason to thank God for having this day 
furnished him with another aort of food; and 
he did so with a heart full of gratitude. 

He carried home, for his dinner, the oysters 
jthat be had found, and went cheerfully abr 
his yesterday's work again. 



80 tnlw eobivscw ctuiot 

He bed picked up, on the teach, a large 
shall, which served him instead el a spade, and 
advanced his week considerably. A little after, 
he discovered a plant, the stalk of which was 
full of threads, Uke flax or hemp. In hopes, 
therefore, that it might he used in the sane 
manner, he plucked a quantity af it, tied it 
up in small bundles, and left them to soak in 
water. Haying observed, at the end of a few 
days, that the thick outside skin was suffi- 
ciently softened by the water, he drew out the 
bundles, and spread them thinly on the grass 
before the sun. As soon as they were pro- 
perly dried, he made atrial, with a large stick 
to pound them and break them like flax, and 
be succeeded* 

Immediately he endeavoured to turn the 
stringy part of these plants to use by malflDg 
small cords of it It is true, they were not 
well twisted, for he had neither awheel nor a, 
second person to assist him. However, they 
were strong enough to festen his great shell 
to the end of a stick, by which means he was 
now master of an instrument not much unlike 
a gardener's spade. 

He then went on with his work very dili- 
gently, and planted tree close by tree, until 
he had completely palhsaded the space that 
was before his intended dwelling. But as a 
single row of trees so very phahle did net 
seem a sufficient wall of defence, he planted 
a second: row outside the first. He then inter- 
wove the branches of the two rows together, 



XXW ROBIKSON CRUSOE. €t 

and, at last, thought of fillling up with earth 
the distance that was between then. Thia 
completed his wall, so solid that It would hare 
required a considerable force to push it in. 

Every morning and evening, lie watered 
bis little plantation with water from the, neigh- 
bouring spring, which he took up in his cocoa- 
nut shell ; and he hod very soon the satisfaction, 
of seeing his young trees sprout up and flou- 
rish, so as to afford a charming view to the. eye. 

When he had entirely finished his hedge, 
be spent a whole day in making a number of 
thick cords, out of which he formed, as well 
as be could, a ladder of ropes. 

His design was, to make no door to hir 
habitation, to go in and out ; for the rock 
which hung over his habitation was about as 
high as the second story of a bouse, and on 
the top of the rock was a tree. To this, there* 
fore, he fastened bis ladder of ropes, and let 
it hang down to the ground. He then tried 
to climb up by it, and succeeded to admiration* 

All this being finished, he considered by 
what means he might make the boHow under 
the rock large enough 'to serve him for a habi- 
tation. He saw very well that with bis bands 
alone he should never be able to manage it. 
He must find out some tool or instrument for 
the purpose. 

With this design, he repaired to a spot 
where he had seen a great number of hard 
greenstones scattered on the ground. Havmg 
searched amongst them carefully, he at las 



ft HEW ROBINSON CRUSOE/ 

found one which had the very form of a hatchet* 
and even a hole to fit the handle in. Into this 
hole he fixed a pretty thick stick, by way of 
a handle, and with some of the cord which he 
had made himself, he fastened it firm. He 
now tried to fell a small tree, and the attempt 
proving successful, filled him with inexpres- 
sible joy. Had any one offered him a sum 
of money for his hatchet, he would not have 
parted with it, such vast advantage did he 
promise himself from the use of it. 

Searching still among these green stones, 
he found two more, one of which answered 
extremely well for a mallet, and the other for 
m punch; both these he carried to his habita- 
tion, intending to go to work with them 
immediately. 

He succeeded to his wish. Laying the edge 
of the one stone upon the earth and rock, and 
striking it with the mallet, he knocked off 
several pieces of the rock, and, in a few days, 
the hollow seemed large enough for him to lie 
in at his ease. He had, before this, plucked up 
-a quantity of grass, which he had spread before 
4he sun to make hay of it. This being now 
sufficiently dried, he carried it to his cave to 
make himself a good bed. 

From this time, he was able to sleep without 
being obliged to perch, like a bird, in a tree. 
What a luxury it was to him to stretch his 
weary limbs upon a soft bed .of hay ! I^e thank- 
*ed God, and said within himself, " Oh ! if my 
countrymen knew what it Is to pass several 



XEVi ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2& 

nights, successively, seated upon a hard brand* 
of a tree, bow happy would they count them- 
selves to be able to enjoy the refreshment of 
sleep in convenient beds." 

The following day, which was Sunday* 
Robinson dedicated to .rest, to prayer, and 
meditation. He spent whole hours on* his 
knees, praying to God to pardon his sins, and 
to bless and comfort his poor parents. Then, 
with tears of joy, he thanked his Maker for 
the providential assistance that be had. expe- 
rienced in a situation, in which he was cut off 
from the whole world, and promised to grow 
better every day; and, with divine assistance, 
■ to persevere in his obedience. 

That he might not forget the order of days* 
Robinson, thought of making himself an alma- 
nack; not a printed one, it is true, nor quite 
so exact as those that we have in Europe, but 
still an almanack , by which he counted the; 
days regularly. 

He chose four trees that were close beside 
each other, and pretty smooth on the bark. 
On the largest of the four, he marked every 
evening a notch, to signify that a day was 
past. Seven notches denoted that the week was 
expired. Then he proposed to cut in the next 
tree another notch, to express a week ; • and 
as soon as he completed, in the second tree, 
four notches, he resolved to mark on the third, 
with a notch of the same sort, the revolution 
of a whole month; and, lastly, when these 
marks that stood for months should amour 



34 HEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to thirteen in number, to make a score on the> 
fourth tree, to denote that the whole year was ^ 
expired. Thus it was Robinson took care 
not to Jose the order of time, but to know on 
what days the Sabbath fell, that he might keep 
it holy, after the manner, of Christians. 

In the mean time, he had used the greatest 
part of the cocoa nuts that he had stored up, 
and the shore furnished him with so few oys* 
tors, that they were not sufficient to satisfy 
nature. He began, therefore, to be uneasy 
again, concerning the artiele of food. 

Hitherto fearfal and cautious, he had not 
dared to go any great distance from his dwel- 
ling. The dread of beasts, or of men not 
much more ctvjlized, if any were to be found 
in the country, kept him at home; but neces- 
sity at length obliged him to conquer his re* 
hictance, and to walk a little farther into the 
island, in order, if possible, to discover a new 
stock of provisions. He resolved, therefore^ 
with God's blessing and protection, to traverse 
the whole island, and to commence the follow- 
ing day. 

But, In order to defend himself from the 
excessive heat of the sun, he spent the whole 
evening making an umbrella. 

He had neither silk nor whale-bone, nor had 
he a knife, scissars, needle, or thread ; but 
Jie wove the top of it with sprigs of willow, 
. like a large round basket, not very deep : in 
*he middle of this, he fixed a stick, which he | 

tfed with his pack-thread, and then he went 



NBW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 

^%4» the cocoa-nut tree for some large leaves, 
T^^ich he fastened to the outside with tlie 
strongest and sharpest of some decayed fish 
bones, which he found on the beach* 

As it was not very late, he bethought 
himself of trying to make a net work bag 
that might hold his provisions, if he should 
happen to find any in his excursion. He 
made a tolerably good stock of pack-thread, 
and fastened across, between two trees that 
were little more than a yard asunder, several 
threads,* one under the other, like what 
weavers call the warp. He, in the next 
place, joined other threads, regularly, from 
top to bottom, knotting the thread that went 
.down with each thread that went across, 
in the manner that one weaves a net—- ^ 
These threads, therefore, that went down- 
wards, formed what ist called the woof. He 
next slipped off the ends of the threads from 
the trees, to which they were fastened, and 
joined the sides of the netting together ; 
closing up the bottom, so that he left no part 
open but the top. Here was a bag or pouch 
complete, which he hung by his side, having 
fastened both ends of a stout piece of pack- 
thread to the mouth- 
He rose the next morning before the sun, 
and prepared for his journey. He slipped his 
pouch string over his neck, put a strong cord 
round his waist, in which he stuck his hatchet, 
took his 4 umbrella upon his shoulder; and so 
began his march* . gle 

B 



£* *HTW ftOBftMON CKUSOB. 

Ho ftat paid * tieit to lik eecoa^nrt tree, 
to famish fefe hag wMi * Hue or two. Provided 
with 4ns efcotltont food, ho wont straight 
down to the sea-sftte to seek ait* some opttoe; 
*ttd, faring; got m sttett Mite of these two 
articles* in ease of necessity, he took a alight 
faeek&st, with a drifcfc of fresh water from 
his spring* and marched oft 

The wernmg was dbtightftd; the tun was 
Just then rfewg im all its heany, as it wane, 
*0t of the se*; the air was as pan and as fresh 
as If it had been hut then created, aad the plant* 
an* flowers gaiw out ttoeir sweetest smells. 

As Ms fear of wild ammak waa not pat 
entirely dissipated, ho avoided, in his weJh, 
as rmich as possible, oH fosses* and thickets* 
dnieing such ground* as allowed Um am open 
prospect eft every %ide : hot these grounds wave 
the barrenest parts of the whole island, so lint 
he wetot a long way without finding any thing 
that could repay Wm for hts trouble, or be the 
least eetride to hi*. At last he observed a 
parcel of plants which were growing together 
in tw\s, and fcrwed a kind of littfe coppice, 
goine had reddish bkfcseuia, otben while* a 
third sort, instead of blossoms, were covered 
with little green apples, about the sfce of a 
<.uenv» 

He eagerly l?k «ne of these apples, but 
found it unfit for eating, whieh so vased him, 
4bat he plucked up the whole tuft, and was 
froing to fling it aw«y with ai Ws force, when 
be perceived, to hie great surpsw, a wuabtfr 



NfiW BQBJHS/Wf CftXJSQty 91 

of round knobs hanging 6*** A* roots ef the 
tuft, la short, H ww the potato, growing 
wild, and m great iuxuriaites. We may weU 
suppose, therefore, that he gathered # few, 
after narking tke spot, and put them fete bis 
peuth. 

At length/ he arrived on the banks of a 
rivulet, where he resolved to make hie dinner. 
He Mated himself at tke foot of « large branch? 
tree, and was just going to regale lumseH* 
when, at once, a distant noise threw him again 
into a terrible fright. 

He leaked round, with terror in hie eeun- 
tenance, and, at length, perceived a whole 
troop of wHd animals, resembling, our aheap* 
both in sue and shape, exeenft that on their 
back they bear a small bunco like that ef a 
camel. They are called lamas; their country 
is properly that part of America which belongs 
to the Spaniards, where the natives are aeons* 
tomed to load it, and to use it for a beast ef 
burden, as we do horses, and mules. Of its 
wool they make stuns for cloathing. 

Robinson, seeing these lamas approach, felt 
a desire to eat some roast meat, which he had 
not tasted for a long time. He thought there- 
fore, of killing one of them ; and for that pur- 
pose ha stood close beside the tree, with his 
hatchet of flint in his hand, waiting until the 
beast should perhaps, pass so close to him, that 
he might strike it with his hatchet, 

it happened as he expected. These animals, 
Walking o# without suspicion, passed by wit** 
n? 



S8 NSW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

out dread of danger, dose to. the tree when 
Robinson stood in ambush; and one of the 
smallest of them coming within his. reach, be 
gave it so effectual a stroke on the nape- of 
the neck, -that he laid it dead with the blow. 

Robinson never thought of asking himself 
how he was to dress the flesh of this youfig 
lama, until the moment he had killed it; he 
would have boiled or roasted it with all his 
heart, but he* had neither pot nor spit, and what 
is worse he had no fire, nor yet a flint and 
steel, tinder and matches to light one by; he 
recollected, however, that savages are accus- 
tomed to rub two bits of dry wood one against 
the other, until they take fire. So he took 
up the lama upon his shoulders, and turned 
-bis steps homewards. 

On the way, he made another discovery, 
which afforded him infinite joy. This was a 
number of lemon trees, seven or eight, round 
which, on the ground, he found several ripe 
ones that had fallen. He gathered them up 
carefully, marked the spot where these trees 
grew, and quite happy and content with his 
acquisitions, hastened home to his habitation. 
There his first buisness was to skin the young 
lama. He effected this by means of a sharp 
flint, which served him instead of a knife. 
He stretched the skin in the sun, in order to 
dry it, because he foresaw that it would be of 
service to him in many ways ; his shoes and 
stockings, for instance, began, already, to be 
full of . holes, find he thought that he might 



) 




ROBINSON KILLING A LAMA. 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



30 Jt£W ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

make soles of this skin, and fasten them trades 
his feet, so as not to be obliged to walk quits 
barefooted. Besides, the thoughts of winter 
troubled him not a little, and he was glad that 
he had found a way to furnish himself with fur 
against the seventy of the cold. 

It was true, he might have spared himself 
tins uneasiness ; for, where be now was, and 
in all those countries near the middle parts of 
the earth, there is never any winter. How- ' 
ever, instead of winter, they hare, during two , 
qr three months of the year, incessant rains. 

After he had skinned the lama, taken out, 
its bowels, and cqt off a hind quarter to roast, 
ro> first care was to provide a spit. For this, ' 
he cut down a young slender willow-tree, 
peeled off the rind, and made it sharp at one 
end ; after which, he chose a couple of forked 
branches to bold up the spit. Having cut thess 
of an equal length and sharp at the ends, km 
stack them into the ground, opposite to e*A 
other ; put the joint on the spit, which he tfeea 
kid on the two forked sticks i and great *9* 
bis joy when he sew how well his spit wail 
round* 

He wanted! nothing now but what is mast 
necessary of aB, fire. In order to predict it 
by nibbing, he cut' two pieces of wood fan* # 
dry trunk, ai^d immediately fell to wort. He 
rubbed so briskly that the sweat ran down bm 
face in drops ; but he could not accomplish his 
purpose: for when the wood was heated until 
it smoked, just then he found himself so faU- 



NEW RQBIHSON CRUSOE* 31 

gued, that h* w» tinder an absolute necessity 
to stop a jfew moments and recover his strength ; 
in the mean time, the wood cooled a little, 
md Ha whole labour began* useless. 

After many attempts, be threw ttWay tho 
wood, sat down upon his bed of bay hi a mo- 
knclmly mood, supporting bis head upon bis 
band, and, sighing heavily, cast a look now 
*nd then upon the fine joint of meat which 
was likely now to remain on the* spit without 
roasting. Theft suddenly refecting' what 
would become of hint in winter if be bud no 
fire, be fek some piercing anxiety *t the thought 
that he was obliged to rise precipitately, and 
walk about, in order to breathe more at bis 
ease. 

In the mean time, the sight of hi* meat upon 
the spit made his mouth water ; he recollected, 
at length, to hare heard that the Tartars put 
the meat which they mean to eat under their 
horses' saddles, and so bake it, as it Were at 
full gallop* This, said he to himself, might 
be done as wefl by another method, and bo 
resolved to try. 

No sooner said than dotte^ He went to 
seek two pieces of stone pretty broad and 
smooth, of the same sort as that of which his 
hatchet was m«de. Between these twd stones 
he placed a piece of meat that had no bones, 
and began immediately to strike without m* 
termissiort upon the uppermost stone with hk 
stene mallet. After Ire bad done this for ft*o 
or six minutes, tfc* atone tftgan W #mr he' 



S3 N£W ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

-which made him continue to strike with re* 
doubled activity ; so that in less, than half an 
lour, the meat, partly by the heat, of the stone, 
and partly by the pressure and weight of the 
Wows, was grown quite tender and fit to eat. 
In order to make this meat more savoury, he 
squeezed a little lemon juice upon it, and then 
be made such a meal as he had not made for 
a long time. Neither did he forget to thank, 
irom ^he bottom of his heart, the Author of 
all Goodness for this new benefit. 

When he had made an end of eating, he de- 
bated, in his own mind, what work would be 
the most necessary to set about. The dread 
of winter, which had but a little before afflicted 
him so strongly, made him think of taking or 
Jailing a great number of lamas, to provide 
Jhimself with skins. With this hope he went to 
bed, and found refreshing sleep, which repaid 
him richly for all his fatigues during the day. 
. He slept till it was pretty far in the day. 
He was frightened, when be awoke, to find it 
#0 late, and rising briskly, he was going di- 
rectly to take the field against the lamas ; but 
the weather did not permit him, for it rained 
as hard as it could pour, so that there was no 
possibility of going out. He resolved, there* 
fore, to wait until the shower was over. 
. But there appeared no likelihood of this ; 
on the contrary it grew more violent. It was 
accompanied also with lightning, so bright 
that .his cave; which commonly was pretty 
{lark, seemed to be all in a blaze; and then 



VEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* r 3$ 

the dashes were followed by such daps of 
tliunder as he had never heard. 

Robinson had been ill-instructed in his 
youth. This was the reason why he knew not 
now great an advantage storms are ; how they 
clear the air, and make every thing grow bet* 
ter in the fields and gardens; and how, con- 
sequently, they contribute to refresh both men 
< and animals, trees and plants. 

During the storm, he sat in a corner of his 
cave, with his hands clasped together, and op- 
pressed with most dreadful anxiety* The 
rain, meanwhile, ran down in streams, the 
lightning flashed, and the thunder roared in- 
cessantly. It was almost noon-day, and the vio- 
lence of the storm had not, in the least abated* 
He was not hungry; his terror had entirely 
taken away his appetite; but his imagination 
was disquieted with the roost frightful ideas. 

While he sat ttyus desponding, overwhelmed 
with trouble and disquiet, the storm, at length, 
began to abate. He thought he should now 
he able to set out on his expedition againsjt 
the lamas, and was going to take his hatchet 
and his bag, when, exactly over his head, there 
burst the most terrible noise imaginable; the 
earth trembled, and Robinson was thrown back- 
wards, and fell like a dead man. The light- 
ning had struck against the tree which grew on 
the top of the cave, and shattered it all in 
pieces, with a sound so tremendous that poor 
Robinson thought, the mountain was falling 
on him. 



SI XKW KOBIKSQN CJttJSOX* 

He remained en the* ground a considerable 
time before he recovered bis senses. At length 
he rose up, and the first object that he beheld 
before the door of bis cave was part of the 
tree which the lightning had torn in pieces* 
.and thrown down. A fresh misfortune for 
Robinson! How he was now to fasten hie 
ladder of ropes, if the whole tree was broken 
down, as he thought it was. 

As the rain had now totally ceased, and 
the thunder was no longer heard, he took 
courage, at Jast, to go out; and saw what, in 
a moment, nHed htm with gratitude and lore 
towards his Creator. The trunk of die tree 
which bad been struck by the lightning was 
aft on fire ; and thus Robinson found himself; 
'in a moment, master of that which he had most 
wanted* Full of inexpressible feelings of joy 
and gratitude, therefore, he lifted up his hands, 
towards Heaven, and, shedding a flood of 
tears, he thanked the Father of Mercies, who, 
even when he permits the most terrifying 
events to take place, acts ever for the wisest 
and most charitable reasons. 

As the fire had not reached the lower part 
of the tree, to which the ladder of ropes was 
fastened, he could mount in perfect security. 
He did so, took a burning splinter of the tree, 
descended again into the inclosure before his 
cave, kindled a good fire under his meat, and 
then climbed up once more to put out that 
which was still burning in the trunk of the tree* 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



KXW KOBUfaOV CRtTtDC S$ 

And now he set about pemnnsng the duty 
of a cook. He tended the ire and tamed the 
spit very earerully. The tight of the fire re* 
joked him infinitely; he belied upon k is i 
precious gift winch Gob bed seat him, and 
jdurittg the rest of hie life, as often as be saw 
or thought of ire, he never failed to say within 
Jransekv " ZTkaemfoGadprneme." 

His meat was now done ; the joy sssth winch 
I* cut off a shoe, and put the fiat bit into has 
mouth, cannot be described, but by one, who, 
like him, should have almost given np the 
topes of ever tasting any such again. 

Though it had rained very hard, the ground 
voder this huge piece of the rock was per- 
fectly dry. Bobinsen saw, that this spot would 
answer every purpose of a fire-place, being 
completely sheltered from ail accidents; he 
saw, moreover, that it would seauire no great 
trouble te make a proper kitchen under the 
atone, together with hearth and chimney, and 
tbesefefe resolved to go Immediately to work 
about it. 

With his spade he hoHowed she ground 
tnwter the great stone about a yard deep- 
After tint, he conceived the idea of enclosing 
4Mb ground, at die side, with two small walk 
Teaching up to the stone itself. 

He had amongst other things, observed a . 
particular sort of clay in one part of his island 
"which had seemed to him fit lor making good 
bricks-; be took his spade, theremna, and his 
knife of lint, and repaired to the apet where 



36 NEW ROBINSON CUVSOt. 

this clay was to be found, in order to' set 
about the work without delay. 

The heavy rain had made the clay so soft, thai 
he found no difficulty in shaping h to the form 
of bricks, and cutting it smooth with his knife. 
After preparing a number of these bricks 
in a short time, he placed them beside each 
other, in a spot where the sun shone all day. 
He determined to go on with this work the 
mex% day, and in the mean time returned home 
to eat the rest of his roast meat, the eagerness 
"with which he had worked having sharpened 
his appetite. That he might regale himself on 
such a day of rejoicing as the present, he in- 
dulged himself by adding to his supper a ,cocoa» 
nut from the small number of those that still 
remained* 

The repast was excellent. " Ah !" said 
Robinson, sighing from the bottom of his 
heart, " how happy should I be, if I had one 
friend, to bear me company; had I, at least 
the happiness of being master of some tame 
animal, a dog or cat, to whom I might show 
Irindness hi order to gain its affection ! but to 
live thus solitary, absolutely cut off from every 
living creature, and as if I were the only being 
upon earth !" With these words he turned hit 
eyes accidentally towards the entrance .of bis 
• little lodge, and perceived a spider which had 
spread its web in a corner. The thought of 
lying under the same roof with some living 
creature so filled him with joy, that he did not 
trouble himself in the least about the species 



NEW ROBIKSOK CRUSOE. ST 

of the animal. He resolved therefore to make 
it tame if it was possible. 

As it was still day, and the air, freshened 
by the storm, was extremely agreeable, Itobin- 
#on did not clnise to go to bed yet, and 
that Ire might eniploy the thne usefully, h& 
took up his spade again, and began to hollow 
out the ground for his kitchen. In doing 
this, he struck all at once upon something hard 
that was in the earth, and was very near break- 
ing Ms spade. He took it at first for a stone, 
hut what was his astonishment, when having 
drawn out a great heavy lump of something, 
he discovered it to he pure gold. This mass 4 
of gold was so thick, that, had it been coined, 
it would have produced upwards of one hun- 
dred pounds. But it was altogether useless 
hi a place where there was nobody who had any 
thing to sell; so that instead of rejoicing for 
the treasure that he had found, he kicked it 
from him with contempt, and said, " Lie there 
useless metal, which men in general, covet so 
greedily, and to procure which, they commit 
so many base actions and even crimes! How 
willingly would I give thee for a handful of 
iron nails, or for some useftd instrument!— 
He left, therefore, all this precious treasure 
lying neglected on the ground, and afterwards, 
as he passed by, scarcely thought it worth a look. 

As the heat was excessive during the day 
time, he was obliged to work very early in the 
morning, or else in the cool of the evening. 
He rose, therefore, before the sun, put ficbh 

G 



98 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

wood til his fire, and eat the half of a cocoa-nut 
that he nad left since the evening before. After 
this he intended to have put another joint of 
his lama on the spit; but he found the flesh 
already tainted by the extraordinary heat. 
He was therefore, obliged to go without the 
pleasure of eating meat for that day. 

Upon this, he prepared to set out for the 
day-pit; and, putting on his pouch, he found 
still remaining in it the Potatoes which he had 
brought home two days before. These he re- 
solved to dress, so put them down close by his 
fire, and having covered them with hot ashes,, 
he set out. 

He worked so hard, that before twelve 
o'clock he had prepared as many bricks as he 
thought he should have occasion for, to com- 
plete the wall of his kitchen. He next went 
down to the beach to look for some oysters ; 
but instead of these, he discovered, to his great 
joy, a turtle, and so large, that it weighed^ 
above lOOlbs. Accordingly he loaded his 
shoulders with his prize, and marched slowly 
homewards. When he arrived at his cell, his! 
first care was to come at the flesh of the turtle, 
which he did, at length, by cutting open with 
hjs hatchet, the lower shell that covered its 
belly ; he then killed it, and cut off a good 
part of it to roast, which, having fixed upon 
the spit, he waited with impatience until it 
was done, for his work had considerably 
sharpened his appetite. 

* 




ROBINSON CRUSOE CARRYING A TURTLE. 
C2 



Digitized by LiOOQ 1C 



40 NEW HOBINSON CRUSOE. 

j labile he turned the spit, he considered 
With himself what he must do with the rest of 
t|e turtle* to keep it from tainting. 

' It filled Jjim with concern to think that all 
ttat fine turtle, the flesh of which would nou- 
rish him more than a week, must be unfit to 
eat the next day; and yet he could not think 
of any expedient to save it. AH at once a 
thought struck him. fhe upper shell of the 
tmrtle was shaped- like a large bowl " That," 
said he, ". sfeail serve me for a trough to salt it 
it — but where i$ the saft?** 

" Only think, what a great fool I must be !" 
cried he/ striking hie hand against ins head ; 
" Cannot I steep th» meat in sea watet, 
and will not it have the same elfeet, or nearly 
so, thai; Brine would hare? A lucky thought' 
cried he; and his joy made hi* turn the spit 
twice as. fast as before. 

His turtle was now nicely done. "Afc!"' 
said Robinson, sighing, after he had tasked a 
small bit of it which he thought very sarotpy, 
" if one had the least morsel of bread with 
this ! in my youth I was seldom contented if 
my bread waa not loaded with butter. But 
now, how happy should I be with a piece of 
the blackest rye bread that ever was made. 

While he was taken up with these reflec- 
tions he recollected what he had left in the 
ashes before he went out in the morning— 
" Let me see" said he, " if my potatoes are 
done ;" and he took up one of them, . and 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41 

found it 90 excellent that he no longer fek 
the want of bread. 

After a hearty meal, he threw himself on the 
bed for a while, to consider what he should 
begin when the violence of the heat was over. 

What piece of work," said he, " should 
I undertake at present ? The sun must harden 
my bricks before I can begin my wall. The 
bekt way then certainly, will be to go and kill 
a couple of lamas.— But what am I to do with 
such a quantity of meat!— What if I should 
hang up some of it to dry in the smoke of my 
kitchen? — Excellent!" cried he; and with 
these words he started from his bed, and sat 
down to deliberate on the means of succeeding 
in this plan. 

He presently saw that the thing might be 
done Well enough. He had only to leave two 
holes in the walls that he was to build, and 
through diem to run a large stick across. It 
was an easy matter to hang bis hams and 
Pitches upon this, and the smoke of the chim- 
ney would do the rest. What would he hare 
given that his bricks were already bard enough, 
that he might begin that very moment! But 
there was no help for it; he must be content 
to wait. 

Something, however, must be done to 
employ the time. He resolved, in order that 
he might have company, and at the same time 
provide for his subsistence, to bring up some 
lamas, and as they appeared already to be 

«■» O Digitized by VnO 



42 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 

extremely tame he hoped to succeed in taking 
a couple of them alive. 

It was certainly very difficult to catch them. 
But where an undertaking is not impossible^ 
man needs but to work seriously, and nothing 
is too great to his understanding and industry ; 
so great and manifold are the faculties with 
which our good Creator hath endowed us ! 

Attend to this, and let us never despair^ff 
success in any practicable labour whatsoeSr, 
provided we take the firm resolution of lot 
giving over until we have accomplished it— 
Unwearied application has often brought en- 
terprises to a period which were at first deem- 
ed impracticable. Never, therefore, let us 
suffer oaftelves to be discouraged by the diffi- 
culties which we may meet with in the affairs 
of life; but always reflect, that the more ex? 
ertion it has cost to bring a business to a hap- 
py issue, the more joy one feels at having 
accomplished it. 

Robinson soon hit upon a method to take 
the lamas alive, and this was, to make a noose 
upon a cord, and, hiding himself behind a tree, 
to throw the noose over the head of the first 
Jama that should approach. In a few hours the 
cord and the noose being completed: he made 
a trial or two to see whether the noose would 
catch well, and it answered perfectly to his wish. 

The place by which the lamas were accus- 
tomed to pass, in their way to the water, was 
pretty far off, and because he was not sure 
whether they would pass by there that evening, 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 43 

a* it was about noon' that he saw them go to? 
drink before, he put off till next day, the execu- 
tion of his project ; in the mean time, he made 
the preparations requisite for the journey. 

That is to say, he went to the spot where 
the potatoes grew, and filled his bag with them. 
Part of them he put down in the warm ashes 
to roast, and the rest he threw in a corner 
of his cave for a future store. In the next 
place, he cut off a pretty large piece of his 
turtle to serve for supper and the next morn- 
ing's breakfast, and steeped what remained in 
sea water, with which he had filled his turtle 
shell. For the rest of the afternoon he in- 
dulged himself with an agreeable walk along 
the sea side, where there blew a fine fresh 
easterly breeze, which rendered the air agree- 
ably cool. He turned his eyes fondly towards 
the part of the world where his dear country 
was situated, and a few trembling tears trickled 
down his cheeks at the remembrance of his 
beloved parents. 

"Oh! my dearest, best of fathers! my 
tender, affectionate mother! pardon, ah, par- 
don your unhappy son for thus afflicting you! 
And thou, O Heavenly Father, at present my 
only father, my only society, my only sup- 
port and protector! — (here he threw himself 
upon his knees in the posture of adoration) 
shed, tby most precious blessings upon my 
dear parents, whom I have so grievously offend- 
ed, and thus console them for their sufferings." 

He remained a little longer on his knees, 



44 new $obinso*f cnusos. 

looking up to Heaven in silent grief and his 
eyes swimming in tears'. At length he rose, 
and with his knife of flint, he cut out upon 
the tender hark of a tree that was at band, the 
much-loved names of his parents. Oyer them 
he placed these words, " God bless you !" 
and below, " Mercy to your lost son !'' After 
that, his lips kissed the names which he had 
cut out, and he bedewed them with his tears? 

While Robinson walked backwards and for- 
wards on the beach, it occurred to him that 
he would do well to bathe himself. He there- 
fore took off his clothes ; but how was he ter- 
rified on seeing the condition of bis shirt, the 
only one be had 1 As be bad worn it for so 
long a time, and in so hot a climate, one .could 
scarcely perceive that • the Hnen had ever been 
white. Wherefore, before he bathed himself, 
be took care to wash this shirt as well as pos- 
sible, and, having hung it upon a tree to dry, 
he jumped into the water. 

He had learned to swim pretty early, so 
that being perfectly master of the exercise, 
he amused himself with swimming out towards 
a neck of land that extended pretty far into 
the sea, and upon which he bad never- been yet. 
This thought was a happy one, for he found 
that the neck of land was during the time of 
high water, entirely covered, and that, on the 
ebbing' of the tide, a considerable quantity of 
turtles, oysters, and muscles, were left behind. 

Satisfied with these discoveries he came out 
rf the water, aftev baring beet a fall hour in 



HEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

If, The heat of the sun* had entirely dried his 
shirt, and he had the pleasure once more of 
putting on dean linen. 

Robinson rose the next morning early, and 
prepared for the chace. He furnished his 
pouch with plenty of roasted potatoes, and a 
good large slice of roasted turtle. Next he 
slung his hatchet by his side, tied the cord, 
which he had made the day before for catching 
the lamas, round his waist, took his umbrella 
in his hand, and began his march. 

It was very early; he resolved therefore, 
for this time, to take a round, in order to make 
himself acquainted with some other parts of hi* 
island. Amongst the numbers of various birds 
that fluttered about the trees, he remarked 
some parrots, the colours of whose plumage 
were very beautiful. How did he wish to hare 
one of them that he might fame it, to be his 
companion ! But the old ones were too cun- 
ning to be caught, and he could no where 
discover a nest with young ones. 

In return ffor this disappointment, he dis- 
covered, in the course of his walk, a thing 
much more necessary to him than a parrot; 
for, getting to the top of a hill near the sea-side, 
and looking down between the cracks of the 
rock, he saw something lie on the ground which 
excited his curiosity. He let himself down by 
the assistance of his feet and hands, and found 
to his great satisfaction, that it was salt. 

Hitherto he had, it is tru4, in some respect, 
supplied the want of salt with sea-water, h«* 
c 4j 



46 NEW ROBINSON CRU80B. 

after all, that was not salt. Hie sea-water hat 
a bitter taste which is very/ disagreeable ; and 
besides, it was a mistake to think that meat 
salted in this manner would keep, because sea- 
water, as well as that of a spring or river, 
grows stinking alter it has stood, some time. 
It was therefore, a very happy event that he 
found some real salt, and he filled both his 
pockets with it, in order to supply himself 
with a stock for immediate use. 

Robinson went in high spirits to the place 
where he hoped to noose a lama. When he 
came there, he saw none; but then it was not 
quite noon. He sat down, therefore, at the 
foot of a tree to regale himself with his roasted 
turtle and potatoes. How much more savoury 
did they taste to him now that he had a little 
salt to eat with them ! 

Just as he had finished his meal, the lamas 
appealed at a distance, coming towards him, 
with skips and bounds. Robinson' quickly 
placed himself in a posture of attack, and 
waited with his noose ready for the approach 
of one of the lamas. Several had passed him 
beyond his reach ; but all at once, there came up 
one so near to him, that he scarcely needed more 
than to drop the noose to have him fast in it. 
He did so, and the lama immediately became 
his prisoner. The poor beast would have 
bleated, but lest that should frighten the Vest, 
Robinson pulled the noose so tight, that the 
lama was completely silenced. 

»q1c 



HEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 47 

. It was a female, and had two young ones, 
which followed her, to the great satisfaction 
of Robinson, and did not appear to be in the- 
least afraid of him. 

Accordingly he dragged the creature along 
with all his strength, though she jumped and 
skipped a good deal to get from him, and the 
two little ones followed quietly behind. The' 
shortest way was now the best for Robinson, 
and pursuing that, he at length arrived happily 
at his dwelling-place. 

But here he started a difficulty. How was- 
he to get the lama into his inclosure, which, as 
we have said before, was so strongly barricaded , 
all ronnd? He resolved, therefore to make 
up' a little stable near his place of abode,, and 
there to keep the lama and her young ones, 
until he should be able to suit his conveniency 
better. • 

• In the mean time, he fastened the animal 
to a tree, and immediately fell to work ; that 
is to say, he cut. down with his hatchet of flint 
a number of young trees, and fixed them in the* 
ground, so close, one beside the other, that 
they formed a pretty strong wall. While this 
was doing, the lama lay down through weariness? 
and the little ones, no way troubled at their* 
being prisoners, were suckling quite unconcerned, 
and feasting themselves at their ease. 

What a pleasing sight was this to Robinson ! 
Above a dozen times he stopped from his 
work to look at the pretty little creatures, 
and thought himself beyond measure happy in 



4S KBW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 

baring tome animated being* to bear him 
company. From this moment, hk life seemed 
no longer solitary, and the joy which he felt 
from this reflection, gave him such strength 
, and activity* that his stable was very soon 
finished ; he then put the lama and her young 
ones into it, and closed up the bat opening 
with branches firmly interwoven. 

There wanted still one thing to complete 
his happiness : he wished to be in the same in- 
closure with his dear lamas, that he might have 
them always before his eyes when he was at 
home, and enjoy the satisfaction of seeing 
them grow fond of his company. 

He puzzled himself a long time to find hoar 
he should accomplish this: at length his de« 
termination was to break down one side of hia 
wall of trees, and to make another wall that 
would take in a larger space. But in order 
to be secure from all accidents while be was 
working at his new hedge, he prudently re* 
solved not to break the old wall until he had 
finished the new. Thanks to hk indefati- 
gable pains, the work was finished in a few 
days, and then Robinson had the satisfaction 
of being in the same habitation with his three 
domestic companions. 

The lama also and its young ones sooa grew 
food of his society. As often as he returned 
home, they came jumping to meet ban; 
they would smell: about him to find whether 
he» had brought them any thing, and gratefully 
Hek his hand whenever he gave them fresh 



VBW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

gitas or young branches to eat. After tins, 
ha weaned the young ones, and then began to 
milk the dam regularly morning and evening. 
Hit cocoa-nut shells served him for pails and 
jmiik-paoe, and this milk which he used partly 
sweet and partly curdled, contributed not a 
little, by its agreeable taste and nourishing 
quality, to render his solitary life still more 
tolerable. 

By this time, his bricks were hard enough 
lor use. He looked, therefore, for some 
chalky earth, with which, instead of lime, he 
intended tp make mortar for his wall; and he 
found some. In the next place, he make him- 
self a trowel of a flat stone, and, being resolved 
to have every thing complete that belongs to a 
bricklayer, he went so far as even to make a 
square and a plummet, as perfect as he could. 

Having, therefore, finished all the prepara- 
tives necessary for his brickwork he made his 
lama bring home the bricks that he had occa- 
sion for; having by dint of' great perseverance 
and industry, made & couple of wicker paniers 
into which he put them. 

He then fell to his building, in which he suc- 
ceeded tolerably well. He had now raised one 
of Uhe side walls 4 of his kitchen, and laid the 
foundation of the other, when all of a sudden* 
there happened something which terribly dis- 
appointed all his plans. 

It was night, Robinson was quietly stretched 
asleep on Ins bed of dry grass, with his faith- 
ful lamas at his feet. A deep calm overspread 
the face of nature, when, ail lit once* the earth 



50 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 

shook in an uncommon manner, and a rumb- 
ling noise was heard, together with dreadful 
cracks, as if many storms had burst forth all' 
at once. Robinson started up in a fright, and 
jumped out of bed without knowing what was 
the matter nor where he was going. At this 
moment happened a dreadful shock of the 
earth, which was succeeded by several others 
equally violent. The rumbling noise also con- 
tinued, which seemed to come from under 
ground. At the same time, arose a furious 
hurricane, which tore up trees, and even rocks, 
and agitated the very depths of the sea. — 
Robinson, almost frantic with terror, ran out 
of his cave into the space before it, and the 
frightened lamas followed. Scarcely were they 
out, when a piece of the rock, which rested 
over the cave*, fell down upon the bed which ; 
Robinson had just left. Fear, now, lent him 
wings; he fled with precipitation through the 
small opening in his wall of trees, and the 
lamas, no less terrified, were close at his heels. 

His first intention was to secure himself 
upon a neighbouring mountain, on the top of 
which was a plain, perfectly open that he might 
not be in danger of the falling trees. He was* 
going to run thither, when suddenly he beheld 
to his infinite terror and surprise, that very 
same spot of mountain open with a huge gap, 
and vomit forth smoke, fire, cinders, stones, 
and a burning stream of melted stones, which 
is called lava. He could scarcely teU which 
way to run from this dreadful eruption, as the 



NEW IIOBINSON CRUSOft. 51 

burning lava tolled down the hill like a river, 
and great fragments of rocks were hurled into 
the air, in every direction, and fell as thick 
as hail. 

He ran towards the sea-side; but here he 
beheld a new scene no less terrible. A dread- 
ful whirlwind, which blew from all quarters 
of the sky, had driven together a Targe quan- 
tity of clouds, and heaped them as it were, 
one upon the other'. Their own weight burst 
them at length, and the consequence was such 
a deluge of rain, as soon laid the whole coun- 
try under water. 

Robinson saved himself with difficulty by 
climbing up a tree ; but his poor lamas were 
carried 6~fF by the violence of the flood. Ah ! 
how it went to his heart to hear their plaintive 
bleating; and how willingly would he, at the 
risk of his own life, have endeavoured to save 
them, but the rapidity of the torrent had already 
carried them far beyond his reach ! 

The earth continued to shake still for a few 
minutes, after which there fell, all at once, a 
dead calm. The winds subsided; the opening 
of the mountain ceased by degrees to vomit 
fire; the rumbling under ground was heard no 
more; the sky cleared up, and all the waters 
ran off in a very short time into the sea. 

At length the day appeared, and found poor 
Robinson still mounted on the tree, in a situ- 
ation truly deplorable. Sleep had never 
closed his eyelids; one gloomy thought alone 
absorbed his whole soul ; he had asked himself 



&% it£W ROSIN0ON GRUS0Z. 

the sorrowful question, " what will become of 
me ? M At length he set himself in motion, and 
staggering as he walked, like a man who was 
half asleep, he arrived, after some time, at the 
ruins of his habitation. But what joyful emo- 
tions filled his breast, when, all at once, as he 
came up towards the willow indosure — hit) 
dear lamas, safe and sound, came jumping to 
meet him ! At first he could not believe his 
eyes, but his doubts were soon satisfied. The 
lamas ran up to him, licked his hands, and ex- 
pressed their joy at seeing him again by bleating 
and skipping about. 

Robinson's heart, which had seemed insen- 
sible and frozen, was now awakened. He 
looked at his lamas, then up to heaven; and 
tears of joy, gratitude; and repentance for his 
want of faith, bedewed his cheeks. 

The flood had carried them, as he supposed 
to some rising ground, where the' waters were 
not quite so deep, and as they ran off after* 
wards as rapidly as they had fallen from the 
clouds, the lamas were very soon able to return 
to their habitation. 

Robinson then stood in the front of his cave, 
and, to add to his confusion, found the damage 
here also by no means so considerable as, in the 
height of his despondency, he imagined it* 
The ceiling, which consisted of one piece of 
rock, had it is true, tumbled down, and hi its 
fail brought some of the nearest earth along 
with it j yet, after all, it appeared not impos- 
sible to clew the cave of these ruins, and then 



3$W ROBINSON CRUSOE. 53 

bjb dwelling-place became twice as spacious 
jmd convenient as it was before. 

Uobinson, who for some time past, had used 
the custom of joining prayer with his labour, be- 
gan by throwing himself on his knees to thank 
God for his late deliverance; after which, he 
cheerfully set about his work, which was to 
clear his cave of the ruins. It was but a slight 
task to remove the earth and gravel, but there 
remained still the great piece of rock, which 
had been under all. It is true, it was broken in 
two: but even in this state it seemed to re- 
quire more than the strength of one man to 
dislodge it. He tried to roll out the smaller 
of the two pieces, but in vain: the task was 
too much for his strength. An attempt so far 
from succeeding, discouraged him once more. 
He recollected, however, that when be was 
young he had sometimes seen workmen make 
use pf an instrument called a lever, when they 
wanted to move very heavy loads, and he hast- 
ened to make a trial of it. This succeeded 
with him. In half an hour he rolled the two 
pieces of stone quite out of the cave, which 
four men, with their hands alone, could not 
have stirred from their places: and then he 
had the satisfaction of seeing his dwelling 
twice as spacious as before, and what was of 
infinitely more consequence, quite secure as 
far as the eye could examine; for now both 
the walls and the ceiling consisted of one 
rockt in which there could no where be dis- 
covered the smallest crack. o g 



54 KEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Having accomplished this design, he began 
again to work upon his kitchen. Here also 
the terrible convulsion of nature which had just 
happened, was the means of procuring him 
a great advantage; for, the burning mountain 
had amongst other things, thrown up a consi- 
derable quantity of lime-stones. These are 
commonly burnt in a kiln before lime can be 
made of them ; but here that was not neces- 
sary, for the burning mountain had already 
been as good as a time-kiln to them. , Robinson, 
therefore, had only to gather a small heap of 
these stones, to throw water upon them, and 
then to stir the heap well about. Thus the 
lime was slaked, and made proper for the 
mason's use. He then mixed with it a little 
sand, fell to work immediately, and had reason 
to be pleased with his own cleverness. 

In the mean time, the mountain had ceased 
smoking, *and Robinson having ventured to 
approach the gulf, had reason to hope that the 
under-ground fire, which had caused the earth- 
quake, was entirely extinguished. 

This hope having given him fresh strength 
and spirits, he turned his thoughts towards 
laying in a store of provisions against the 
winter. With this intent, he caught one after 
another, eight lamas, in the same manner as he 
had caught the first. All these he killed, and 
hung up the greatest part of the flesh in his 
kitchen to smoke. He would have taken 
more lamas, but he found this method would 
no longer answer; for the creatures had, at 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55 

length, taken notice of his manner of noos- 
ing them, and were therefore, on their guard; 
bo that he was obliged to invent some new way 
of catching them. 

This way he soon found: so many are the 
resources of the human mind, if properly ex- 
erted, in providing for its wants. He had 
observed, that the lamas, whenever they per- 
ceived him near the spring, ran swiftly towards 
a neighbouring coppice. The farther side of 
which was hedged as it were, with small 
thickets; and close behind this hedge, there 
was a descent as steep as a wall, and about a 
couple of yards deep. The lamas, in their 
flight, always jumped clean over the hedge; 
and this observation determined him to dig a 
deep hole in this spot, where the lamas jump- 
ed down, that they might mil into it, and be 
taken. His indefatigable labour finished in 
a day and a half this new work pf his invention. 
The pit he covered over with green branches, 
and, next day had the satisfaction of seeing 
two tolerably large lamas taken in it. 

There now remained three things more, 
which done, he was to count himself fully 
guarded and provided against the approach of 
winter: hay \q|g to be made for his lamas; a 
stock of wood to be laid up for firing; and 
all his potatoes were to be dug up, and lodged 
in the cellar. 

Hay he had collected in a pretty large quan- 
tity, and stacked it up in his court-yard, as 
haymakers do, and whenever he put fresh hay 



59 Kew aobinso£ chusoe* 

ou it, he trod it dawn so hard, that the rain 
could not easily soak into it. But her* ex- 
perience taught him a little more of haymak- 
ing, though at the expense of some labour 
and trouble. He bad not taken care to dry the 
hay perfectly. Whenever this happens, and 
it is, at the same time, pressed down tightly in 
the stack* it begins to heat, next to smoke, 
and at length it takes fire. This was a mat* 
ter that Robinson had never heard of when he 
was young. His surprise therefore was great, 
when he saw, all of a sudden his hay cock be- 
gin to smoke; but he was still much more 
astonished, when, on thrusting his hand in** 
it, he found the inside burning hot. He could 
not persuade himself but that the hay was on. 
fire, though he could not possibly conceive 
how the fire could get in there. 

He took- down the haycock, therefore, aft 
fast as possible; but was very much surprised 
to find no fire, and to see that the hay was 
every where extremely hot and moist. He 
then dried his hay afresh, and made it up into 
a fresh haycock, which could stand secure 
against both wind and rain. To render it still 
more secure, he topped it with a covering of 
reeds, scarcely inferior in fonness to omt 
thatch roofs. 

For some days following, he employed him- 
self in gathering as much dry wood as he 
judged be should want. After this, he dug up 
his potatoes, and found them a very consider- 
able stock. These he laid up carefully in his 



NfcW ROBINSON CRUSOE, 57 

ecBar. Lastly, he shook the lemon tree and 
brought home as many of the fruit as were 
ripe, to preserve them too against the winter; 
and now he was freed from all apprehensions 
of want during the cold weather. 

But though it was almost the end of Octo- 
ber, the cold was not to be felt in the least. In- 
stead of that, the weather turned to rain and it 
rained so incessantly, thai the, air seemed to be 
changed into water. For a fortnight together, 
lie never put his foot outside of his cave unless 
to go to the haystack, or the spring, to fetch 
victuals and water for himself and his lamas. 
The rest of t^ie tune he was obliged to pass 
<like a prisoner. 

How heavily the hours crept on! Nothing 
to do, and sJ\ alone ! It is impossible to ima- 
gine a greater misery. If any body could 
have given him a book, or pen ink and paper, 
be would have thought it the greatest gift that 
£ould be bestowed on him. " OW' said he now 
mid then to himself, with a heavy sigh, " how 
gilly was I in my younger days, to look upon 
reading and writing as something tiresome, 
and idleness as something agreeable ! The 
most tedious book in the world would now he 
a treasure to me, and I should prefer a sheet 
of paper with fkn and ink, to the possession 
of a large sum of money. 

During this wearisome time, necessity forced 
him to have recourse to all sorts of em- 
ployments which he had not hitherto tried. 
He had been meditating a long time whether 



58 KJEW KOBINSON CRUSOE* 

it would not be possible for bim to make an, 
earthen pot and lamp ; things which would 
have rendered his situation incomparably bet- 
ter. — He ran, therefore, in the middle of the 
ram, to look for earth; and, having found a, 
sufficient quantity of it, he immediately began 
to work. 

, The making of earthen vessels did not suc- 
ceed with him all at once : but having nothing 
else to do, as often as his work was finished, 
and not to his liking, he amused himself with 
breaking it to pieces, and beginning afresh*. 
He spent a few days in this manner, his work 
affording him amusement rather than trouble, 
until at length, his pot and lamp were finished 
so complete, that it would have been wanton- 
ness to break them again. He placed them, 
therefore, in his kitchen not far from the; fire, 
to dry gradually. After this, he went on 
making other pots, pans, and pipkins, of diffe- 
rent shapes anjf sizes; and the more he prac- 
tised this work, the more ready he became 
at it. 

The rain continued, in the mean time, 
without interruption. Robinson, therefore, 
saw himself under the necessity of inventing 
other domestic labours to keep himself from 
the unpleasant effects of havinjpiothing to do. 
His first task was to try whether he could not 
make a bow and arrows. With a bow and 
arrows he could kill lamas, he could shoot 
birds, and — what was by far more important — 
with these he could defend himself in his. 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 59 

dwelling-place, if ever the savages came to 
attack him. He was all impatience to see the 
bow finished, and ran, notwithstanding the 
rain and the wind, to look for the proper wood. 

Having, therefore, found and cut a piece of 
wood, at once hard and supple, he carried it 
home, and began immediately to work upon 
it. But, alas ! how did he then feel the want 
of a proper knife ! He was obliged to cut 
twenty times to bring off as much wood as we 
could cut at once with a knife of steel. Though 
he worked from the rising to the setting of 
the sun at this task with little intermission, 
he was eight whole days about it. 

And now he wanted nothing but a string 
and arrows. If he had thought of it when he 
killed the lamas, he would have tried to make 
strings of their guts ; for he knew that, in Eu- 
rope, it is common to make them of sheep's 
guts. For want, therefore, of catgut, he twist- 
ed a string of packthread, and made it as 
strong as possible. After this, he proceeded 
to make his arrows. 

What would he have given for a small piece 
of iron to point his arrows with ! But wishing 
was to no purpose. As he stood at the door 
of his cave, considering how he might supply 
the want of iron points to his arrows, his eyes 
fell on the lump of gold, which lay there still 
oil the ground, as a thing of no use. " Go," 
said he, spurning it with his foot, " go 9 useless 
metal, you are not of so much value to me as 
a few twelve-penny nails* 

Digitized by VJOOQ IC 



<K> NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

By dint of thinking on the subject, over 
And over again, he, at length, remembered to 
have heard that the savages of some nations 
make use of fish-bones and sharp stones tp 
point their lances and arrows ; and he resolved 
to imitate them in this respect : at the same 
time, he formed the design of making a lance 
or spear. 

These two things were immediately put 
into execution. He ran to the sea-side, and, 
after a long search, found some fish-bones and 
sharp flints such as he wanted. After this, 
lie cut a long straight staff, for the spear, 
and returned home wet to' the very 6kin. 

In a few days, the spear and the arrows 
were finished. He had pointed the spear with 
a sharp stone, and the arrows with strong fish- 
bones; and, to make them fly the better, to 
the otner end of his arrows he tied the feathers 1 
of a dead bird, which he found in one of his 
walks. 

His earthen pots and his lamp seemed now 
to be sufficiently dry. He resolved, therefore, 
to make use of them. In the first place, he 
put into one of his new pipkins a lump of fat, 
this he intended to melt, and use as oil for his 
lamp. But he had the mortification to per- 
ceive that, as soon as melted, it soaked 
through the pipkin, and filtered out, drop by 
drop, so that very little remained in the pipkin. 

What a disagreeable circumstance ! He had 
made himself so happy in thinking that he 
should soon spend the evenings by the light 

* Digitized by V&OOQle 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. -fel 

of a lamp, and be able, once more, to taste a 
dish of broth ; but now all these fine hopes 
seemed to vanish in a moment 

He sat down, therefore in his studying cor- 
ner (for so he called one of the corners of his 
cave) and there he rubbed his forehead. — 
" Whence comes it," said he to himself, " tha€ 
earthen pots in Europe are much more com-> 
pact, and do not soak through? Why, that is 
because they are glazed — Hum ! Glazed ? — ■ 
How is that done? — Aha! I think I know 
now! Have not I read somewhere, that sand 
and several other substances, are of the nature 
of glass, and might be turned into real glass by 
a strong fire ? It must certainly be so that they 
manage it: they put the earthenware into a 
hot furnace, and when it begins to melt, they 
take it out lest it should be entirely changed 
into glass. Yes, yes, that is the whole art.- 
I must do in the same manner." No sooner * 
said than done: he kindled a good fire in his 
kitchen, and, when it was in full blaze, he put 
one of the pipkins into the very middle of it. 
However, it was not k>ng there before-— crack 
it went, and split in pieces — " Heyday !" said ' 
Robinson, " who would have thought it ?" 
' He sat down again in his studying corner. 
a What could have been the reason of this?" 
said he to himself. " Have I ever met with ' 
any thing similar to this before?— Eh? cer- 
tainly I have. In winter time, when we put 
a tumbler of. cold water on a warm stove, did ; 
not the glass break immediately? Has it efev > 

D 



$% >fEW ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

happened that the glass did not break? Yes> 
when it was put on the stove before it wa* 
quite hot, or when we put a piece of paper 
under it. Very well : I must take care not 
to put it upon the fire all at once, but to let 
It grow warm first. A bright thought !" cried 
he, quite overjoyed, and starting up to make 
s second trial. 

This succeeded rather better. The pipkin 
did not split ; but, then, on the other baud, it 
was not glazed neither. 

" How comes this ?" said Robinson to him* 
self, " And yet J thought the fire was hot 
enough. What can it possibly want still? 
After meditating a long time upon the matter, 
he thought, at tength, he had hit upon the 
reason. He had made the experiment with a 
Jftre that was not closed up in a stove or oven, 
but burned in the open air. He, therefore, 
determined to construct a proper oven or fur- 
nace like those in the potteries; but for this 
it was requisite that the weather should be 
more favourable. 

For it rained still incessantly; nor did the 
sky, at last, begin to clear up till after the 
expiration of two months. Robinson thought 
now that the winter was going to set in; 
whereas, behold the winter was past ! He could 
scarcely believe his eyes, when he saw every 
appearance of spring — the grass green and 
tender, the trees budding out and blossoming, 
nod fresh flowers beginning every where to 
blow; and yet it really was so. The thing 



NEW ROBINSOK CRUSO&. 6S 

beyond his comprehension, though he saw 
it clearly before his eyes. " This will be a 
warning to me," said he, " never to deny any 
thing hastily that I do not understand." 

Robinson might now be said to have made 
himself tolerably comfortable: he has potatoes, 
meat, salt, lemons, fish, turtle, oysters, and as 
the lamas give him milk, he can also make 
butter* He has a bow and arrows, and a spear, 
and a snug place to live in: but there were 
still many things that he wanted; he wanted 
those blessings without which there can be no 
true happiness here below, as society, friends, 
whom he might love, and by whom he might 
be, in his turn, beloved. Try, my little friend, 
try only for one single day, to be quite alone 
in a solitary place, and then you will know, 
what a life of solitude is ! 

Besides, Robinson was far from having his 
many other wants gratified. His clothes were 
falling by degrees all to rags, and altho* he 
had no occasion for them to protect him from 
the cold, he had much occasion for them to 
guard his body from the insects with which 
this island swarmed, particularly muskitoes, 
whose sting is much more painful than that of 
our flies. Robinson's face and hands 'were 
almost always swelled with them. Now, what 
must he expect to suffer when once his clothes 
were worn out ! and that time was approaching 
fast. 

This, and Jlis longing desire to behold his 
parents! drew many a sigh from him, when 
x>2 , 



64 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

looking with moistened eyes, over the bound- 
less ocean > he could distinguish nothing, but 
the sea and sky. How did his heart sometimes 
flutter with empty hope, when, in the distant 
.horizon, he perceived a small cloud, which his 
imagination represented to him as a ship in 
full sail ! and when, at length, he discovered 
his mistake, the tears would trickle from his 
eyes, and his heart seem ready to burst as he 
returned home slowly to his habitation. 

He prayed night and day for his deliverance 
from the desert island; but he never forgot, 
at the same time, to add, " Not mine, O Lord-! 
but thy will be done." ' Because he was now 
perfectly convinced that the Supreme Being 
knows much better than we do what is for 
our interests. 

His greatest inconvenience now was, the 
.want of shoes and stockings. They were fal- 
len to pieces, and the muskitoes did so furl* 
ously attack his naked legs, that he knew not 
where to. fly from them. His face, his hands, 
and his feet were so swelled by the stings of 
these insects, since the rainy season, during 
which they had multiplied prodigiously, that 
he seemed no longer to be the same person. 

Necessity forced him to help himself the 
best he could. He took the skins, therefore, 
of the lamas which he had killed, and cut out 
of them, with his knife of flint, but not with- 
out a great deal of trouble, first, a pair of shoes, 
and then a pair of stockings. » He could not 
sew either of them ; he was obliged, therefore, 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

to content himself with making eyelet-holes 
in them, and lacing them to his legs and feet 
with a string ; which was, no doubt, subject to 
great inconvenience : for, though he turned 
the hair outwards, he still felt a violent heat 
at his feet. Besides, the skin, which was stiff 
and hard, blistered his feet, and took the skin 
* off whenever he walked any distance, and 
caused him very great pain. However, he 
chuse to endure this rather than the stings of 
the muskitoes. 

Of another piece of skin which was very 
stiff and a little bent, he made a mask, cutting 
in it two small holes for the eyes, and another 
for the mouth, that he might be able to breathe. 
He also resolved not to quit it until he had 
made himself a jacket and trowsers of lama's 
skin. It is true this task was much more 
difficult ; but what is there in which we do 
not succeed at last, with the requisite patience 
and application ? 

The jacket, was composed of three pieces ; * 
two of which served for the arms, and the 
third for the body. The trowsers consisted 
of two pieces, one before and one behind, and 
they were laced at the sides. When the jacket 
and trowsers were finished, he put them both 
on, with the resolution never to dress himself 
again in his European clothes, except upon 
the birth-day of his father and mother, which 
he celebrated as solemn festivals. 

After this, he resumed his potter's work. 
The oven was soon finished, and then he h * A 
d3 



66 . HEW ROBINSON CRUSOK. 

a rdiml to try whether he could not produce 
a sort of glazing on his pots. He put thew, 
therefore, and Ms pipkins into it, after which, 
he made up, by degrees, so great a fire, that 
the oven was red hot from one end to the other. 
This he kept up until evening, suffering it then 
to go out by degrees. But what, think ye, 
was the result of his labour ? The first pot that 
be took out was not glazed, nor the second, 
nor, in short, any of them. But, m exannn* 
ing one of his pipkins, he perceived, with 
equal joy and surprise, that this, and this alone, 
was covered at bottom with a real glazing. 

This riddle he could by no means solve. — *• 
" What reason in' the world can there be," 
said he, " why this single pipkin is a little 
glazed, and not one of the other vessels, 
though they were all made of the same earth, 
and baked in one and the same oven?" At 
length, he recollected that there had been a 
little salt in this pipkin when he put it into 
' the oven. He could not help thinking, there- 
fore, that the sah alone must be the cause of 
the glazing. 

What Robinson now discovered by acci- 
dent has been long known in Europe; the 
addition of salt is the true cause why many 
things turn to glass in the fire : so that be only 
need have rubbed the earthen-ware with salt 
water, or barely have thrown a little salt into 
tbem, and all his pots would have been pro* 
periyghKea\ 

Digitized by VaOOQ IC 



NEW ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 67 

This, therefore, be resolved to try tlte next 
day. And now the fire blazed under his 
oven, and already he bad rubbed some of his 
vessels with salt water, and put dry salt in 
others, on purpose to make the two experi- 
ments at the same time, when, in the midst of 
his work, he Was interrupted by an accident 
which he had dreaded a long time — he was 
taken ill. He felt pains in his breast and head, 
and a great weariness all over his limbs. 

" What will become of me if I cannot rise 
out of my bed ! if there is no compassionate 
being to take care of me or offer me any re- 
freshment ! what will become of me !" It was 
in this moment of trial that he had more occa- 
sion than ever to possess a firm and filial confi- 
dence in his Heavenly Father, who is supreme- 
ly good. Deprived of all human assistance, 
and forsaken by his own strength, what re- 
mained to prevent his dying in misery? No- 
thing but the assistance of God ; no other 
support had he to expect in the whole world. 
But this state of anxiety did not suffer bim 
long to remain inactive. He mustered up whet 
strength he had still remaining, in order, if 
possible, to place near his bed whatever he 
should most want for refreshment, in case the 
stekness absolutely prevented him from rising. 
He brought a couple of cocoa-nut sheik faU 
of water, some roasted potatoes, and four 
lemons which he had still remaining^ and now, 
quite exhausted, fell down with weariness ofc 
hi* miserable bed. 



,68 NEW ROBINJSON CRUSOE. 

If it had pleased his Maker to take him out 
of tire world by a sudden death, with what re- 
signation would lie have yielded up his life ! 
He even prayed that it might be so; but very 
soon he reflected that his prayer was not rear 
sonable. " Am I not a child of God ?" said 
he to himself; " Am I not the work of his 
hands ? Is he not a tender, wise, and almighty 
father ? How have I then the boldness to pre- 
scribe to him what he should do with me ? Doth 
he not know best what is good for me, and 
will he not act so as to allot me .that which is 
good ? Yes, he will ; God is benevolent, mer- 
ciful, and almighty." After these words, he 
was somewhat encouraged, and raising himself 
upon his knees, he prayed with all the earnest- 
ness possible, saying, '* I resign myself** 43 my 
heavenly Father, to tfiy guidance. I^wiH' bear 
contentedly whatsoever thou allottest 'Hne i , 
only .grant me strength to bear — it is all thatv 
I ask of thee. O merciful Father, for the sake 
of thy dear Son, grant me patience under my 
afflictions, and an unshaken confidence in thee. 
Hear this earnest prayer of thy poor child who i$ 
in misery; hear it for thy tender mercy's sake ! w , 

Art the same time, he was attacked with a 
violent ague. Though he covered himself all 
over with the dried lamas' skins, yet he could 
not keep himself warm. This cold fit lasted 
two hours,, and was succeeded by a hot fh% 
which was like a burning fire through his veins. 
His. breast heaved and sunk. like the breast of 
a person that is out of brealh with running, 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE 69 

and: he had scarcely strength enough to lift 
the cocoa-nut shell, with ijbe water in it, to 
his mouth, that he might cool his burning 
tongue. At length, a violent sweat broke 
out, all over his body, in great drops, and this 
afforded him some ease. When, at the end of 
about an hour, it abated, he recovered his spi- 
rits a little, and then he was distressed with 
the idea that his fire would go out if fresh 
.wood was not put on. He crept, therefore, 
weak as he was, upon all-fours, and threw as 
much wood upon the hearth as would be suffi- 
cient to keep in the fire until the next morn- 
ing; for night was now approaching. It was 
.the worst night that ever he passed. The cold 
and hot fits of his ague followed each other 
without intermission. He had a violent and 
.continual pain in his head, and could not close 
his eyes the whole night. All this weakened 
him so much, that, in the morning, he was 
scarcely able to crawl towards the heap of wood 
to replenish his fire. 

Towards evening, his illness increased 
afresh ; he tried again to go as far as the hearth/ 
but found himself unable. He was obliged, 
therefore, to give up all thoughts of keeping 
in his fire; and this, in effect, soon became a 
matter of indifference to him, as he now ex- 
. pected death to approach in a short time. 

This night he was as restless as the last. — 
In the mean time the fire went out: the re- 
mainder of the water that was in the shells 
began to spoil, and Robinson was no longer 



W KEW ROBINSOK CRUSOK. 

able to turn himself in his bed. Indeed, death 
seemed to advance fast: his pains increased; 
and his breathing became more difficult. Ah I 
behold the wished-for moment ! It seems to 
come at length. A pain, such as he had never 
felt before seized his breast; he suddenly 
stopped breathing, he felt a convulsive shud- 
dering, sunk down on his bed, and was deprived 
of sense and motion. 

Robinson, however, was not dead, and the 
first token oi his breathing again was a deep 
sigh. He opens his eyes, looks round him, to 
know where he is, and, by degrees, comes to 
his recollection. He feels himself very weak, 
but free from all troublesome pain. The burn- 
ing heat is now Succeeded by a kindly sweat 
all over his body. To encourage it, he covers 
himself well tip with skins, and before half an 
hour found himself considerably relieved. 

But now he was seized with a violent thirst. 
The water that remained was now no longer 
drinkable ; he thought of his lemons ; he put 
one of them to his mouth, and so weak was 
he that his teeth could scarcely enter it; but 
when he had sucked a little of the juice, he 
found himself greatly refreshed, and his thirst 
quenched. He now composed himself to rest, 
his perspiration still continuing, and enjoyed 
,an agreeable slumber until sunrise. 

For two days past, he had taken no notice of 
his lamas: fortunately however these animals, 
as well as the camels, can do without drinking 
for several days, otherwise they would hava 



NEW BOBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

been very badly off, for Robinson fyeing yet too 
weak to rise ami fetch them water, they were 
likely to be deprived of it for some time* 

The eldest of the lamas having come up close 
to him, he exerted the little strength he had in 
milking her, that she might not go dry. Her 
milk no doubt, assisted Robinson's recovery:, 
for, after drinking it, he found himself consi- 
derably better. 

After this, he fell asleep again, enjoyed a 
most refreshing slumber, and did not awake 
until sunset. He perceived that his appetite 
was increased : he satisfied it again with some, 
potatoes sprinkled with lemon juice, and then 
went to sleep once more. 

This calm, uninterrupted sleep, together with 
his good constitution, contributed so effectually 
to the recovery of lus strength, that the very 
next morning he was able to rise and attempt 
to walk a few steps, though he still staggered 
with weakness. 

He crawled out of his cave into the space 
before it. There he lifts up his eyes to Hea-* 
ven. Some beams of the rising sun, piercing 
through the leaves of the trees that surrounded 
him, shone agreeably on his face, and re-ani- 
mated him. with their pleasing warmth. He 
thought he felt himself receive new life.-^- 
" God of my life," cried he, " what thanks 
shall I render thee for giving me to behold 
once more, the bright luminary of day, and 
by its light the wonderful works of thy hands ! 
'Ibou hast restored me to life afresh, doubtless. 



7$ NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

in order that I may have more time to devote to 
repentance, and that, through thy Graced I may 
not waste a moment of my remaining life without 
advancing that work, the only one thing needful, 
but may ever be found ready to take my flight 
towards the place where those who have sought 
forgiveness, through the atoning sacrifice of thy 
Son, shall have eternal life." 

From these effusions of gratitude towards' 
his Creator, he naturally passed to the admi- 
ration of the creatures. His looks wandered 
sometimes over the azure sky ; sometimes over 
the smiling verdure of the trees and shrubs 
besprinkled with pearly dew, sometimes on his 
lamas which by crowding round him, seemed to' 
express their joy. He felt an emotion, like that 
of ja traveller, who after a" long absence, enters 
the bosom of his beloved family. The advan- 
tage of being able to take the air, and the 
use of milk mixed with spring water, together 
with the contentedness of his mind, contributed 
to his perfect recovery. In a few days all his 
strength returned, and he found himself in a 
capacity to resume his former occupations. 

He went first to examine his new-made earth- 
enware, and to see how it had succeeded. As 
soon as he opened the oven, what an agreeable 
surprise! All his vessels were as well glazed 
as if they had been the work of an experienced 
potter. In the height of hfe joy for this success, 
he does not perceive that his ware is of no 
use to him. When at length he recollects 
that his fire is out, he stands motionless for a 
while, and hanging his head, fixes his eyes, 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 73 

sometimes on his pots, sometimes on his fire- 
place, and heaves a deep- sigh. 

Nevertheless, he was able this time to mo- 
derate, his vexation, and to contain it within 
due bounds. " The same good providence,'* 
said he to himself, " which before provided 
me with fire, can provide me with it again, and 
I shall not be deprived of it, if heaven thinks 
fit." Besides, he was already taught that he 
had not the rigours of winter to fear; and 
though he was accustomed from his childhood 
to animal food, he hoped to be able to do with- 
out it, and to live upon fruits and the milk of 
his lamas. 

Not being able to make a churn of wood, 
he had a mind to try whether he could not 
churn butter in a large earthen pot. He ga- 
thered, therefore, as much cream as he thought 
would be sufficient. He shaped out also a 
round flat piece of wood, in the centre of 
which he made a hole to receive a stick. This 
instrument he held upright in the cream pot, 
and moved it with an incessant motion up and 
down, until the butter was separated from the 
buttermilk. He then washed the butter in 
clean spring water, and made it up with a 
little salt. 
• He was thus, once more, happy in the accom- 
plishment of his design; but he now reflected 
that he must think no more of potatoes, for 
want of fire to roast them ; a circumstance 
which, in the warmth of executing his design, 
he had never once thought of. He has butter 
x 



TO NEW ROBINSON CHUSOE. 

but he can make no use of ft. It is true, the 
oysters, ihe milk, the eoeoa-nuts, and flesh, 
either raw or dried in the sun, might afford him 
nourishment; hut was it certain that no acci- 
dent would deprive him of these resources? 
And the most deplorable of all was, that he 
could invent no means to render his lot better 
or more secure. 

What shall he undertake now? He is he- 
come so accustomed to work, that he cannot 
live without occupation. " Constant employ- 
ment/' he would say, " is the raolfter of a 
crowd of virtues, as habitual idleness is the 
source of all vice," He resolved, therefore, 
to set about building a little boat, hoping, by 
means of it, to return amongst his fellow-crea- 
tuoes. He had reason to think that the con- 
tinent of America was not far off; and he was 
determined, if he had a canoe, be it ever so 
slight, to face every danger, and tend, if pos- 
sible, on this continent. Full of this idea, he 
resolved to make choice of a tree, which he 
might convert into a boat, <by hollowing out 
the trunk of it. With this design he travers- 
ed several parts of the island where he had 
never been before, and remarked, on his way 
several plants that were unknown to him, and 
on which he resolved to make experiments, to 
Sad whether they would answer the purpose 
ofi food. Amongst others, he observed some 
stalks of maiae, or Indian corn,* as it is called. 
He admired the largeness of the heads, on 
each of winch he reckoned mere than two nun- 



NEW ROBINSON CBCSOE. 75 

dred large grains, closely ranged, one beside 
the other, and resembling grains of coral. — 
He had not the least doubt hut this corn might 
be used for food, but how was it to he ground ? 
How was the flour to be separated from the 
brae ? How was it to be made into bread, or 
indeed, into food of any sort, without the help 
of fire? Notwithstanding all these conside- 
ration* he carried off some ears of it with him, 
intending to sow the grains. " How do I 
know," said he, " hut I may reap considerable 
advantage from these in the end?" A little 
further on, he discovered a fruit tree of a 
species quite new to him. From this tree, 
hung numbers of large husks, one of which he 
opened, and found in it about sixty nuts of a 
particular sort. Though they were not very 
agreeable to the taste, yet he put one or two 
of the ripest busks into his pouch* These, he 
afterwards found, were the nuts, of which they 
make chocolate, hut they were quite useless 
to him. 

At length, he came to another tree* whicji 
was as little known to him as the former. The 
fruit of it was as large as that of the cocoa-nut 
tree, but had neither husk Bar shell ; the whole 
was eatable and of an exquisite nVvour. This 
tree was also quite differently shaped from the 
cocoa-nut tree. It did not consist, like the 
latter, of a trunk which rises straight up its 
whole height, and bears a topping of thick 
foliage ; but this had branches and leaves, Uke 
those of our fimit jyees. He learned alter- 
e2 



76 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 

wards that it was the bread tree, so called be- 
cause its fruit, in some parts of the East, serves' 
for bread, sometimes just as it grows, but more 
commonly pounded and made into a sort of 
dough. 

He observed, that the trunk of this tree, 
from its great age, was already a little hollowed 
on one side ; and immediately he thought it 
would answer for the boat that he had in con- 
templation, if he could only find means to cut 
it down and hollow it sufficiently. He there- 
fore carefully marked the spot, that he might 
find it again, and went away without having 
determined upon any thing. 

In his walk, he found what he bad long 
wished for, a parrot's nest. The discovery 
gave him a great deal of pleasure. He went 
towards it without the least noise, and was 
stretching out his hands to clap them on the 
nest, when the young parrots, which were 
strong and well fledged, took to flight, and 
escaped from him, all but one, more slow than 
the rest, which could not get away and ' re- 
mained his prisoner. 

When he came home he made a cage as well 
as he could, in which he lodged his new guest; 
placed it on one side of his bed, and went to 
rest, with a mind as happy and rejoiced as that 
of a man who had gained a new friend. * 

If ever he undertook a long and troublesome 
task, it was certainly that of cutting down the 
tree for his canoe, which was his next work. 
Many other men would have been discouraged, 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 77 

but we have seen already, that Robinson made it 
a rule never to suffer himself to be turned from 
his purpose when he had Well considered it; 
he was therefore unshaken in his resolution 
of going through with this enterprize. Were 
it to cost him twice the time and fatigue that 
it required, yet the , thought of giving it up 
never entered his head. From the sun's risk- 
ing till about noon,, he never ceased working, 
and then his hand would have covered or filled 
up the bole that he had made in the trunk by 
the thousands of strokes which he laid on it. 
From this we may form some idea how long a 
time it would require him to cut down a tree of 
such a thickness, and to make a boat of it. 

Being convinced that it would be a work of 
some years, he thought proper to regulate his 
occupations and divide his time, so that each 
part of tjie day might have its own work allotted 
to itself. Experience had taught nim, that, in 
a life of labour, nothing helps industry so much 
as regularity, and a methodical distribution of 
the work to the different hours of the day.— 
He rose at break of day, and went directly to 
the spring, where he washed his head, hands, 
breast, and feet. Having no linen to wipe 
himself dry, be let the air dry his body, and 
assisted it by running, as he generally did, 
straight home to the top of the hillock, at the 
;foot of which his cave was situated. He then, 
in the sincerity of his heart, worshipped and 
prayed to the Author of all Things : bis Crea- 
tor, his Redeemer, and his Sanctifier,. and 

■j, O HzedbyVnO 



78 KEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

never failed particularly to entreat that he 
would make bis parents happy, whom, though 
lie had forsaken, he never forgot. He then 
returned to his cave, and milked his lamas, 
which were now increased in number to a 
little flock. He breakfasted on some of the 
new milk, and spent the rest of the morning 
at his labour. 

. About ten o'clock, the heat was generally 
so excessive that he was obliged to quit his 
work. He then went to the sea-side to look 
for oysters, and, at the same time, to bathe, 
which he did regularly twice a day. Before 
noon he returned home with his flock. He 
now milked his lamas a second time, prepared 
a sort of cheese from the milk which had 
curdled, and then laid out his dinner, which, 
being tolerably frugal was soon done. It 
consisted of new cheese dipped in milk, some 
oysters, and half a cocoa-nut. At dinner time, 
he amused himself with his parrot ; he spoke 
to it, and frequently repeated certain words, 
with the hope of hearing it pronounce some 
of them one day or another. After dinner, 
he commonly reposed himself, for an hour, 
either under the shade in the open air, or eke 
in his rave, surrounded by his lamas, and with 
his parrot at his side. Sometimes, as he sat, 
he would fix his eyes upon these animals, and 
ppeak to them as if he expected them to under- 
stand what be sakl. 

About two o clock he returned to the tree 
to work at his grand design. He continued 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



79 



two hours each time at this laborious task.-— 
Hie rest of the day he spent in working at 
his garden. Sometimes he sowed maize, or 
planted potatoes, hoping that, if he slwukl 
ever have fire again, they might both be of 
great advantage to him. Much to Robinson's 
grief, the longest day was, in his island, but 
thirteen hours. In the middle of summer, it 
was night at seven o'clock. Whatever re- 
quired day-light, for the performance of it, 
must be finished before that time. Therefore, as 
night drew on, that is to say, about six o'clock, 
if he had no other more important business 
upon his hands, he went through bis exercise 
of shooting with the bow, and throwing the 
spear, that he might be able to defend himself 
if he should happen to meet with a savage or a 
wild beast ; for he was never perfectly free from 
the dread of these. By degrees, he acquired 
so great a degree of dexterity in both the ex- 
ercises above mentioned, that he seldom missed 
a mark of the size of a crovn» though at a 
pretty good distance from him. When night 
came on, he went home to milk his lamafc, for 
the third time, and took a moderate Supper by 
the light of the moon or stars. Lastly, he 
crowned the labours of the day by meditating 
at night upon his conduct. " How have you 
spent the day ? Having received fresh mercies, 
have you blessed the divine source from which 
they flowed ? Has your heart been filled wkh 
love and gratitude to your heavenly benefac- 
tor? In your trouble have you put your con* 



80 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

-fidence in him? In your gratifications have 
you forgotten him? Hare you rejected the 
evil thoughts that offered themselves to your 
imagination? Have you suppressed the extra- 
vagant wishes that rose in your breast? in a 
word, are you become really better than you 
were ?" Whenever to these or the like ques- 
tions his conscience could return a good 
answer, he sung a hymn to the praise of Him 
' whose Grace had led him in the road to virtue. 
When, on the contrary, he had reason to be 
•less pleased with himself, the thoughts of hav- 
ing thus lost a day filled him with sorrow; 
for he counted the day lost when he had done 
any thing which he could not approve at night. 
Whenever this was the case, then close by the 
notch that he made every day upon the tree 
which served him by way of almanack, he 
made two notches crossing each other; and 
this served to put him in mind of his fault, 
that for the future he might be better on his 
guard, and not fall into the same error. 

Let us also endeavour to follow the exam- 
ple that Robinson now gives us. Let us reserve 
a few minutes every evening, to give an ac-? 
count, to ourselves, of the manner in which 
we have spent the day ; and, if we find, either 
in our thoughts, words, or actions, any thing 
which our consciences dare not avow, let u& 
mark down the same in a book, to put us in 
mind of it, from time to time, that, having 
before our eyes the fault of which we hare 
once been guijty, we may ever afterwards take 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31 

more care to avoid it. By thus labouring to 
improve ourselves every day, we shall also 
continually increase our own satisfaction and 
happiness. 

Three years passed away, and Robinson s 
manner of living was still the same. In all 
that time, he had scarcely cut through half the 
trunk of the tree, and it now seemed a matter 
of doubt to him whether he could cut down 
the* tree in less than three or four years more, 
though he Were to work with the same constant 
regularity as before: for, in the mean time, 
he never slackened the work. He was neither 
willing nor able to remain idle* One day, the 
thought struck him, that, as long as he had 
lived in this island, he had visited but a veiy 
small part of it. " Perhaps," said he, " I might 
discover many things which would at present 
be very useful to me. 

This consideration determined him to set 
out the very next morning, by day-break, in 
order to take a view of the whole island, which 
was about the extent of one of the counties of 
Ireland. 

• His first day's journey was remarkable for no 
extraordinary accident, , though he travelled 
about twenty miles. On the second day, he 
had not travelled far before he found himself 
at the southern extremity of the island. In 
some places, the soil was sandy. He had a 
mind to walk out upon a neck of land which 
extended pretty far into the sea, but, suddenly 
starting back, he grew as pale as death ; for 
js 4> 



82 KfiW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

his eyes discovered tvhat he never expected to 
find there, the tracks of men's feet in the sand. 

The consternation was dreadful into which 
this unexpected eight threw the poor affrighted 
Robinson. - He looks round to every quarter ; 
at the noise of every leaf he feels fresh terror. 
In the confusion of his spirits, he knows not 
what to resolve on: at last, mustering up all 
his strength, he takes to flight, with the ut- 
most precipitation, like a man who is pursued; 
and, so great is his terror, that he dares not, 
even once, look hack. But suddenly he stops ; 
liis fear is changed into horror. He saw a 
round hole, in the middle of which was a space 
whereon a fire seemed to have been kindled, 
though it was then out. All around this hole, 
he perceived human bones, scattered about, 
the horrible remains of an unnatural feast, 
where a human body had been devoured.— 
Robinson turned his eyes away from the hide- 
ous spectacle; it made him quite sick, and bo 
very nearly fainted. As soon as he was u 
little recovered, he fled away again with so 
much precipitation, that bis lama could scarcely 
keep up with him; for this faithful animal 
followed close at his heels wherever he went. 

He hoped to be able to get home that same 
day, but found it impossible. At night-fall, 
he was within a couple of miles of his own 
dwelling, at a place whieh he called Jus coun- 
try seat. The year before, he had lain there 
several nights in the summer time, being griev- 
ously tormented with muskitoes at his eld 

Digitized by ViOOQ 1C 



W*W ROBINSON CRUSOE. BS 

dwetting-plactt. For this reason, be called the 
spot bis country seat. His strength bem j 
quite gone, be was not ablo to go any farther. 
Whatever danger there might be in passing 
the night in so unsafe a place, necessity obliged 
him to stop there* Quite worn out with fa- 
tigue, and his mind still agitated with fear, he 
lay down to take some repose j but scarcely 
was he half asleep, when a fresh subject of 
terror had nearly deprived him of his senses 
once more. He heard a voice in the ah*, which 
very distinctly uttered these words, " Robin- 
son, poor Robinson ! Where liave you been ? 
How came you here?" Robinson started up, 
trembling, not knowing what to think. He 
hears tlie same words repeated ; lie ventures 
to turn his eyes towards the quarter from Which 
the voice came, and finds, what a coward, if 
he would take the pains to examine before he 
gives way to his fears, would, in general, find*— 
that he iiad no reason to be alarmed ; he finds 
that it was no voice in the air, but tlie voice 
of his Own parrot, which was perched upon 
the branch of a tree close by. No doubt the 
bird was tired of being left alone in the care, 
and, as it bad many a time before followed its 
master to the place where he now was, it came 
thither to seek him, and pronounced the same 
words Which Robinson had repeated to it hun- 
dreds of times. His fright was now turned 
to joy at having found out the cause of the 
false ahtm. Robinson stretches out his hand 
and catts " PoH!" the bird flies to Jbim, and 



84 NEW ROBINSON CRUMB. 

welcomes him with a hundred fond caresses; 
all the while crying, " Robinson ! poor Ro- 
binson ! where have you been ?" 

He soon saw and acknowledged thai his 
fright had been carried to an extravagant 
pitch. " I have been here/' said he, " a long 
time, and no savage has ever yet come near 
my habitation, which is proof enough that they 
are not settled in this island. It is most likely 
that they are inhabitants of another island, from 
whence some of them come here now and then, 
to celebrate their victories by a horrible feast; 
and probably they never land but at the south- 
ern point of the island, and return to their own 
country without having the curiosity to come 
any farther* It is, therefore, providential that 
I have been thrown on this part of the coast, 
the least fertile in the whole island. This, 
very disadvantage is now the cause of my 
security." He then reproached himself bit- 
terly for having shown so little confidence in 
his heavenly Father. Filled with sorrow and 
repentance, 'he threw himself prostrate on. the 
ground, to implore pardon for his new. fault. 
Having now recovered his strength, he walked 
towards his cave to put in execution the new. 
designs which he had just formed. 

The first thing he thought of, for his greater 
security, was to plant, at a small^ distance from 
the trees which, enclosed the front space before, 
his cave, about two thousand slips of that sort 
of willow which he had before observed to 
take root and snow up in so short, a time* 



MEW JtOBLNSON CRUSOE. 85 

He took good care not to plant them in rows : 
on the contrary, he avoided all regularity, on 
purpose to give the whole the appearance of a 
natural growth rather than of artificial ar- 
rangement. He resolved next, to dig a sub- 
terraneous passage from the bottom of his 
cave to the other side of the hill, that, in case 
the enemy should scale his barricade, he might 
have a back way to escape by. This was, also, 
a tedious task ; so that he was obliged to give 
up the making, of the canoe for a while. — 
Whatever earth he cleared out of it, he car- 
ried close to the hedge, and took care to level 
it. Thus, by degrees, he raised a terrace, ten 
feet high, and eight thick. At convenient 
distances, he had left openings, or port-holes, 
that he might see the out-country: he had, 
besides, made steps to go up to the top of the 
terrace, in case he should, one day or other, 
be obliged to defend* his little fort from the 
top of bis rampart. 

He seemed now sufficiently secured against 
a sudden or short attack. But, then, if the 
enemy should be obstinate, and block him up 
for some time, what are to be his resources? 
To prevent any such extremity, he resolved 
to keep constantly within the enclosure, at 
least, one of his lamas that gave milk, and to 
have, by way of reserve, for the support of 
. tins animal, a small rick of hay, which was 
not to be touched unless in case of necessity. 
He was,4 moreover, resolved to lay up a stock 
tf cheese, fruits* and oysters, and recruit it, 



W HEW HOBlNSOJf CITU80E. 

frem day to day, according .as the one or the 
other became unfit to keep. 

For some years there happened netbtag 
worth relating* We hasten, therefore, to an 
event which had more influence on the lot of 
Robinson than all that had happened to him 
in his island as yet. 

One fine clear morning, as he was working 
at his canoe, he perceived a very thick smoke 
rising at a distance. He hastened, therefore, 
to tie top of his little hillock, to discover its 
cause* Scarcely was he arrived there, when 
he was struck with consternation at the sight 
of five or six canoes drawn up on the beach, 
and a score or two of savages dancing round 
a great fire,, with the • most fantastic motions 
and horrid cries imaginable. Though Robin- 
son was near falling into a swoon with terror, 
he quickly recovered his spirits, by placing 
confidence in his Maker. He ran down the 
hill to put himself in a pasture of defence, 
took his arms, implored the assistance of 
Heaven, and firmly resolved to defend his 
life to the last extremity. Fortified in this 
resolution by his piety, he went up again by 
his ladder of ropes to the top of the hill, for 
the purpose of viewing all the enemy's motions. 

Presently his indignation and horror were 
raised to the highest pitch, when he beheld 
them drag two unfortunate wretches from the 
canoes towards the place where the fire was. 
Some of these monsters kill one of the captives, 
and - two others cut him into pieces, and 



KSW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 87 

prepare their abominable fowl* During this 
shocking execution, the other prisoner sat a 
a^tencboJy spectator of what was doing, in 
the expectation of very soon recemng the 
same treatment in hie turn. But while these 
barbarians were busily taken Up with the butch- 
ery of his companion, he watches a moment 
when nobody had an eye upon him, and with 
the hope of escaping death, he suddenly starts 
away, and flies with astonishing swiftness 
directly towards Robinson's dwelling-place. 

Joy, hope, and fear, alternately seized on 
Robinson's heart; they appeared successively 
in his countenance, which was pale, and red 
by turns* He felt a joy mingled with hope, 
when he observed the prisoner to gain greund 
considerably cm his pursuers: but was filled 
with fear when he saw both parties coming as 
straight as possible towards , his habitation. 
They were separated from it only by a small 
creek, which die savage, who fled, must cross, 
by swimming, to avoid falling into the ene- 
my's bands. As soon as he came to the bank 
of it, be threw himself In without hesitation, 
and crossed it with the swiftness that he had 
exerted in running. Two of those who were 
nearest to him threw themselves in after him, 
and all the rest returned to their abominable 
feast. Robinson perceived, with much satis- 
faction, that these two kst were not, by a 
great deal, such expert swimmers as he whom 
they pursued. He was landed before they 
had half crossed the creek. At this moment, 



88 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Robinson was animated with a courage such 
as he had never felt before : his eyes sparkled r 
his heart throbbed, and seemed to urge htm 
to the assistance of the weaker party. He 
takes his spear, and, without hesitating, runs 
down from the top of the hillock. In the 
twinkling of an eye he passes through the 
grove, and, coming out on the other side, 
finds himself just between the pursuers and 
the pursued. He cries to the latter, " Stop ! 
stop!" but he turning about, is terrified at 
the looks of Robinson drest up in skins; he 
takes him for some superior being, and hesi- 
tates whether to fall at his feet or run away 
from him. Robinson stretching out his hand, 
gives him to understand, by signs, that he was 
his friend, and then, turning about, marches 
towards the enemy. When within the reach 
of the foremost savage, he throws his spear 
at him, and strikes him to the ground. The 
Other savage, being about one hundred yards 
behind, stops, quite surprised, fixes an arrow 
to his bow, and discharges it at Robinson, who 
was coming up to him. The arrow struck 
him on the left breast, where the heart lies;, 
but luckily it came with no great force, and 
the skins kept it off as well as a coat of armour 
couljj. have done. Our hero does not give his 
enemy time to shoot a second arrow ; he rushes 
upon him, and before the savage, can draw the 
bow-string, Robinson lays him lifeless in the 
dust. 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRtJSOB. 89 

He now turns towards him whom he had 
protected, and sees him still upon the same 
spot, motionless, betwixt hope and fear, doubt- 
ing whether the action that he had just been 
witness to, was meant for his preservation, or 
whether he himself must fall, in his turn, be- 
neath the mighty blows of this unknown being. 
The conqueror calls him; makes him under- 
stand, by signs, that he is to come nearer. — 
He at first obeys, then stops, walks on a little 
way, stops again, advances slowly with evident 
marks of fear, and in the attitude of a suppli- 
ant. Robinson makes him every sign of friend- 
ship possible, and invites him to come close 
up to him. The savage approaches; but at 
every ten steps prostrates himself on the 
ground, at the same time to thank him and to 
testify his submission to him. Robinson takes 
off his mask, and looks at him with a mild, 
humane and friendly air. At this sight the 
savage hesitates no more, but flies towards his 
deliverer, prostrates himself, kisses the ground, 
takes one of Robinson's feet and puts it on his 
neck, to signify that he was his slave. But 
our hero, who knew that he had more occa- 
sion for a friend than a slave, quickly held 
out his hand to him in a friendly manner, 
raised him up, and endeavoured, by all the 
means imaginable, to convince him that he 
should be well used. However, there still 
remained something to be done. 

The first savage was wounded, but not kill- 
ed. Being now come to himself, he was 



99 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

gathering berks and applying them to hit wound 
to slop the blood. Robinson made the savage, 
who stood near him, observe this, who imme- 
diately spoke some words in return. Though 
Robinson did not understand them, yet they 
pleased his ear by their novelty, being the first 
' sound tr£ the human voice that he had Jieard 
lor many years. The Indian* fixing Ins eyes 
alternately upon Robinson, and his hatchet, 
pointing to it with bis finger, and then draw- 
ing his hand hade again, gave him to under- 
stand that he desired his weapon to dispatch 
the enemy. Our hero, though loth to shed 
human Mood, yet sensible of the necessity of 
killing the wounded savage, gives his hatchet, 
and turns his eyes from seeing the bloody use 
that is going to be made of it. The Indian 
runs up to his adversary, strikes off his head 
at a blow, and returns with the cruel smile of 
gratified revenge; Then, making a thousand 
wry faces, and throwing himself into a thou- 
sand odd postures, he lays at Robinson's feet, 
by way of a trophy, the hatchet, together with 
the bleeding head of the savage he had killed. 

Robinson made signs to him to gather up 
the bows and arrows of the slain, and to follow 
him. The Indian, m return, gave him to 
understand, by signs, that, before they went 
away, it would be proper to bury the two dead 
savages in the sand, that, if their companions 
should afterwards come to seek them, they 
might, not find any remains of them. Robin- 
son having signified that he approved of this 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. SI 

precaution, the Indian fell to work with his 
hands, but with so much activity and dispatch, 
that, in leas than a quarter of an hour, the two 
bodies were buried. They then set out toge- 
ther towards Robinson's abode, and went up 
to the top of the hillock. 

The posture of their affairs was dangerous 
and critical; for, was it not very likely that 
the savages would set out to seek their two 
companions who were missing, as well as the 
victim that had escaped from them ? 

He deliberated, therefore, how he should 
act ; whether to fly, or shut himself up in his 
fort. His thoughts rising to the Almighty 
Protector of Innocence, he found in himself 
courage and resolution to chuse the latter 
determination. In order not to be perceived, 
he slipped behind the bushes, crept to his lad- 
der of ropes, made a sign to his companion 
to follow him, and do as he did, and very soon 
they were both at the bottom. The Indian, 
seeing the commodious arrangement of every 
thing in his deliverers dwelling place, was 
seized with surprise. His eyes had never 
beheld any tiling so well laid out. He felt the 
same sort of admiration which a husbandman 
would, who, from the wildest part of the coun- 
try, should find himself, all of a sudden, in 
the midst of a palace. Robinson now endea- 
voured, by signs, to make him understand 
what they had to fear from the savages, if 
united, and that, in case they should come to 
attack him, lie was resolved to defend himself 



92 NEW ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 

to the last extremity, and even to death. The 
Indian understood him, and immediately, with 
a resolute air, brandishes the hatchet, which 
be still held, several times over his head, looks 
with a threatening countenance towards the 
enemy, as if challenging them to combat, and 
thus endeavours to assure his deliverer that 
he was ready to defend himself courageously. 
Robinson applauded these marks of , intrepi- 
dity, armed the Indian with a spear, a bow 
and arrows, and placed him sentinel at a kind 
of port-hole which he had made in his terrace, 
that he might have a view of whatever passed 
in the empty space between that and the wood 
which he had planted. They continued on guard 
till it was almost night ; but having perceived 
no enemy, nor heard any voice for some hours, 
it seemed very probable that the savages, after 
a very cursory search, had returned to their 
canoes, and were gone back to their own 
island. They laid down their arms, therefore, 
and Robinson brought out something for 
supper. 

As this day, so particularly remarkable in 
the adventures of our hero, happened to be a 
Friday, he resolved, to perpetuate the remem- 
brance of it by giving to the savage, whose life 
he had saved, the name of Friday. He was a 
well-made young man, about twenty years of 
age ; his complexion was swarthy, his hair black 
and long, not woolly like that of the negroes; 
his nose was short, though not very fla4j, his 
lips small, and his teeth as white as ivory. In 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 93 

his ears he wore various feathers and shells, an 
ornament on which he seemed to lay no small 
value; in other respects he was naked. His 
master, therefore, who had a proper regard for 
decency, would not go to supper, though hun- 
ger called him pressingly, until he had fitted a 
skin for his new guest, which served him hy 
way of apron. He then made signs to him to 
sit down beside him, and eat his supper. Fri- 
day, as we shall now call him, approaches Ro- 
binson with all the tokens imaginable of re- 
spect and gratitude ; he falls down on his face 
before him, and places the foot of his deliverer 
<m his own neck, as he bad done before. 

Robinson, whose heart could scarcely con- 
tain his joy on having found, at length, a com- 
panion and a friend, would have been glad to 
express it by a thousand marks of kindness; 
but, not knowing the character of his new guest, 
lie thought it prudent, to keep him in a state of 
respectful subjection. He made him, there- 
fore, understand by signs, that he should per- 
form whatever he was ordered, and abstain 
from every thing which he, his master, should 
forbid. While he instructed him thus, by signs, . 
he pronounced the word Cacique, by which 
he knew that the savages of South Ame- 
rica call their chiefs and princes. By this 
word, Friday understood, much better than by 
the signs that accompanied it, what his master 
meant ; and to show that he accepted the con- 
dition of obeying, he repeated the word Caci- 
que sevsral times with a loud voice, intimatii 



94 NEW ROBINSON CBUSOB. 

that he applied it to Robinson, he also put a 
spear into Robinson's hands, and feed the 
point against his own breast, acknowledging 
thereby that his master had the power of Kfo 
and death over him. Robinson, with the dig- 
nity of a monarch, held out his hand to him, 
assuring him of his protection, and ordered 
him again to sit down beside him, and eat his 
supper. Friday, out of respect, sat down on 
the ground, while Robinson was placed on a 
seat of turf. 

The first thing that Rol^neon did the next 
morning, was to go with Friday and examine 
the spot where the savages had held their abo- 
minable feast, Iu their walk, they came to 
the place where the two Indians were buried 
whom they had slain. Friday pointed it out 
to his master, and plainly hinted that he was 
desirous of digging up the dead bodies, and 
satisfying his unnatural appetite upon them. 
Robinson, with a look of detestation and hor- 
ror, showed him how much be disliked such an 
inclination, and, lifting up his spear, in a 
threatening manner, signified to him that he 
would run it through his body if ever he 
touched them. Friday understood, and sub- 
mitted, without hesitation, to his masters or- 
* ders; yet he could not conceive why he was 
forbidden to taste a sort of food* of which 
from his earnest youth, he had always been 
extremely fond. They soon arrived a* the 
place of the feast. What a sight! The ground 
stained with bjood! Bones scattered about! 



FEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 

Robinson turns \m eyes away from it, and 
ordered Friday immediately to make a hole, 
and bury these loathsome remains of barbarous 
voracity. 

While Friday was at work, Robinson was 
earefaHy stirring the ashes backwards and for- 
wards, in the hopes of Hading some fire stitt 
amongst them : but to no purpose ; the whole 
was extinguish^ much to luus dissatisfaction, 
tho' next to the valuable gift which Heaven 
had lately made him, in his companion, he bad 
new scarcely any thing left to wish for, ex- 
cept a fire* While be bung bis head and look- 
ed sorrowfully upon these ashes, Friday, see- 
ing ben so melancholy, made several signs 
which Robinson did not at all comprehend; 
then be snatches up the hatchet, flies off like 
lightning into the wood, leaving bis master, 
who knew not his design, in the greatest asto- 
nishment* 

Having followed him with bis eyes as' long 
as he could* "What can this mean?' said he; 4 
" Can the ungrateful fellow intend to forsake 
me? Or can he be treacherous enough to take 
possession of my dwelling-place, and keep me 
out of it by force ? r — Horrid thought! — 
Transported with rage, be se&es his spear, 
and sets out in pursuit of the ungrateful trai- 
tor, at once to punish and prevent bis base at- 
tempts. Already he was running full speed, 
when, suddenly he sees Friday holding up in 
the air a small bundta of dried grass, which 
first appeared to smoke, and then to bo on fire. 



0O NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 

He now understands the reason of Friday's 
sudden absence ; he had hastened into the wood 
on purpose to cut two dry branches. These he 
had rubbed together with such dexterity and 
dispatch, that they took fire quickly. He then 
wrapped them up in dry grass, and, running 
swiftly with his bundle held up in the air, the 
fire soon kindled the grass, and broke out in a 
blaze. Robinson was transported with joy to 
find his suspicions groundless, and himself 
once more in possession of fire, of which he 
had been so long deprived, and which he had 
so long, and so earnestly wished for. He de- 
lights to behold the waving motion of the 
flames. At last he snatches up a burning branch, 
and hastens with Friday to the cave. He in- 
stantly lights up a large fire, and places pota- 
toes round it to roast. He next runs to his 
flock, chuses out a young lama, kills it, and 
having skinned and cut it up, puts a quarter 
pf it on the spit, which he instructs Friday 
how to turn. Wnile he is thus employed, Ro- 
binson cuts off a piece from the breast of the 
•lama. He then peels a few potatoes, bruises 
and grinds some maize between two fiat stones 
to make flour of it, and puts the whole into 
one of his pots, which, after he had poured in 
a sufficient quantity of water, not forgetting 
*salt, he sets over the fire. 

Friday looked on at all these preparations, 
but did not understand to what purpose they 
; were made. He was acquainted, indeed, with 
the custom of roasting meat ; but, as to all the 



XEW ROBtSCSON CRUSOE. 97 

rest of Robinsons cookery, he was entirely in 
the dark. He knew not even the effect which fire 
would produce on a vessel full of water. The 
pqt began to boil just 31$ Robinson vent int# 
the cava upon jsorae occasion ©r othar. Fri- 
day surprised at this odd appearance, had no 
idea what couki tjws put the water in motion. 
But when he saw it bubble wp> and boil over 
tlw skies, be imagined, ja .the simplicity or* 
his heart, that fthere must he some living crea- 
ture at the b^ftem of $be pot, which occasion- 
ed this tumult m the water : and, therefore* 
he put his Hand in to aeiee the creature, what- 
ever k was; but, instead of finding that, he 
felt something which made ihim roar loud 
enough to shake the whole hilloejc." 

-Robinson startled, on (paring him cry out* 
thinking the savages were at hand, springs 
out, with the spear in his hand; but to his ut» 
ter astonishment, finds Friday all alone, cry* 
ing, twisting himself about, and making a 
thousand wry faces. Robinson stood motion- 
less, not knowing what to think; at length 
he found, after a few signs by way of explana* 
tien, that all this out-cry was occasioned by 
poor Friday's scalding his hand*. 

Rohpsou did not easily succeed in com* 
foiling Friday, who ,had never discovered by 
his own experience that , water could be made 
to boil, and therefore could not understand 
from whence 4he sudden pain proceeded which 
he felt on dipping his hand into the boiling 
water. But the broth, the potatoes, a^U %b* 




KO«tfS«K CR«7S0» AI.ARMRD AT rRIDAY'PgWM. 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. D9 

roast- meat, were now ready.' As they had no 
spoons, Robinson poured out the broth into 
t two pipkins, but nothing could induce Friday 
so much as to taste it. It made him shudder 
to see Robinson sip it with so much appearance 
of satisfaction ; but he helped himself to the 
roast meat and potatoes, which made him 
amends. You may easily imagine how deli- 
cious these nourishing victuals, drest properly 
on the fire, must seem to Robinson. They 
made him forget all his past troubles and liard- 
ships, and, it is hardly necessary to add that, 
in that happy moment, he remembered the 
. Giver of all good things, and thanked him 
from the bottom of his heart. 

The meal being finished, Robinson retired 
to meditate seriously on the happy change of 
his situation. Every tiling round him wore a 
more smiling face. He was no, longer solitary: 
he had a companion with whom he might hope 
in time to hold converse. Besides, being, no 
longer deprived of fire, l»e might enjoy as 
wholesome and agreeable victuals as he could 
wish. " What is there to hinder you now," 
said he, " from living contented and happy ? 
Enjoy in peace the many benefits which you 
have received from Heaven. You have fruits 
in abundance, and a numerous flock, which 
will always be more than sufficient to furnish 
your table with whatever you desire. Make 
amends , to yourself, now, by ease and good 
cheer, for the fatigues you have suffered, and 
the scantiness of your provision* for these 
f2 



100 NEW ROBINSON CRUSO«. 

several years past* Let Friday, who is young 
and stout, -work for you. His services you 
have a right to claim, as you bare saved his 
life at the risk of your own." 

u But/' said Ire t© himself, " what, rf you 
were very soon to see an end of all this pros- 
perity? If Friday were to die? If your 
fire' were to go out again? If, moreover, you 
were to renounce labour and temperance, you 
would soon forget both the adversity which 
you surmounted, and the friendly hand which 
assisted you. Very soon you would become 
ungrateful, presumptuous, and perhaps, impi- 
ous." Horrid idea ! and falling or his face to 
the ground, he prayed to be preserved from so 
dreadful a state of deprivation. This led him to 
take a resolution as prudent as H was onaltera 1 - 
ble. w I will," said he, " partake of the gifts of 
HeaveiJ, But always with the greatest tempe- 
rance. I win* persevere in my labours with 
the same assiduity, though they wiB no longer 
he so necessary to me as formerly. One day 
ift each week, I will live on the same victuals 
with which I have hitherto subsisted myself; 
and the last day of each month I wiH confine 
myself to the same solitude as I have expe* 
rienced ever since I have been on this island. 
I wHl send Friday to *nf country seat, and he 
•hall pass that day there." Having formed 
these resolutions of self-denial, he felt the 
pleasing and pure satisfaction which ever* ac- 
companies the efforts that we make to improve 
in virtue. He foresaw the happy consequences 



NEW ROB I NSOW CRUSOE. 1 01 

of these voluntary sacrifices; kit countenance 
therefore, becoming more serene, spoke the 
pleasing sentiments of a heart overflowing 
with joy. But he was sufficiently acquainted, 
from experience, with the inconstancy of the 
human heart, not to be on hie guard again* 
the fickleness of his own. He thought it heat 
to make some visible mark, which, frequently 
meeting his eyes, might make him recollect 
his laudable resolutions every day. For this 
purpose, he engraved, with bis hatchet, in the 
rock over the entrance of his cave, these words, 
Labour and Ternp&rance. 

He bad never been in so happy a situation 
since his arrival on the island as he was now. 
The only thing that remained to trouble him, 
was hie apprehension lest the savages should 
return to seek for their two countrymen, in 
which case he might probably be exposed to 
the necessity of shedding blood. He shud- 
dered at the thought of being reduced, once 
more, to the dreadful choice of either destroy- 
ing his fellow-creatures er perishing cruelly 
himself. Things being, therefore, in this situ- 
ation, it was incumbent on him to put himself 
into a state of defence. He had long been 
desirous of fortifying hi* habitation still more ; 
but while he was akme, it ajppeatfed impossible. 
He resolved, therefore, on the outside of the 
barricade of trees, which enclosed his habitation, 
to dig a broad deep trench,' the inner bank of 
which should be defeftied with a strong row 

-j ft Digitized by VnO 



102 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

of paling. . He, moreover, conceived the de- 
sign of dividing the neighbouring rivulet into 
two branches, one of which should run in this 
trench, and the other through the middle of 
the enclosed space before his cave, that, in „ 
case of a siege, he might not be in want of 
water. 

It was not easy to make Friday comprehend 
by signs, the whole of this plan ; but as soon 
as he had some idea of it, he ran to the sea- 
side, and came back loaded with great shells, 
and with flat and sharp stones, fit to serve for 
digging/ They, both, therefore, fell to work 
immediately. You can easily imagine that it 
was no slight undertaking. The trench, to be 
of any use, must be, at least, six feet deep and - 
eight broad ; the length about four score or 
one hundred yards. 

To execute such an undertaking as this with- 
out any instrument of iron— no pickaxe — no 
shovel — think what a difficulty it must be. — 
Besides, it required little less than four hun- 
dred pales ; to cut these and shape them with 
only a hatchet of stone, was a laborious task. 
Lastly, in order to turn the rivulet into this 
trench, there was a necessity of digging a 
canal, which, in one place, must cross a rising 
ground; and this, it was absolutely necessary 
to cut through. 

All these obstacles did not discourage our 
friend Robinson, whose motto in beginning 
every work of labour and time was with God's 
help, and with perseverance ; and when once he 



SEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 103 

was determined tm a matter, he never rested 
until he had completely finished it. It was the 
same on "this occasion. Friday and he worked 
every day with equal pleasure and earnestness* 
from sunrise to sunset; so that in spite of the 
awkwardness of their instruments, . they ad* 
vanced the work surprisingly. During two 
whole months, also, the savages never appeared ; 
a contrary wind hindering them from coming 
over to Robinson s island. 

Robinson who was earnestly desirous of 
being able to converse with Friday, took tha 
opportunity to teach him a few words of En* 
glish every day, while they were both em- 
ployed at work; and by these means, in less 
than six months he was able to explain himself 
tolerably well in English. 
• This was a fresh addition to Robinson's hap- 
piness. Hitherto Friday had been no better 
than a dumb man to him, now they are able. 
to communicate their thoughts to each other 
as friends. How frivolous did the pleasure 
seem which Robinson used to enjoy in the 
senseless chatter of bis parrot, in comparison 
to the real satisfaction which he felt at present ? 
The more he knew Friday, the more he 
liked him. The young man was frank and 
good-natured, and- had the greatest affection 
possible for his master ; so that Robinson grew 
fonder of htm every day, and made him take 
share of his cave, that they might pass -the 
nights together. 

» » digitized by LiOO ( 



104 lltW HOEUK80K CJtUSCO. 

In let* than two months they finished the 
trench : and now they flew themselves capable 
of defying the savages, for before any one of 
them could cross the trench and the paling, h 
WM an ensy matter for the two besieged to 
•end an arrow or a- spear through bis body. 

Robinson and Friday* being one day near 
the tea side upon s rising ground, from whence 
they had an extensive prospect all over the sea* 
perceived, at a distance, some islands, which 
appeared like small clouds. Friday fixed his 
eyes attentively on that quarter* All of a 
sudden be starts up, and throws himself into 
•o many extravagant attitudes, that Robinson 
thought he was seized with frenzy. Robinson 
asked htm the cause of this extraordinary trans- 
port. " Yonder is my country P answered 
he, almost breathless with joy ; " that is where 
my people live !" This was certainly a lau- 
dable one, as it showed that he loved his 
country, his friends, and his relations; never- 
theless, Robinson feared he would leave him 
some ctay ©r otlier, and return to his own island. 
In order to be certified on this bead, be re- 
solved to sound his intentions, and, therefore* 
began the following conversation, which will 
show you the excellent disposition of Friday. 

** Should you be glad, then, tm return to 
ynur countrymen ?>' '♦' Oh, yes; I should be 
Very gted to see them again." " Perhaps you 
long to eat men's flesh with them agem?"— 
" No, I would teach them to live on milk and 
the flesh of animals, and above ail. to abstain 

Digitized by VjOOQLC 



NfiW ItOfllKSON CftUSOE. 105 

from eating: men/' ** But perhaps, tltey would 
eat yourself." " No, they will neve* do so." 
•* And yet they have devoured many men." 
*' Aye, but onty their enemies/' " Coukl you 
make a canoe that would carry you to them ?** 
" Yes, certainly-" " Wetf, then make o*e, 
and set out when you please.— How you look 
down! What is the matter with you? Why 
do you look so sorrowful/' " Because my 
dear master is angry with me." " Angry ! 
what makes you think so?" " Because he 
wants to send me away/' ♦* Well, but did not 
you wish just now to he in your own country ?" 
" Yes, but if my master does Hot go there, I 
will not go-^-no— no more." ** Your people 
would take me for an enemy «nd eat me, so 
you must jro by yourself.— But what is the 
meaning of this ? Why do you draw the hatchet 
from my side, and put it into my hand ? Why 
do you lay down your bead, and stretch out 
your neck — What would you have me do?" 
** Kill me : I Would rather die than be sent 
away from you.'* Saying these words be shed 
a flood of tears. Robinson was melted with 
tenderness. •• Be comforted, my dear Friday; 
I love you too well to wish a separation from 
you : what I said was only to try you, and 
to know if your friendship is equal to mme." 
Let us dry up our tears, and never part." 

To dissipate the sorrowful ideas excited in 
Friday's mind, ho spoke to him again of a 
canoe, and having asked him several questions 
upon that subject, he fed him to see the can*** 



106 .NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

that he had begun some years ago. Friday on 
examining it, laughed heartily to find the work 
so little advanced for the time. The tree 
was scarcely cut into the third part of its thick- 
ness. Robinson asked him what fault he found 
in the work. Friday answered, that he 'could 
see a vast deal of time had been lost, and labour 
thrown away, which might have been spared; 
for that a tree like this could be hollowed in 
a few days with fire, and that much better than 
by any other means whatsoever. At these 
words Robinson was* transported with joy; he 
fancied the canoe already finished; he fancied 
himself already sailing in it on the open seas 
already, after a happy voyage, he fancied him- 
self landed on the continent and conversing 
with Europeans. He resolved that the work 
should be begun the very next morning by 
break of day. 

On that day the rains began, and set in with 
great violence. Robinson, during his stay on 
the island, had remarked, that they, take place 
regularly about the middle of JMarch and Sep- 
tember. During this rainy season, which ger 
nerally lasted a month or two, it was impossible 
to do any work in the open air, it rained so hard 
and so incessantly. 

What a happiness for Robinson during these 
wet days, and the long dark evenings of this 
season, to have fire and light, besides the* com- 
pany of a friend, with whom, while Jthey were 
both at work together, he might converse fa- 
miliarly, and fill up the wearisome hours with 
agreeable discourse ! 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107 

Of the bark of trees, Friday could make 
mats of a texture sufficiently fine and firm at 
the same time to make a sort of stuff proper 
for clothing. Robinson haying learned the 
manner of this work, made in conjunction 
with Friday, a stock sufficient for clothing 
them both: and it was no small satisfaction 
to him that he was now able to quit those in- 
convenient garments made of hard raw hides, 
which he had hitherto been obliged to wear. 
' Friday had also the art of making cordage 
out of the stringy covering of the cocoa-nut 
and the bark of plants resembling flax; and 
this cordage was far superior to any that 
Robinson could make. He had, also, a par- 
ticular method of making nets, with thread ; 
an occupation which seemed to render many 
an evening short that would otherwise have 
been insuppqrjably tedious. 

During these sedentary employments, Ro- 
binson took pains to clear up the darkness of 
his friend's understanding. He endeavoured 
particularly, to give him just ideas of the 
Supreme Being. He taught him that God is 
an invisible being, almighty, infinitely wise 
and good; that he created all things, governs 
and upholds all things ; that he himself is with- 
out beginning, is every where present, knows 
all our thoughts, hears our words, and sees all 
bur actions ; that he delights in good, and 
abhors evil, that man by his disobedience 
justly forfeited the favour of his Creator, but 
"was restored to it by the atoning sacrifice ~ f 



108 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 

out blessed Saviour, who offered himself on 
the cross to redeem us from sin and death, and 
that he will make happy in this life, and in that 
which is to come, those who sincerely repeat 
and endeavour, with all their heart, and with 
all their strength, to become better and better 
avery day. Friday heard these sublime and 
comfortable doctrines with a respectful atten- 
tion, and lodged them deeply in his memory. 
Nor did the reflection escape him, that Pro- 
vidence was kind in suffering him to fall into 
the bands of his enemies, since, had it not 
been for that eveut, he should never have 
known Robinson. " Thus," added he, " I 
should always have lived in ignorance of the 
Being who is all good and all powerful." 

The dull rainy season passed away without 
appearing heavy to them. The sky cleared 
up, the stormy clouds were dispersed ; now, 
therefore, Robinson and his companion joy- 
fully set about the important work which they 
had designed before the rains came on. 

Friday> as being head carpenter in tin's 
business, hollowed the trunk of the tree by 
means of fire. This method was so effectual 
and expeditious, that the boat, which Robin* 
son alone could scarcely have finished in 
several years, was entirely completed, with the 
assistance of Friday, in two months. Nothing 
was wanting now hut a sail which Friday 
undertook to provide, from the matting made 
of the bark of trees, and oars, which Robinson 
promised to furnish. And now their next car* 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

Was to add a half-deck to the boat, which 
might keep their provisions dry, and afford 
them, a place where they could lie down in 
turns, should any accident cause their voy- 
age to be longer than they expected; .they 
also fitted a rudder to the stern, looping 
it behind with cords. , The place where they 
had made the boat, was* more than half a mile 
from the sea side. How were they to get it* 
thither? Must they carry it, or drag it, or 
roll it along? Each of these ways seemed 
equally impracticable ; the canoe was too 
heavy to be so jnanaged. What are they to 
do? Here they were at a full stop? how 
were they to get over it ? 

Robinson had not forgotten the use that 
might be made of the lever; in fact, he 
had recourse to it upon this occasion; but 
the method was so tedious, that he expect- 
ed to be a month before he should convey 
the canoe to the sea-side. Fortunately, he 
thought of another method, to the full as sim- 
ple, which is used by carpenters and other 
tradesmen in Europe, for carrying the heavi- 
est burthens. They use rollers for the pur- 
pose, which are pieces of wood made long 
and round, something like a rolling-stone.— 
They are placed under the loads which, are to 
be conveyed from one place to another. A 
man pushes the load at one end, which yields 
without much resistance, and moves on to- 
wards the place whither it is to be conveyed, 

C Digitized by GoOgle 



110 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the rollers turning under it all the wliile, as 
if of themselves. 

Robinson no sooner made a trial of this 
method, but be was highly pleased To see with 
what ease and dispatch the boat could be mov- 
ed along, and in two days time it was launch- 
ed in the sea. His joy was double^ when he 
saw $at if sailed with the greatest steadi- 
ness. 

It only remained, to lay in a stock of pro- 
visions as much as the boat could carry, and 
then to sef 8a M> both being equally eager to 
begin the yoyage. But where were they to 
go? Friday's wishes were to return to his 
native island; Robinson, for his part, would 
have been glad to land on the continent of 
South America, where he hoped to meet either 
with Spaniards or other Europeans. Friday's 
island was only about four league^ ofl", and 
the continent Was more than a dozen or four- 
teen. If they {ande^l first on his island, ^ ne 7 
w^nt some miles, farther off fVonx the eonti- 
ne it, and, by so doing, encreased $e danger 
of sailing thither, afterward^. 

At length, Robinson's uncertainty gave 
place to a, fixe4 desire of seeking W land on 
Borne civilized country. In spite of aM Fri- 
day's objections, it was det^nnined tba$ they 
should prepare to depart the next morning, 
and set sail, under Gods protection, w*tb 
the first favourable wind, for that quarter 
where Friday expected the nearest part °( $* 
continent lay; i 'A 

' ' ■ Digitized by LnOOgle 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 111 

Robinson, on coming out of his cave for 
the last time, stopped upon the top of the hil- 
lock to meditate for a moment,* and suffered 
his companion to go on before him. Me re- 
viewed, in his own mind, the various situations 
in which he had been, during his solitary stay 
on this island, and, when he recollected the 
singular care with which Providence had sup- 
ported him in a most extraordinary manner, 
his heart was moved with gratitude. He 
shed tears of joy, and, lifting up his hands 
and eyes to Heaven, lie addressed the Al- 
mighty with the most fervent devotion. Like 
a man who is quitting his native land without 
hopes of ever seeing it again, his moist and 
sorrowful eyes wandered still with affection 
over every tree which had once afforded him 
shelter or an agreeable shade, and over every 
one of tliose works which owed their being 
to the labour of his hands and the sweat of 
his brow. All these objects seemed like so 
many friends from whom he was going to be 
separated. Wliat were his feelings, when he 
perceived his lamas feeding at the foot of the 
liiHock ! If he had not quickly turned his 
eyes from these dear animals, his resolution 
to depart would have been shaken* How- 
ever, at length, he recovered his courage — 
With his arms open and stretched out towards 
the country, as if he would have embraced it 
together with all the objects that it contained* 

Digitized by LiOOQ 1C 



112 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

" Farewel," cried be, with a loud voice,— 
" farewel, ye witnesses of my past sufferings ; 
for the last time farewel!*' But this last 
farewel was lost in sobs. Lifting, once more, 
his eyes to Heaven, he went on without far- 
ther hesitation towards the sea-side. As he 
went along, he perceived his faithful Poll,, 
who accompanied him, flying beside him from 
tree to tree. He felt an irresistible desire 
to take Poll with him: he, therefore, held, 
out his hand, and calls the parrot by its name* 
Poll comes flying to him, lights upon his. 
hand, runs swiftly up bis arm, and rests upon , 
his shoulder. Robinson now overtook Friday, 
who was waiting for him with impatience; 
and they both went aboard without further 
delay. 

It was the 30th of November, at eight o'clock 
in the morning, the ninth year of Robinson's 
stay upon this desert island, that they set sail 
with clear weather, and a fresh and favourable 
breeze. , They had hardly got a few miles 
out to sea before they met with a reef of 
rocks, which reached from a promontory of 
the island, more than four leagues out into 
the sea. It seemed dangerous to sail over 
these rocks: they, therefore, tacked; in order 
that, by taking a sweep round, they might get 
on the outside of the reef. 

Scarcely had they gained the outmost point 
of the reef, when, all at once, their canoe , 
was carried away with as much rapidity as if 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



o 

82 




G S 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



114 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they had many sails set, and were going be- 
fore a strong gala of wind. They were both 
terrified, and made haste to furl their sail, be- 
cause they thought they had been surprised 
by a smart breeze. But this was in vain; for 
the canoe was carried aver the billows no less 
rapidly than before ; and they were now so far 
out at sea, as to hare lost sight of the coast of 
their island. Their destruction appeared 
inevitable; for, in less than half an hour 
more, they would lose sight of the tops 
of the highest hilfe upon k; after that, let 
the impetuosity of the current cease sooner or 
later, they could not possibly recover the is* 
land, having no compass to direct their 
course. 

His companion*, whoso piety was neither so 
firmly established, nor so well tried by the 
number and duration- of his distresses, as that 
of his master, was hi the- height of despair. 
Unable to work, and absolutely bereft of afl 
courage, he rests on bin ee*v looks at his 
master with a hopeless, disconsolate air, and 
asks him whether they shall plunge themselves 
into the sea, to prevent at oneey by a speedy 
death, the terrors of that lingering one which 
seemed inevitably, to await them. Robinson 
at first spoke to him affectionately, and endea- 
voured to reanimate his courage; he then mild- 
ly reproached him for not putting his trust 
in the wisdom of God, who disposes of every 
thing for the best; and briefly reminded him 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



NEW ltOtflNSON cnusoK. 1 15 

of all that he had already taught him upon this 
subject. " Is it only upon land," said be, 
" that we are in the hands of the Almighty ? 
Is he not also master of the ocean? Do you 
think, that by throwing yourself into the sea, 
ydu could escape from the dangers which 
threaten you. Learn, inconsiderate young 
man, that your immortal soul will, during 
eternity* be under the boundless empire of the 
Almighty*" 

Friday was sensibly affected with the truth 
of these wholesome exhortations* and blushed 
for- his own weakness. He immediately took 
up his oar again, and they both continued to 
row, although they had not the smallest hope 
that all their efforts could save them. Robin- 
son said, " we are but doing our duty ; for 
while we have a spark of life remaining, we 
are bound to do every thing in our power to 
save it. If we fail, we die with the comfort- 
able assurance that such is the will of the Su- 
preme Being; and his will is ever wise, even 
when we, miserable worms, cannot interpret it." 

The rapidity of the current continued still 
the same ; they could now see no more of the 
island than the tops of the hills; and a little 
after, even of them, they could discover but one 
the very highest, and that was lessening to their 
view very fast ; in short, all hope of being saved 
was vanished. 

But when all human assistance fails, then 
often comes in aid the powerful hand of Him 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



116 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

wfco governs all things ; and tbe man who was 
on tbe point of perishing, is saved, by means 
which he never could have foreseen. This ap- 
peared in the present critical moment. Robinson 
had lost all hope of avoiding a speedy death; 
but at the very moment when, exhausted with 
fatigue, he was obliged to cease rowing, he 
perceived that the swiftness of the boat's mo- 
tion abated all at once: he observed also, that 
the water did not appear so muddy as before; 
and casting his eyes over tbe surface of the 
sea, he farther remarked that the current 
parted into two unequal branches, the largest 
ef which ran violently towards the North, 
while the other, less rapid, turned short to 
the South, and in this latter, the canoe hap- 
pened to take its course. Transported with 
joy, he addresses himself to his companion, 
who was half dead with fear. " Courage, 
Friday ! We shall still be preserved !" And 
immediately he pointed out to him the cir- 
cumstances upon which he founded his hope. 
-*They both, therefore, took up their oars 
again, which fatigue had made them let go. — 
And exerting their last efforts to get out of 
the current, saw, with infinite satisfaction, 
. that, now, their labour was not ineffectual. — 
Robinson, who, from a long series of disap- 
pointments, was accustomed to let nothing 
slip his attention, observed, at this moment, 
that the wind would be of service to them : 
he, therefore, quickly unfurled the sail, which, 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 117 

catching the breeze, helped,, together with 
their redoubled exertions in rowing, to carry 
them very soon out of the current into a 
smooth sea. 

Friday was ready to jump for joy ; he rose 
up to embrace his master, who, however, 
begged him to suspend his transports for a 
moment, as there remained a good deal still to 
be done before they could think themselves 
completely out of danger. In fact, they had 
been carried out to sea so, far, that they could 
barely perceive their island, like a very small 
cloud. 

Our two intrepid sailors rowed with so 
much perseverance, and a prosperous breeze 
pushed them on so favourably towards the 
Eastern coast of the- island, which they had 
quitted, that they very soon began to see the 
mountains .again. "Come, my friend," said 
Robinson to. Friday, . who sat; toward the head 
of the boat, with his back to the island, " come, 
Friday, we are near the end of , our toil." He 
had scarcely finished these words before the 
canoe received so violent a shock, that the two 
rowers were tbrown from their seats, and fell 
down at their length in the bottom of the boat, 
which now stuck fast, and, was soon covered 
with waves that broke over it. 

Robinson made haste to feel all round the 
canoe with .his oar, and finding no more than 
about two feet depth of water, and a tolerably 
hard bottom, he jumped, without more ado, 

c4 



118 NBW ROBINSON CRUSOK. 

into the sea. Friday did the same, and they 
both recovered their spirits, on finding that 
the canoe wae stuck upon a bank .of sand, and 
not upon a rock. They united their strength 
to free the boat from the sand* by pushing it 
towards that side where the water was deepest?. 
They succeeded, and when it was afloat they 
got into it again* 

After they had emptied the boat of the water 
that was ia> it, using, for that purpose, their 
oars and the hollow of their hands* as Well as 
they- could, they resolved to be more careful?, 
and to use only their oars without a sail, that 
they might be better able to guide the boat* at 
their pleasure. They rowed, therefore, to 
clear the sand bank, keeping close by the side 
of it, in hopes of soon coming to its end. 
This, however, they- did not reach till after 
four hours rowing, to such a length the bank 
extended from North to South. Robinson 
remarked that it reached to the very spot wheie 
he. was shipwrecked nine years before, and, 
indeed, that this bank was really the same 
upon which the ship had* struck. At length/ 
as they were come into a part of the sea that 
was open and navigable, they rowed with all 
their strength to arrive at the island, which 
they now saw pretty near them* They came 
up to it just as tjie sun was setting, and his 
hsatna only to be seen upen the tops of tffc* 
hillsy and they landed, grate 1 spent with fatigue, 
but infinitely pleased and thankful ^^put o# 

ger. 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 

They had neither of them taken any food 
the whole day; therefore, without waiting 
until they should arrive at the cave for a 
refreshment so absolutely necessary to them, 
they sat down upon the beach and ate heartily 
of thfe provisions that they had brought with 
them. When their meal was ended, they dreW 
up the boat into a creek, and then retired to 
their cfcve to rest. . 

Robinson, at breakfast time, spoke to his 
companion thus: «» Well, Friday, do you find 
yourself disposed to make a second attempt 
With me . td-day, like that which we made 
yesterday ?" "No, indeed!" "Then you are 
determined to spend your days with me in this 
island." " All ! if my father Was here with 
us !" « Then your father is still alive ?" " tFri- 
less he has died since I left him." Here Friday, 
who was deeply affected, let fall the potato 
that he held in his hand, and shed a flood of 
tears. Nor could Robinson contain his, when 
he thought of his parents. Lost in the tender 
recollection of former scenes, they both main* 
tairiefd a long and deep silence. " Be com- 
forted, Friday; your father is probably still 
aflive'. We will go and find hi in out the first 
convenient day, and bring him hither." 

This was joyful news for Friday: it put 
him almdst beside bihiseif : he falls' at Robin- 
son's feet to thank him, but, in the fulness of 
his heart, he is not 'able' to titter a word; 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



180 NEW ROBINSON CKUSGK. 

Whea the transports of Friday's joy were 
.a little calmed, Robinson asked him if he 
knew the passage over to his father's island so 
well as to be certain that, if they undertook 
it, they should not be exposed to dangers like 
those which they had experienced the day 
before. Friday assured him that he knew the 
passage perfectly, and would undertake it with 
confidence, even by night; that he had sailed 
it several times with his countrymen, when 
they came to this island to feast after their 
victories. 

" Then you were amongst them when they 
killed men and ate them ?" *5 Certainly" — 
" And you took your share with them too ?" 
" Alas ! I knew not there was any harm in it." 
" On which side of the island did you gene- 
rally land ?" " Always on the south side, as 
being the nearest to our island, and also be- 
cause cocoa-nuts are to be found there in 
plenty." 

This was an additional proof to Robinson 
that he should thank God for having suffered 
him to be shipwrecked rather upon the North- 
ern coast than on the Southern, as, in this latter 
ease, he would soon have fallen a prey to the 
savages. He then repeated his promise to 
Friday, that he would shortly cross over with 
him to his island, and endeavour to find his 
father. He made him sensible, however, that 
this was not to be done immediately,, as the 
present season was precisely the time for 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121 

working in the garden, and this important 
business would by no means permit them to 
be absent. 

They, therefore, set about this work without 
delay. During the intervals of rest, they em- 
ployed themselves in finding out means to 
improve their gardening tools. Robinson, 
whose patience and invention were equally 
inexhaustible, made a rake, though he had no 
more than a sharp-pointed stone to make the 
holes which were to receive the teeth : from 
the nature of the instrument that he used, one 
may guess how long he was in ' making them* 
Friday, for his part, contrived, with a sharp 
stone, to make two spades of such very hard 
wood, that they were nearly of the same 
strength and effect as if they had been made 
of iron ; indeed, from its great hardness, it has 
been called iron-wood. 

Assisted by these implements, they planted 
potatoes, and sowed maize ; both in great 
quantities ; and, as the soil was excellent, 
whatever they sowed sprung up favourably, 
and brought them a plentiful crop. • 

At times, they went a fishing with the nets 
which Friday had made during the rainy sea- 
son, and always caught more of the finny tribe 
than they could consume: they, therefore, 
released those which they thought superfluous, 
throwing them back into their own element. 
" It is abusing God's gifts/' Robinson sensibly 
observed, « to grasp at more t^j fe necessary 



128 raw hobinson causes* 

to satisfy our wants ; add it 19 an odious cftf- 
eity to . take away the lives of harmless animals, 
when we are not about to use them for our 
mfUftlBliiBenfc" 

After" fishing, they generally bathed* K*- 
kinson eouid not sufficiently admire Friday's 
cleverness in swimming and diving. He com- 
nitatry chow some steep rock against which 
the wav,es broke* He would east himself head- 
(stag- from the top of this rodk into the sea, 
remain some minutes under water, and by the 
time that Robinson war become uneasy about 
him, he would pop his beattuj) ail at ones, and 
then throw himself into a great many' different 
positions. Sometimes they Went a fowling 1 or 
hunting. Friday was no less skilled in using 
the bow and arrow than in making them;— 
Ttiey killed birds and young lamas, but never 
more than were requisite* For Robinson com 
tittered it very btemeable to kill riny animal 
whatsoever, for mere amusement, and without 
tf view of conventency . 

Whatever superiority Robinson h%d &r& 
Friday in understanding' and' industry, the 
tetter, in: his turn; wdr possessed of much 
skill and. dexterity, to which his' master had 
beeii at stranger. He bad the art of making* 
out of bones, shells, stones, &e. ail sorts' of 
tools; which We used very desrterotttly in carv- 
iag woodj the work< of' whidk seemed alaftis? 
as weii executed as if out With iro& Wfth" 
tin** tesls, be* pw*Me$ tor their* apatmmt 



2fBW ftGBTtfSOW CRtfSO*. 123 

many pieces of furniture, which contributed 
to render their situation much more common 

dtOUH. 

When their worfi; in the garden' was finish- 
ed, they fixed* upon a day tt> go in quesv etf 
Fridays father; but the netfrefc the time ap- 
proached, the mo*e> Robinson's* anxiety iw- 
ereasedw " What? if these savages}" said he 
to himself "should pay «o- regard to any 
things that Friday can say? What if you 
should fell a prey *> their monstrous appetites?'' 
He could not help communicating all these 
apprehensions to his Mend: Friday protested 
to him, that these fears' wetie ill-founded ; thai 
his 7 countrymen were' incapable of using those 
ill who* were not then* enemies; Robinson* 
therefore, banished all fear* and' suspicion, de- 
pended upon Friday's good' faith* and resold 
ed' to set. sail the very next day. With this 
intention, they again floated their cttnoe* 
which had been drawn up on the beach, and 
moored it to a stake fixed in the ground. — < 
The same evening they Attested a quantity of 
potatoes, and*, prepared other provisions, in- 
tending to lay ma stock for at least' eighth 
days; 

Robinson ahd Friday that same evening 
might have been asleep about' half an hour, 
when the former waft suddenly awakened by a 
violent stormy which began and was' air the; 
height' almost in the same inetauti The rottf" 
ing of the win* was dreadful, afcd* the eartfe* 



124 NEW ROB-INSON CRUSOE. 

■hook with repeated daps of thunder. " Do 
you hear this?" said Robinson to Friday* 
awakening him. " I do i" replied he, " and 
am thinking what would have become of us 
if we had been surprised at sea in such wea- 
ther?" Just at that moment they heard the 
report of a gun at a great distance. 

Friday ' thought it was thunder ; Robinson 
however was firmly persuaded that a gun had 
been fired. He .starts up from bed, runs to 
the fire-place, snatches up a burning piece of 
wood, and mounts his ladder of ropes. Friday 
followed his master's example, without know- 
ing what his intentions were, and both made 
haste to kindle a large fire upon the top of the 
hillock, to signify to the people at sea in dis- 
tress that they would. find a safe refuge upon the 
island: for Robinson had not the least, doubt 
that there was some ship in distress near at handy 
and that the report of the gun which he heard 
was a signal of their danger. But scarcely had 
the fire begun to blaze up before there came such 
a shower of rain as put it out in a moment* 
Robinson and Friday were obliged to hasten to 
the cave, for fear of being carried away by the 
water, which ran in floods. The whistling of the* 
wind, the roaring of loud bursts of thunder, 
all sounded with redoubled tumult ; v and 
though, in the midst of this tremendous . agi- 
tation of the elements, Robinson thought* he 
could distinguish now and then some reports of 
«annon, yet he doubted whether they might not 

Digitized by VjOO*?IC 



. NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 125 

be the bursting of thunder at a distance. ' How- 
ever, notwithstanding his doubts, he indulged 
himself witli the flattering thought that there 
might be a ship near at hand, the captain of 
which, if he escaped the danger of this dreadful 
storm, might take him and his faithful Friday 
on board, and cany them to Europe. Ten 
times he attempted to light the fire, and ten 
times the rain put it out. All that remained 
in his power to do for the unfortunate people 
who were struggling against shipwreck and 
death, he did : he prayed for them with the 
greatest devotion. 

It was day-break before the storm ceased. 
As soon as it was clear, Robinson, 'suspended 
between hope and fear, went to the sea-side 
accompanied by Friday, to ascertain whether 
his conjectures were well or ill founded. But 
the first discovery that they made filled Ro- 
binson with grief, and almost plunged Fri- 
day into despair. The wind had driven their 
boat out to sea. It would have melted any 
one with compassion to witness Friday's ex- 
cessive grief, when he saw himself disappoint- 
ed in the pleasing hope of soon returning to 
his father. Suddenly his grief bursts forth 
into floods of tears, and be beats his breast 
and tears his hair, sobbing all the while as if 
his heart would break. 

Robinson had learned, from his own mis- 
fortunes, to feel for those of others. He was 
touched with Friday's grief; be felt for hit 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



126 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

situation, and endeavoured to comfort him by 
exhortations, so full of tenderness and good 
sense, that he soon recovered his composure, 
*nd submitted to the will of Providence. In 
the mean time, Robinson did not cease to 
cast bis eyes round to every part of the vast 
ocean that was open to his view; but tbete 
was not the smallest appearance of a vessel in 
sight. 

Still uneasy, he went to a Very high bill, 
from the top of which he could view the east- 
ern coast, and climbing with all speed up to 
the summit, he cast his eyes round the sea— 
But what was his joy when he sees a ship 
and* notwithstanding the) distance, he sees it 
so distinctly as to be convinced that it is one* 
and of pretty large burthen. He flies to his 
cave, and arrives quite out of breath. He 
matches up his arms, without which he never 
Went to any great distance* and unable to say 
any more to Friday* who was astonished to 
see him in such a hurry, than these words,— 
" There they are ! quick I quick !" He re- 
mounts the ladder of ropes, and sets off again 
with the utmost precipitation. 

From his master's hurry and confusion* and 
the few words that he spoke, Friday supposed 
the savages to be at hand ; taking up his arms, 
therefore, he followed him with all speed.— 
They had several miles to go before they 
came to that part of the shore, off which the 
vessel seemed to lie at anchor; nor did ftiday 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



VSW ROBfKSON CKUSOfr l%1 

learn the cause of his master's hurry until 
he arrived at the spot. Robinson showed him 
the ship apparently at anchor at a distance. — 
Friday could not conceal his astonishment ; 
for, notwithstanding the distance, he guessed 
it must be at bast a hundred times bigger' 
than any thing which he had ever sees of the 
kind. 

He endeavoured to make the people on 
board hear him, but to no purpose, though 
the wind had changed during the storm, and 
blew, at present, off the island towards the 
ship. He then kindled a fire, which might 
be seen by the people on board. He had his 
eyes constantly fixed upon the ship, expect-* 
ing every moment to see them lower a boat, 
flttd send it towards the shore. But h» ex- 
pectations Were all hi vain. 

At last, Friday offered to swim to the ship 
notwithstanding its distance, and invite the 
crew to come on shore. Robinson joyfully 
consented to this, on condition, however, 
that he should take care not to expose him-' 
self rashly, nor neglect any thing for the 
preservation of his life. Immediately Friday 
strips off his clothes of matting, cuts a branch, 
and, holding it between his teeth, as a sign 
of peace, springs boldly into the waves. Ro- 
binson accompanied him with his eyes ami 
wishes. 

He arrived safe at the vessel, and swam 
round it twice or thrice, catting the people, 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



128 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

but nobody answered. Perceiving the' ladder 
at the ship's side, he went up by it, holding 
the branch in his hand. 

When he was high enough to see all over 
the deck, he saw an animal, such as he had 
never seen in his life; it was covered with 
black woolly hair, and as soon as it saw Fri-* 
day, it uttered such noises as perfectly sur- 
prised him. However, it soon ceased crying 
out, and appeared so mild, and approached ia 
a manner so humble, and crept along wagging 
its tail and whining so plaintively, that Fri- 
day supposed it to be entreating his help and 
protection. When it had crept close up to 
him, and stopped, Friday ventured to pat it, 
and the creature seemed transported with joy* 
While he was lost in admiration of the many 
surprising objects that he saw on the deck, 
and was standing with his back to the hatch- 
way, he received, all of a sudden, so violent 
a blow behind, that he fell flat on his face- 
Getting up in a great fright, he looks round 
him, and stands petrified with consternation, 
on beholding a creature of pretty large size, 
with crooked horns, and a long bushy beard,, 
rearing itself upon its hind legs, and preparr 
ing, with a threatening air, to make a second 
attack upon him. . Friday roared out as loud 
as he was able, and jumped into the sea. 

The first of these animals, which was* a 
water spaniel, in imitation of Friday, jumps 
also into the water, and swims after him.—* 

Digitized by VaOOQ IC 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 129 

Iriday, bearing the noise of something that 
fell into the water behind him, imagined the 
horned monster to be pursuing him. He was 
so terrified at the thought, that he was scarcely 
able to swim, and ran great danger of. drown- 
ing: a fresh instance, from which we see how 
hurtful the passion of fear is, since it hurries 
us into dangers, to which we should never be 
exposed, if we did not suffer ourselves to be 
overpowered by it. 

< He did not even dare to look behind him : 
however, after he had a little recovered from 
his fright, he swam so fast that the spaniel 
could scarcely keep up with him. When he 
reached the shore, being unable to speak, he 
fell down quite spent at Robinson's feet. The 
spaniel landed a few minutes after. 

. Robinson spared no pains to bring his faith- 
ful companion to himself. He rubbed his tem- 
ples, shook him, and called him aloud by his 
name. But it was some time before Friday 
opened his eyes and spoke. As soon as he 
was able, he began to relate the terrible adven- 
ture that had happened to him ; how the ship 
appeared to him a great mountain of wood, 
oil which stood up three large trees (meaning 
the masts) ; how the black creature had shown 
him a thousand marks of fondness : and how 
the monster with the beard and horn ; had at- 
tempted to kill him: lastly, he added, that he 
believed the monster to be master, of the float- 
ing mountain of wood, as he saw no man 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



ISO N£W ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Robinson fattened to his account of what 
pefel him with good deal of surprise. The horn- 
ed monster he supposed to be a goat. As to 
the ship, he concluded that it was fast upon 
a rock or sand bank, and that the crew, fear- 
ing to be wrecked there, had quitted it, and 
taken to their boats for safety, but he could 
not coneeiye what was become of them. How- 
ever, at length, he recollected that the wind 
had changed during the storm, and, from an 
easterly gale, had shifted suddenly to the 
west; so that the people who took to their 
boats, must hare been driven by the westerly 
gale from reaching the shore, and perhaps had 
landed on one of the islands to the eastwards 

" But what are we to t\o T said Robinson. 
" Whether the crew have perished, or are 
only tossed about \>y the winds, in either case 
we can do nothing better than unload the ship 
of whatever effects we can more. But hew 
are we to attempt this now that we have no 
canoe ?" To build another canoe, . wouM 
take up too much time. Te swim to the ship, 
was an attempt that he durst not undertake on 
account of the distance. Besides, what could 
\m expect to save by doing so? He therefore, 
resolved to make a raft, and that one of them 
should go to the cave, and bring back provi- . 
e*ons for a day, as well as all the cordage and 
tools that he should find. As Friday was t^e 
mote active of the two, he was charged with 
$• business ; and while he performed ft, Ro- 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



NBW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 

binson cut down tr^es proper for the raft. At 
Friday's return, Robinson gave the spaniel 
part of his supper, though this was the first 
food that he had tasted himself the whole day I 
It happened to be a moon-light nigh} ; which, 
enabled them to work without ceasing till 
near midnight, when they found themselves 
so overpowered with sleep, that they could na 
linger resist its approaches. They fey down 
therefore upon the grass, and the spaniel a$ 
their feet, as their guard. Thus, till the re* 
turn of the dawn* they refreshed their bodies, 
and gathered new strength in sound and un- 
d^turbed repose. 

Scarcely had the morning appeared* when 
the wakeful Robinson roused his companion, 
to go on, with ^he work which they had begun 
the day before. They worked so incessantly 
the whole day, that the raft was finished tba^ 
very evening. 

They did not <lelay, therefore, in launching 
it* thai they might have the advantage of the* 
ebb* which, ^e a current, would carry then* 
out towards the ship. T^y push off, ate now 
upon the open sea; and In less than half an 
how, con>e alongside of the sluj>. What were 
llohinson' a feelings, when h$ approached this, 
European vessel I He woidd have kissed it, and 
dyed hja hps to every part of it> if possible ! 
That it came from Europe, was, built, manned, 
and conveyed thither by Europeans, were 
ci^wns>tan^es ^hich couW no* ^il to reader 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



132 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

it dear to him. But, alas ! these Europeans 
themselves had disappeared — perhaps had been 
swallowed up by the wares ; an afflicting sur- 
mise to Robinson. 

When Robinson was a little recovered from 
the excess of joy which he felt at the sight of 
an European ship, his first wish was that it 
might not prove to be damaged, but capable 
of being set afloat. In this case, he was resolved 
to embark in it with Friday, and set sail, if 
not for Europe, at least for some European 
colony in South America, or the West Indies, 
notwithstanding the danger of being on the 
open sea in a ship without sufficient bands to 
work it, and without having the knowledge 
of navigation which a sea-voyage requires. 
He sailed round the ship on his raft, and exa- 
mined the depth of water about it, but had the 
mortification to be convinced that he must 
never expect to see it float again. 

The storm had lodged it between two rocks, 
where it was jammed in so fast, that it was 
likely to remain in its present situation until 
the force of the waves should disengage it by 
dashing it in * pieces. Disappointed in all his 
hopes for the preservation of the ship, Robin- 
son hastened on board to examine the cargo, 
and see whether that was damaged. Friday 
still remembered his fright so strongly, that 
he could scarcely persuade himself to accom- 
pany bis master upon 'deck. He ventured, 
however, at last, though' not without tremb- 

Digitized by LiOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 

lmg, as the first object that met his eyes was 
the terrible horned monster. But he was no 
longer so fierce as before: he was lain down, 
and seefned exceedingly weak, and hardly able * 
to rise. The fact was, that, for three days past, 
nobody being at hand to give hirh his usual' 
food, he had received little or no nourishment. 
Robinson, who suspected this to be the case, 
made it his first care to seek for something to 
appease the animal's hunger. 

Robinson began next to take a survey of 
the ship: he went from deck to deck, and 
found every where a great many things Which, , 
in Europe, one would acafcely think worth 
looking at, but which to him were of infinite 
importance. In one part was a stock of biscuit, 
rice, flour, corh, wine* gunpowder, balls, and 
shot; ill another place were ship cannon, mus- 
kets, pistols, swords, bangers, and cutlasses; 
elsewhere there were hatchets, saws, pincers, 
gimblets, rasps, planes, hammers, iron bars, 
nails, knives, scissars, needles, and pins. — 
Farther on, be sees pots, porringers, plates, 
spoons, tongs, bellows, fire-shovels, and other 
kitchen utensils, some of wood, others of iron, 
tin, and copper. Lastly, he finds chests full 
of clothes, linen, stockings, shoes, boots, and 
a number of other things, for any single one of 
which, if it had been offered to him for sale, 
Robinson would freely have given his lump of 
gold which he had long since forgotten. * * 



134 NEW ROBISJSON CAUSOE. - 

He considered what he had best cany ashore 
in this his first trip, and found some difficulty 
in making his choice. At length, however, 
he fixed upon the following ' objects, at being 
to him the most valuable of any that he could 
carry away: two barrels, one of gunpowder, 
the other of shot ; two muskets, two brace of 
pistols, two hangers, and two cutlasses; two 
suits of clothes, complete, for himself and 
Friday ; two dozen of shirts, two hatchets, .. 
two saws, two planes, two iron bars, some 
hammers, and several other iron tools ; some 
books, paper, pens, and ink; a tinder box, 
with matches, flint, and steel; a hogshead of 
biscuit, some pieces W sail-cloth; and last, 
the goat. But he disdained to take many 
articles which in Europe would have been 
eagerly seized the first of all. A barrel of 
gold dust, and a casket of the most valuable 
diamonds he found amongst the captains 
effects, but was in no wise tempted to take 
away, as they could not possibly be of any 
service to him. 

He had employed so much time in examin- . 
ing the ship, in opening and emptying the 
chests, in indulging his joy and admiration, 
in chusing and placing upon the raft what he* 
had a mind to carry away, that when all was 
done, he had only an hour to spare before the 
tide would begin to flow again. Robinson 
spent this hour in dining after the European 
fashion, which he had not done for a long 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



KEW HOBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

time before. He brought out, therefore, a 
piece of hung beef, a few herrings, some bis- 
cuit, butter, cheese, and a bottle of wine, and 
laid th# whole upon a table in the cabin. Friday 
and he sat down upon chairs. The very cir- 
cumstance of dining at a table, sitting on chairs, 
having plates, helping themselves with knives 
and forks; in short, of making a meal with 
the advantage of so many European conve- 
niences, gave Robinson a pleasure that, it 
would be impossible to express. One should, 
like him, be deprived for nine years succes- 
sively of all those sorts of food, and all those 
conveniences, in order to conceive, in its full 
extent, the luxury that he enjoyed* 

Friday, who knew nothing of the European 
manner of eating, was very much puzzled iu 
handling his knife, and still more his fork. 
Robinson shewed him how to use them ; but 
Friday, endeavouring to imitate him, and to 
put a bit of meat into his mouth with the fork, 
from pure habit lifted up his hand with the 
handle of the fork to his lips,* while the piece 
of meat went off towards his ear. Robinson 
having made Friday taste the wine, he firmly 
refused to drink any of it; accustomed as he 
was to spring water, his palate could not bear 
the fiery strength of a fermented liquor. The 
biscuit, on the other hand, was quite to hit 
taste. 

The tide now beginning to flow, they get 
upon the k raft, push off, ami are carried gently 

M 2 Digitized by ( 



136 NEW ROBINSON CBUSOE. 

towards the island. In a short time they come 
to shore* and hasten to land the goods, . with 
which the raft was loaded. 

Friday was very curious to know tht mean- 
ing of all those things,, and their uses. To 
satisfy bis curiosity, Robinson goes out of 
sight behind a bushy, and dresses himself in a 
suit of the clothes which he bad brought from 
the ship ; then, putting a hat upon his head, 
he comes* all a£ once, and shows himself to 
Friday. Seized with asAomsfcoent, Friday 
starts baxk a few paces, doubtipg, at first, 
whether it was really hi* master, or some beiug 
above the human species. Robinson beW his 
hand out to him in a friendly manner, assuring 
him that he was stilt the same, st^l his friend 
Robinson, though he had undergone a change 
of dress, and, in some measure, of fortune. 
He gave him a suit of sailor's clothes, showed 
him the use of each part, and desired him also 
to retire behind the thicket and change his 
dress. Friday went accordingly: but how 
long was he dressing! and how many trials 
did he make ! He put on each part of the dress 
wrong ; he put his two legs through the sleeves 
of the shirt, ran hi* two arms, into the breeches, 
covered his, head with the seat ot them, and 
tried to button the jacket behind. However 
he was able to correct all his mistakes, and, at 
length, dressed himself properly at all points. 

They begam to* make, immediate use of their 
hatchets, in. cutting a mast wr their raft, that. 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 137 

With, the help of a sail, they might be able to 
go to and from the ship without being obliged 
to wait for the ebb and flow of the tide. Robint- 
BOii undertook this task alone, and sent Friday 
to his dwelling-place to milk the lamas, which 
they had neglected for two days past. 

During his absence, Robinson proposes to 
have, the pleasure of surprising his friend with 
the astonishing effects of gunpowder. As Fri- 
day, at his return, was admiring the dispatch 
with which Robinson had finished his work, 
the latter perceived a seat-gull flying away with 
a fish that he had seized out of the water. He 
snatches up his musket and says to Friday, 
" Do you see that sea-gull ? He shall fall this 
moment." And, so saying, he levels at the 
bird, draws the trigger, and fires. The sea* 
gull falls. 

Imagine Friday's terror and surprise. He 
fell down* as if it were himself that had been 
shot, but Robinson raised him u* a friendly 
manner. He explained to him the nature and 
effects of gunpowder, and leading the ga* in 
his presence, gave h to him, that he might fire 
it off. But Friday was still in too great a 
fright? and begged Robinson to try the expe- 
riment in his stead, He, therefore, set. up a 
mark about a hundred yards eff, and fired, 
while Friday stood iby kk side. 

He was near faffing a second time, so terrible* 
did what he saw and heard appear to him. — 
There were several grains of shot, in the mask* 

rr Q N by VnO 



138 NEW ROB tN SON CRUSOE." 

which had entered pretty deeply into the wood. 
Robinson, having remarked this to him, made 
him perceive how secure they must be for the 
future against all attacks of the savages, while 
they had this artificial thunder and lightning 
in their power. 

What he was now witness to, and what he 
had seen in the ship, inspired him with so 
profound a veneration for Europeans in gene- 
ral, and Robinson in particular, that, for some 
clays, he could not recover that air of fami- 
liarity which he had usually kept up with his 
friend, ■ ' 

The next morning,, they rose pretty early; 
and carried all their goods into a coppice, 
where they covered them with boughs of trees 
to secure them from the rain, if it should fall,' 
and set off with the first ebb to return to the 
wreck. They had provided themselves with 
oars, so that this trip was made in much lestf 
time than the former, and to the full as for- 
tunately. They took care, x in the first place, 
to Hgfpr down upon their raft all the planks 
that they could find in the ship, with which 
they might cover the raft, as it were, with 
another floor, and so keep the goods much 
drier than those which they had carried away 
the day before. Their next object was to 
place upon the raft the following articles: 
three small bags, one of rye, another of barley, 
and the last of pease ; a chest of nails and 1 
screws, a dozen t>F hatchets, a barrel of yun* 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE.' ISS 

powder, with balk and shot; a sail, a grind- 
stone, and a piece of cannon. 

Before be' set off to return, Robinson found 
tbat the leak was gaining ground, and that 
the rubbing of her sides against the rock bad 
already loosened - and started several planks. 
He foresaw, therefore, that the first gust of 
wind would dash the ship to pieces, and con- 
cluded that he must be expeditious if he wished 
to save much more of the cargo. As the wind 
blew then towards shore, they were able 
to reach it solely by the assistance of their 
sail and oars, though the ebb, which had scarce- 
ly run half down, was against them. In their 
way to the shore, he blamed himself much for 
not carrying away the gold dust and diamonds. 
If a gale of wind were to rise and dash the 
ship to pieces before he could go back to it, 
how could he justify himself to the owner and 
to his own conscience, for having thought 
merely of saving what might be of use to him- 
self, without paying the least attention to his 
interest, by saving the goods that would be 
most valuable to him ? " Robinson ! Robin- 
son !" cried be, highly dissatisfied with himself, 
" how far art thou still from being just as thou 
oughtest to be." 

Robinson was no sooner, therefore, aboard 
the ship $nce more than he hastened to con- 
vey upon the raft the barrel of gold dust and 
the casket of jewels ; he also carried away 
some wheel-barrows which happened to be 



110 NSW ROBINSON CRUSOE* 

aboard; a great quantity of clothes and linen; 
a number of took and piece* of fwraiture ; a 
lantern, and all the papers that were in the 
captain's cabin : and lastly, five pieces of cannon 
which, with the sixth, he reaojved to plant in 
front of hia habitation. The rest of the day. 
be spent is taking a precaution which he 
thought indispensably necessatyi He trem- 
bled at the idea, that, were a heavy shower to 
dome on, he should be disabled from using 
what he counted the most valuable of alibis 
effects, namely, his gun-powder. To prevent 
suck an accident* he resolved that very day, 
to make a tent of large saiUcloth, which he 
had saved, and to lodge his treasure under it, 
where it would be safely sheltered from, the 
rain. 

They finished the tent before sunset, and 
Robinson had still time to show Friday the 
effect of a great gun. He charged it with a 
ban* and pointed the musnsle towards the sea 
that the ball might skim the surface of the 
water, and Friday might see distinctly how far 
the gun would cany. Robinson put fire to the 
touch-hole, and though Friday was already in 
some measure prepared for. it by two shots 
from the musket, yet the explosion being now* 
much louder, terrified htm so much, that he 
trembled from head to foot. The. ball marked' 
its course on the surface of the water, by 
lightly dipping « and rebounding until it was; 
out of sight. Friday affirmed, that a single* 

Digitized by VnO 



NEW; ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 

shot like this would be sufficient to turn his 
whole nation of countrymen to sudden flight, 
if they were even approaching by thousands; 
because they would not have a doubt, that he 
who could produce such thunder must certainly 
be more than human. After night-fall, Robin- 
son put a light into his lantern to cast an eye 
over the papers that he had saved, in order to 
discover the ship's destination, and to whom 
she belonged; but unfortunately, all these 
papers, as well as books, were written im 
a language that he did not understand. He 
took however as much care of the papers which 
he had been looking over, as of the diamonds 
and gold-dust, that if ever he returned to 
Europe, he might by means of them, discover 
the persons to whom he should restore the 
treasure that he had saved out of the ship. — 
For six days successively they made two or 
three trips a day to the wreck, and brought to 
land every thing they could possibly convey 
away. A great many little matters which we 
would scarcely think it worth while to pick up, 
because we have never felt how disagreeable 
the loss of them is, were of value to them, and 
therefore, they did not neglect to take them 
away. After they had made eighteen trips, 
all with good success, they observed, as they 
were on board the nineteenth time, that a storm 
was rising very fast. They made haste there- 
fore to load the raft, and push off, hoping to 
gain the shore by rowing, before the storm 

Digitized by VjOCK? IC 



14$ NEW IIOBIN'SON CRUSOK. 

should gather strength. But in vain; they 
were scarcely half way towards the shore when 
a violent gale of wind, accompanied with 
thunder, lightning, and rain, agitated the sea 
in such a manner, that the waves rolling over 
the raft, carried off all the goods that were 
upon it. As to themselves, they held pretty 
close for some time to the mast, so that the 
waves could not wash them away, though, at 
times, they went clean over their heads. At 
length, the slightness of the raft began to give 
way to the fury of the waves. The cordage 
and other bindings, which held the pieces of 
it together, being loosened, all the beams, of 
which it consisted, quickly came asunder. 

Friday sought to save himself by swimming, 
and Robinson seized a piece of wood, with 
which he was sometimes plunged into the deep 
and sometimes rode upon the ridge of the waves. 
But at length he lost his breath, his strength 
forsook him, and he was almost insensible ; 
he utters a weak cry, and sinks down, op- 
pressed by a huge wave, which carries away 
the beam that supported him. Happily his 
faithful Friday was not far from him, though 
he might have saved himself, and gained the 
shore sooner if he had chosen to do so. When 
he saw him sink, he,' without hesitating a mo- 
ment, dived down, seized him by the left hand, 
and by means of his right, rose with him again 
to the surface of the water. He then exerted 
himself with so much success, that, in a few 
• 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. , 143 

minutes, he reached the shore witli his masters 
body, which showed no feigns of life. 

Friday, who was distressed at his master's 
present condition, carried him a little farther 
up on the beach, hung over him, called him 
with a loud voice, shook him, rubbed him, and 
joined his lips to his mouth to communicate 
breath to him, if possible. At length he had 
the inexpressible satisfaction to perceive signs 
of life in him ; he, therefore, continued his 
exertions, and Robinson quickly recovered the 
use of his faculties. 

Opening his eyes, he asked, in a weak and 
trembling voice, " where am I ?" " In my arms, 
my dear master !" answered Friday, with tears 
in his eyes. An affecting scene now took 
place between them. Robinson thanked Fri- 
day, over and over, and called him his deli- % 
verer: Friday, for his part, through joy at 
seeing him restored to himself, was almost 
ready to run wild. 

A good night's sleep in his tent, upon a bed 
that he had saved from the wreck, recovered 
him so well, that he was up at day-break ; hq 1f 
felt himself possessed of his usual strength, 
and returned thanks to God for having pre- 
served both his life and health. The storm 
had continued the whole night, and Robinson 
saw, to his grief, that the ship had disappeared. 
Planks and timbers, scattered here and there 
upon the beach, were sufficient tokens, that 
the storm had dashed it to pieces. 

Digitized by ViOOQ 1C 



144 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

He was particularly careful to gather all the 
remains of the wreck together in one spot of 
the beach, as he foresaw that every plank and 
every splinter might be of use another time, 
and then to convey all these goods to their 
dwelling-place; so many articles, could not 
all be stowed in Robinson's cellar; he there- 
fore resolved to build a storehouse or shed to 
shelter them from the weather, and now that 
he was provided with all sorts of tools, soon 
finished it. When all was put under cover 
and in proper order, Robinson thought of con- 
triving for himself a convenient way of enter- 
ing his fortress without weakening it. The 
most secure method for the purpose, was by 
means of a common gate and draw-bridge— 
Being provided with every necessary for this 
undertaking, such as nails, chains, hinges, 
locks, and iron works of all sorts, he immedi- 
ately began upon it. They first made the gate 
and the draw-bridge ; and, afterwards, they 
made an opening in the terrace and palisade 
sufficient for the width of the gate, which they 
next reared up in its place; then they laid 
down the bridge in such a manner, that when 
raised, it might lie against the gate, and cover 
it. Lastly, they loaded the guns, and placed 
them upon the terrace, in such positions, that 
two of them should defend the right side, two 
the left, and two the front of their fortification 
so that henceforward, they might be quite at 
their ease as to the attacks pf the savages, and 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



NEW R^B^NSON CRUSOE.' 145 

h$Ve, ' besides, the advantage of an easy and 
convenient waVfor going in and out. l 

When harvest tiine was come, Robinson r 
made use ' of : an ' ofd hanger, instead of a sicjde 
to cot down his maize, and his wooden spade , 
se^v&T him fdr 1 digging bis potatoes. When, 
the "harvest was gathered, he made two flails, . 
with which Friday and he, in one day, threshed 
all their' maiie. He had brought a hand mill . 
from the ship/ and wanted nothing but a sieve 
to holt the flour, and an oven for baking the 
bread. He* fdund expedients for both. Some 
fine muslin, of which there was a whole piece 
am'oWgst "the goods saved from the ship, served , 
hint to mike the bottom of his sieve; and the 
building 1 of the oven cave him very little trou- 
ble; so that the whole was finished before the 
rainy season came on. 

But, 'one article was wanting, of the great- 
est utility in farming, and that was an iron 
spade'; to make his farming implements com- 
plete: Robinson therefore conceived the design 
of fixing up a forge to make spades himself, . 
arid possibly, other instruments besides. This 
design ' was not so extravagant as perhaps it 
may be thought ; for every thing necessary 
for a forge was to be found in his storehouse. 
There was a small anvil, several pair of pincers, 
a pretty large pair of bellows, and such a stock 
of iron, both wrought and in bars, as would 
probably be sufficient to keep him in work 
all his life-time. This plan was, therefore, 

\. ., _ . ' . ^ Digitized by V^nOOQlC 

immediately put in execution. 



146 NEW BOBIKSON CRUSOE. 

By means of a large boarded roof, which 
they put over the kitchen, it was so extended, 
that they were able to fix up a forge in it, and 
to work at it, even during the rainy, season* 
Part of this season, therefore, they spent in 
working smith s work ; and if they succeeded 
upon the whole, it was not without some dis- 
appointments and unsuccessful trials. When 
the spades were finished, Robinson had a mind 
to go a little farther, and to try his abilities at 
making a plough ; and, having succeeded, be # 
resolved to perfect his collection of farming 
tools by making a harrow. 

He then made a trial whether his lamas would 
draw his plough- They became gradually 
accustomed to the worlf, which, at ^ength, 
they performed, in eveiy respect, as perfectly 
as if Robinson and Friday had been brought 
up ploughmen, and the lamas had been trained 
like our beasts of draught. 

When the weather was settled fair, they 
unroofed' the Ftore-liouse, in order to add 
another story to it, which might serve as a 
granary. The Building of this required more 
skill and labour than that of the ground floor ; 
but their indefatigable perseverance triumphed 
over all difficulties, and the work was soon . 
happily completed. 

During these transactions, the goat yeaned 
two young ones ; so that the species might now 
he multiplied and kept 4 up on the island-— 
The spaniel ^served as a guard by night, and 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

Poll, the parrot, amused them at table, and , 
pretty often also when they /were at work. 
On the other hand, the lamas Were become 
more valuable to them than ever: as> besides, 
affording milk, butter, and cheese, they as- 
sisted in tilling the ground. In order, there- 
fore, to be perfectly happy* Robinson wanted 
nothing now but to have mV father and mother 
near him, and to have some more companions. . 
Being only two upon the . island, they must 
expect, sooner or later, that one should 
die before the other, wh'o would then remain 
a poor hermit, separated from afl the rest of 
mankind. Yet Robinson looked upon, it as a 
blameable weakness to make one's life miser- 
able by the dread of evils that are possible, but 
^still concealed in futurity. 

One morning that Robinson was engaged 
in the ordinary cares of his habitation, he 
sent Friday to' the sea-side for some turtle, 
which was now become a rarity to them— 
After a short absence, he came back running 
. at full speed. Out of breath with running, and 
with fright together, he could but just stam- 
mer out these words, " Here they- are ! here 
they are !" 

Robinson in a fright, asked him hastily 
whom he meant. " Oh ! master ! master ! ' 
answered Friday, " one, two, three — six ca- 
noes !" In his flurry he could scarcely bring 
out the number six. 

i 2 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



14$ t NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Robinson ran .hastily up. to the top of the: 
hillock, and saw* not without shuddering, that - 
Friday had counted right. . He perceived six , 
canoes full of . savages just ready to laatL— 
Coming down immediately, he bid Friday he 
of good courage, who stood trembling all the i 
while ; and he asked him, whether, if they 
should come to an engagement with the enemy, 
would he stand by him faithfully to. the best 
of his power. 

" Yes,'* answered he, " to the last drop of 
my t blood," for having had time to recover . 
hipiself he felt his courage mount by degrees < 
to its usual pitch. " Well," said Robinson^ 
" let us endeavour to prevent these monsters 
from executing their horrible designs. I will : 
explain my intention to you as we go along; . 
this is not the time to talk — we must acV' 

With these words, he wheeled down one of 
the carnage gun$, took six muskets, two brace 1 
of pistols, , and two hangers. ; Each . of them 
put a brace of pistols in his girdle, a hanger 
by his side, and three muskets on his shoulder 
and when they had taken a sufficient quantity 
of powder and ball, they harnessed themselves . 
to the gun, and with a firm countenance, took ..- 
the fieldl 

On their way, Robinson explained to Friday r 
the plan that lie had formed. " We will walk .: 
through the thickest part, of the wood, that we . 
may not be perceived by the enemy ; and then 
crossing among the thickets, which extend 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 




ftOMNSON AND M1DAT MIOCIIB TO ATTACK THE SATAGtfs. 

I 3 Digitized by G 



150 NEW ROBINSON CHUSOE. 

almost to the sea side, we shall approach the 
savages without being perceived by them. — 
When within reach of them, we will fire the 
great gun, and the ball passing over their 
heads, no doubt will terrify the barbarians, 
make them abandon their prey, and take to 
flight in their canoes. 

" Thus/' continued Robinson, ** we shall 
have the satisfaction of saving those whom 
they intend to devour, without shedding a 
drop of blood. But 'tf they should be encou- 
raged by their numbers, and not take to flight, 
then, Friday, we must bravely face the danger. 
He from whom nothing is hid, sees what in- 
duces us to endanger our lives ; he will pre- 
serve them, if it be our, advantage; therefore, 
his will be done." So saying, he gave his 
hand to his companion, and they mutually pro- 
mised to assist each other to the last drop of 
their blood. 

Having arrived, without noise, almost at the 
last of the thickets, they there made a hah. 
Robinson desired Friday to steal with circum- 
spection behind a large tree, in order to see whe- 
ther he could discover the enemy from that spot. 
He brought word back, that they were sittSig 
round a large fire, and picking the bones of 
one prisoner, whom they had already dispatch- 
ed ; jhat, not far from them, J*e saw another 
lying on the ground, and tied hand and foot, 
who seemed to be a white man, and had the 

Digitized by VjOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

appearance of a beard ; and, that in all probabi- 
lity, be was going soou to share the same fate* 

Robinson was startled at this report, espe- 
cially when be beard mention, of a white man. 
Having a spy-glass about him, which he had 
found aboard the ship, he went to the tree 
himself, and, from thence, by the help of tins 
instrument, could discover that Friday's ac- 
count was perfectly true. He saw about fifty 
savages sitting round a fire, and could clearly 
distinguish the prisoner to be an European. 
He could scarcely contain himself; his heart 
throbbed; his blood boiled.. But, as the blind 
impulse of passion should never get the better 
of reason, he restrained his transports in , order 
to effect the deliverance of their captive with 
more certainty. 

As there was a spot farther on, equally shel- 
tered with thickets, he went behind a bush 
pretty near the savages, there he points his 
cannon in such a manner that the ball would 
pass over the heads of the savages. Then he 
told Friday, in a low voice, to imitate exactly ' 
what he should see him do* 

He lays down two of bis muskets on the 
ground, and 'holds the third in his hand; 
Friday does the same ; he then applies a lighted 
match to the touch-hole of the cannon, and 
fires it off. 

At the noise of the report, the savages feU 
backwards on the grass, as if they had been ail 
shot at once. Robinson and Friday, on their 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



152 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

side, uncertain what might be the event, pre* 
pared for engaging, if that should happen to 
be necessary. In less than a minute, the 
savages recover from their . astonishment ; 
the most fearful run to their canoe?, but the* 
boldest take up their arms. Unfortunately, 
they did not perceive the fire, nor hear the 
whistling of the ball. T? he fright was there- 
fore, not near so great as had been expected. 
After looking round on every side, without 
discovering any thing that could terrify them 
again, they gathered courage, and those who 
were running away presentiy returned* They 
all set up a dreadful yell, and began their d^nce 
shaking their weapons with furious looks and 
gestures. Robinson was undetermined what 
to do; but, observing with surprise , that, when 
the dance was ended, the whole company of 
the savages not only took their places again, 
but sent two of their number to seize the un- 
fortunate' European, he could not contain 
himself any longer. He looks at Friday, and 
says to him, in a low voice, " You take the 
right, I the left, and may success attend us.; 
he presents and fires j'friday does the same. 

The man took much better aim ' than ^e 
master ; for on the enemy's left there fell ,tW6, 
and on the right' only one, of these two were- 
killed, the other wounded. The consternation 
with which those who were not hurt .took to 
night, cannot be described. Some ran on« 
way, some another, all of them yelling in thy 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW &0&1NSON CRUSOE. 153 

most hideous manner. Robinson was going 
to sally out from behind the bushes, sword in 
band, in order to take advantage of their rout, 
and deliver the unfortunate European, who 
lay bound hand and foot;' but he saw, with 
astonishment, a party of the runaways rally 
all of a sudden and stand upon their defence. 
He made haste to take up a second musket, and 
Friday doing the same, they both fired at once. 
At this discharge there fell only two of the 
enemy, but several of them being wounded, . 
some more, some less dangerously, began to 
run away, howling dreadfully; presently, 
three of them fell down, but still with some 
remains of life. Robinson, when he laid 
down the gun that he bad just fired, to take 
up the third, which was still loaded, said to 
Friday in a loud voice, " now let us show our- 
selves ;" at the same instant, they both start 
from their concealment, and appear before the 
savages. Robinson flies to the unfortunate 
prisoner, to show him that relief was at hand ; 
but as he approaches him, perceives that some 
of the savages, who before were running away 
now that they discovered their enemy, stopped 
short, and rallied to prepare for combat. He 
noticed this to Friday, who perfectly under- 
stood his master's meaning, advanced a little 
way, fired, and saw one of the Indians fall. 

In the mean time, Robinson, with his knife 
cut the bulrushes with which the prisoners 
hands and feet were tied, and asking him in 

J. A Digitized by VnO 



154 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

English and Latin, of which he recollected a 
few words, who ho- was, the man answered 
in Latin, that he was a Christian and a 
Spaniard. His excessive weakness hindered 
him from saying any more. Fortunately,' 
Robinson had put a small bottle of wine, 
in his pocket, and of this he gave the Spa- 
niard a little, which revived him exceeding* 
ly, so that he soon began to recover his 
strength. Kobinson then furnished him with 
a hanger and a pistol, that he might help them 
tp complete the defeat of the savages, and, 
mean time, Friday was ordered to bring all 
t^e muskets, that they night be loaded afresh.. 

■ The moment the Spaniard was armed with 
a. bftogpr &*hI a pistol, he fell furiously upon 
his enemies, and dispatched two of them in the 
twinkling of an eye. Friday, with the sixth 
musket, which had not been fired yet, advanced 
to support him, while Robinson was hastening 
to load the other five. The two champions 
found some resistance at first, and were soon 
separated ; for the Spaniard came to close 
engagement with a very stout Indian, and 
Friday, on the other hand, after firing his last 
musket, pursued, sword in hand, a whole p9Ny 
of runaways, some of whom fell beneath his 
arm, others jumped into the sea to swim to 
their canoes, and the rest fled, and hid them- 
selves amongst the bushes. 

But the Spaniard was now hard put to it. 
He had, it is •true, at first, noiy/ithstanding his 
weakness, attacked the Indian with great im- 



)JEW 110B1NS0N CRUSOE. 153 

Cuosity, and giving him two wounds in the 
id with his hanger ; %tit this so enraged the 
*avage, that,, with his heavy stone hatchet, he 
was near cutting the Spaniard down, who 
found it as much as he could do to parry off 
his blows: nor, indeed, could he at length 
prevent the furious Indian from seizing hint 
toy' the middle, throwing him to the ground, 
and twisting the hanger out of his hand; but 
in the very moment that he was going to cut off 
his head, Robinson perceived the - Spaniards 
danger, fired at the savage, -and killed him oa 
the spot. 

Scarcely was the Spaniard raised from the 
ground before he seized a loaded musket, and 
went with Friday in pursuit of the savages 
who had fled into the coppice. As they were 
few in number, and, for the most part, wounded, 
Robinson thought it best to remain on the field 
ef battle, and observe the motions of those 
who had escaped to their canoes. His two 
friends were not long before they joined him 
again, with the assurance, that there were no 
more of the enemy in the wood. 

The stranger and Friday were both about 
to *nter one of the canoes which the savages 
had left, and to pursue those who were rowing 
off to sea; but Robinson stoppetl them. " My 
friends," said he, " it is enough; let us suffer 
those to live who have no longer the intention 
or the power to hurt us." 

Robinson, having a mind to Examine one 
of the two eanoes which tht savage had \* e * 



156 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

behind them, went towards it, and, to his great 
astonishment, found in it another, unfortunate 
creature, tied hand ! and foot as tho Spanjarfl 
had been ; he made haste to cut his cords, . and 
would have lifted him up, but he was not able 
either to stand or speak. He lay groaning, 
no doubt, under the apprehension that they 
were going to put him to death. As W was 
an Indian, not an European, Robinson called 
Friday, who was then busy in burying the dead 
bodies, to speak to him in his native tongue. 
Scarcely had he cast eyes on the. prisoner, 
when Robinson and the Spaniard saw him, alj 
of a sudden, fly to him, embrace him, lock 
him in his arms, cry, laugh, jump, dance, roar, 
clasp his hands, strike himself on the face and 
breast, cry out again, and, in short, act like 
one that was out of his senses. It was some 
time before Robinson, who questioned him 
repeatedly, could draw from him this abort* 
answer, " It is my father !" 
' It would be difficult to describe all tlja 
marks of filial love and affection which this, 
excellent young man showed upon this occa,-. 
sion. Twenty times he jumped out of the 
canoe upon land, and from the land into<4he 
canoe again. Sometimes, sitting down, he: 
opened his jacket, and pressed his fathers head, 
to his bosom, to warm it; at. otters, he rub^d t 
the joints of his arms and legs, which were ; 
numbed by having been so tightly bound ; apd> 
now he embjpeed him again, and epvere^. B(fit 



NEW KQBJNJjON CftUSOJE. 157 

with kisses. Robjnson, who had still some wine 
in. his hott}e, gave it to hiin, to wash his fathers 
lipibsj \vlrich were grievously swelled. He 
now a§ked \x\m if he had made his father take 
any nourishment. " The glutton," answered 
he, pointing to himself, " had before eatea up 
all." Robinson gave, him h\a ^re^kraat, which 
he had not touched, and f riday gave it to his 
father. Scarcely had he received it, when his 
son staged out} of the canoe, and went off so 
quick, that Robinson had npt Vme to say, 
u Where are you going." pe soon appeared 
again, but di<J not come back with such expe- 
dition. They could see thai he had a pitcher 
of water in one hand, and some victuals in 
the other. Ijle gave the water to his father, 
and the victuals to his master, in return for 
the breakfast which he had receive^ from him. 
The cold water afforded visible refreshment 
to the old map, who was ready to faint with, 
thirst. 

Robinson then turned towards the Spaniard, 
who, exhausted with fatigue., was lying stretch- 
ed upon the grass. Friday was ordered to sit 
down beside him, to bathe his arms and legs 
with wine, and to take tjie, same care of him 
as fye had of hjs father. 

It was tru|y moving to behold this affec- 
tionate son while he attended the Spaniard, 
frequently turning his head towards bis father, 
to see, how he was. At one time, wjieu the 
old man, in order to repose himjeelfj lay down 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



l£8 NEW KOB1NSON CRUSOE. 

et futt length, Friday, quite uneasy, flew to 
irim without speaking a word ; but when he 
saw that his father had only lain down to be 
tnore at his <ease, he returned immediately and 
continued his attention, to the Spaniard* Ro- 
binson now had a mind to try whether he could 
not, with Friday s assistance, convey the Spa- 
niard to the canoe ; but Friday, who was young 
and strong, took that task upon himself alone, 
and carried him with ease upon his ahouklers. 
When they had placed in the other canoe, not 
only the cannon and the muskets, but also all 
the arms of -the conquered Indians, Friday 
quickly entered the first, and made such speed, 
by dint of rowing, tha$* Robinson, who ran on 
Coot along the sea-side, could by no means 
equal the swiftness of the canoe. He was 
scarcely half way home when he saw Friday 
returning, who passed by him in his way to 
fetch the other canoe ; and before Robinson 
could get, up to the first, where the Spaniard 
and Friday 8 father were, Friday was there 
with the second : with such swiftness did he 
row. 

They were now opposite their dwelling- 
place. Robinson hastened thither for some 
planks and poles, which he put together in the 
ferm of a litter or bier, to convey the disabled 
men to his habitation with more ease. He 
and Friday carried them up, one after the 
other. What a treasure was here for Robin* 
{sen, who longed for nothing so much as the 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 

happiness of enlarging his company! His heart 
teat with joy when he reflected that, for the 
future,, he need not apprehend being forced 
to lead a life of solitude again. His satisfac- 
tion was complete. As the two invalids seemed 
to have occasion for nothing so much as rest, 
Robinson presently warmed some wine to 
bathe their bruised limbs, while Friday made 
them up a bed, on which, when ready, they 
delayed not to repose themselves. The two 
liosts then prepared a good supper. Friday 
was ordered to go to the park, and bring home 
a young lama; Robinson undertook all the 
rest. The Spaniard could speak the language 
of Friday's country tolerably well, having 
remained six months there, so that Robinson 
was able to put many questions to him through 
his servant, who acted as interpreter. In the 
course of the conversation that ensued,' it ap- 
peared that the Spaniard belonged to the ship 
which was lost, and that he had been enabled, 
by means of the. boat, to gain the island, where 
he and the rest of tlie crew had neon most 
kindly treated, 

• f* Some days ago," he said, " the island 
where wo landed was invaded by a nation of 
neighbouring Indians. Every one took up 
arms, . and we should have been wanting in 
/ gratitude, if we had not assisted people from 
•• whom we had received such friendly enter- 
tainment. I fought by the side of this brave 
old maa, who threw himself into the hottest 



100 KCW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

of the combat. I saw him surrounded, and 
would have rescued him, but had the misfor- 
tune to be made prisoner along with him.— 
In this captivity, we passed two days and 
aights, bound ba#d and foot, and this morning, 
at break of day, were dragged to the canoes 
in order to be conveyed to the place, where 
these barbarians were accustomed to devour 
their victims. Providence brought you to our 
assistance ; so that we have received more a* 
your hands than ever we shall be able to repay 
you." 

Robinson then, took die Spaniard to his 
store-house, and showed him the most valuable 
effects of* the wreck safely stowed in both 
places. Robinson, enquired also respecting 
•the owner of the diamonds and the: officer's 
dress. He was told that they were both part 
of the effects of an English officer, who having 
resided many years in the East Indies, was 
returning to England, but, falling sick on his 
way home, he desired to be set ashore on the 
coast of Africa, where he died, and his effects 
were put on board the Spanish ship, to be con- 
veyed to Barbadoes, whence they were after- 
wards to be sent to England* He showed him 
also the papers, that he had taken out of the 
ship; by means of which he learnt the name 
of the merchant to whom the gold dust be- 
longed, and also that of the person to whom 
the diamonds and clothes should be restored. 
From that moment Robinson looked. upon the 
• 



NKW HQBINSON CUUSOE. 161 

,gqld dust, the diamonds, and the papers, as a 
sacred deposit entrusted to his care. 

Night approaching, all parties found them- 
selves so exhausted by the fatigues and dangers 
of the day, that each was glad to seek refresh- 
ment in sleep. 

The peat morning, Robinson asked their 
opinion as to the best mode of getting the 
Spaniards over from the neighbouring island, 
in order that they might share the comforts 
he Jjad collected round ;bim. Each gave his 
opjnion in .his turn. The Spaniard offered to 
go for them, in one of the .canoes that they 
had taken from the' Indians; and Friday's 
father, whom Robinson now called Thursday, 
declared that he was ready to undertake the 
same expedition. Upon which it was agreed, 
that they should set sail together as soon as 
they all four had (finished ploughing and sow- 
ing a i}eld at least ten times larger than that 
which they cultivated before, because the in* 
r crease of tjie colony would necessarily occasion 
a gvea^er consumption of food. Each of them, 
therefore, turned ploughman, and, as they 
laboured with a good will, aU the work was 
both very well and very speedily performed. 
jj.t tfce eno! of a fortnight they were ready to 
prepare for the voyage. 

Before their departure, the Spaniard was of 
opinion, tfyat Robinson, as master of the island 
should draw up an agreement, expressing the 
conditions upon which they should be received, 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



l$2 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and that none should be admitted without 
previously accepting his terms. Robinson, 
delighted with this proof of his new subject's 
fidelity, immediately pursued his advice! The 
agreement which he drew up in consequence 
of it was worded as follows ; 

" Ail persons who are desirous of residing 
in Robinson Crusoe's island, and of enjoying 
there the conveniences of life which they are 
iuvited to share, must consent 

" In the first place, to conform in every 
llring to the will of the lawful master of the 
island* and to submit cheerfully to whatsoever 
laws and regulations the said master shall 
judge necessary for the good of the territbry. 

" Secondly, to be active, sober, and virtu- 
ous ; for no -idle; drunken, or vicious person 
will be tolerated in this island. 

" Thirdly, to abstain from aft quarrels, and 
in case of receiving an injury, by no means to 
become judges in their own cause, but to carry 
their complaints before the master of the 
island, or to the person to whom he shall 
delegate tlie office of judge. 

u Fourthly, to join without murmuring, in 
all the labours which the good of the com- 
munity shall require, and, in case of necessity, 
to assist the master of the island at the hazard 
of their lives. 

" FifitWy, should any. person presume to 
oppose any one of these just laws, all the 
other members of the community shall be 



NEW ROBTNSON CllUSo£ 163 

bound to unite against him, either to oblige 
Win to return to his duty, or to banish him 
far ever from the island. 

<4 Every one is advised to consider these 

articles maturely, and not to sign them (which 

would be equal to the obligation of an oath,) 

unless he firmly resolves to abide by the con- 

' ditions of them. 

Signed, Robinson Crusoe." 

It was settled, that the Spaniard should 
translate this agreement into his natire Ian* 
guage, and take pen and ink with him, thai 
his countrymen might sign it before they 
embarked. 

They next chose the best of the canoes, 
since for their return, they could use the boats 
belonging to the Spanish ship, which, as the 
Spaniard declared, were still in very good 
condition. 

When their provisions were laid in, the 
wind being favourable, the two deputies set 
sail, after taking a friendly leave of Robinson, 
and Friday. The latter was so affected at # 
the separation, that, even the day before, his 
sorrow had caused him to shed tears for hours 
together, and took from him all desire of 
nourishment. At the moment of his father's 
departure he became inconsolable. Every 
now and then he embraced him, and bedewed 
him with his tears. It was not without some 
difficulty that the old man could escape from 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



164 SEW- ROBINSON CEUSOE. 

him to enter 'the canoe, and, even after they 
had pushed off from the shore, Friday threw 
himself into the sea, and swam to the side of 
the boat, to shake nands with his father once 
more, and #ive his kst farewel, which was 
almost stifled with sobs. On: his return ashore 
he sat down upon. a rising ground, where he 
remained sighing and shedding .tears, « with his 
eyes fixed upon the canoe, which scudded 
before the wind until he had entirely lost sight 
of it. ' 

A week was now elapsed without any ap- 
pearance of the deputies. One day, when 
Robinson was busy at the dwelling-place, 
Friday came towards him in full speed, 'Wag- 
ing, jumping, and bawling like a madman, 
" They are coming — they are coming !" At 
these agreeable tidings, Robinson took hm 
spy-glass* ^nd hastened to the top of the hil- 
lock. With his naked eye, he could perceive 
at a distance, <a boat making sail stewards liis 
island ; but when he put the «py-glas6 >to hm 
eye, the joy that was in tea countenance 
disappeared, .and he said to Friday, shaking 
his head, " I doubt whether these are the 
people that we wished for." Friday at these 
w^ords turned pale. 

Robinson looked at the object a •second time 
and has doubt was «ow changed into uneasiness. 
At last, being convinced that they were not 
bis friends who were in the boat, he commu- 
nicated his alarms to Friday, who was alttady 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEJV ROSINSQtf: CRUSOE. 1*65 

much disquieted " My friend" said' he, " they 
are neither the Spaniards , nor your father; it 
is an English .boat with i English sailors in it/' 
Friday, began to tremble from head to fdot. 1 
" Follow me," said Robinson, taking the road 
to an eminence from whence they could dis^- 
cover the Northern coast. Scatcely had they 
readied it, and looked- out to sea^ when they* 
were struck .motionless, and, as it were, petri- 
fied with astonishment. They perceived, at 
the distance of about a couple of leagues, a 
large ship lying at anchor. ' 

Surprise, fear? and joy, seized Robinson's 
breast by turns ; joy at the sight of a ship which 1 
might perhaps carry him to his own country ; 
surprise and fear, because he could not per- 
ceiye what had brought an English ship upon 
these coasts. It could not- be a storm; the 
weather had been quite calm for some weeks. 
Nor could the ship's course have occasioned 
her to come that way- What reason could' 
the -captain have for sailing towards parts of' 
the world where the English have neither set-' 
tlements nor trade? He apprehended, that 
they might be pirates, and resolved to act 
with caution. 

Robinson and Friday posted themselves on 
a rising ground that was covered with trees 
and underwood, from whence, without being' 
perceived, they could see whatever passed.—- 
They saw the boat* with eleven men in it, 
come to land at a part of the shore that was 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



166 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

smooth anil sandy, and about a mile from the 
place where they ,were« The strangers landed ; 
eight of them were armed, and the other three 
tied neck and heels. These they unbound as 
60on as they were upon the beach. By the 
countenance and actions of one of them in par- 
ticular, they judged that he was soliciting the 
compassion of those who were armed. The 
other two, now and then, lifted upv their hands 
to Heaven, as if to implore succour and de- 
liverance. 

It was not without shuddering that Robin- 
son saw some of those who were armed, lift 
up their hangers several times over the head 
of him who was on his knees before them. At 
last, he observed that the others dispersed 
themselves in the woods, whilst the three sat 
down with sorrowful and desponding hearts, 
on the spot where the rest left them. 

This sight reminded Robinson of his own 
deplorable situation, the day he was cast ashore 
upon the island, and inspired him with the 
resolution of risking every thing for the pre- 
servation of these unfortunate people. Having 
thus determined, he sent Friday home with 
orders, to bring as many guns, pistols, hangers, 
and ammunition as he could carry, while lie 
liimself thought proper to stay upon the spot, 
and observe what passed, 

Friday having performed this errand, and 
all the fire ; arms being charged, they observed 
with satisfaction, that the sailors being scat- 
Digitized by VnO 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 

tered about, were laid down in the shade, 
here and there, to sleep, during the violent 
heat of the noon-day. Robinson baring 
waited a quarter of an hour, advanced con* 
fidently towards the three prisoners, who 
were still sitting in the same spot with their 
back to him. When Robinson, approaching 
them, called out suddenly, " Who are you ?" 

They started up, and were going to run 
away; but Robinson bade them fear nothing, 
for he was come to assist them. " You are 
then sent from Heaven," said one of them, 
surveying him with greatest astonishment. 
" All assistance comes from Heaven," replied 
Robinson : " but not to lose time, tell me in what 
consists your distress, and how I can relieve 
you." "lam captain of that, ship," said one 
of them ; then pointing to his companions, 
" this," continued he, " was my mate, and 
that gentleman a passenger. My sailors mu- 
tinied, and seized the ship: their intention at 
first was to kill me, and these my two com- 
panions, for finding fault with their behaviour; 
however they have at length yielded to our 
entreaties, and spared our lives ; but this boon 
is almost as bad as death itself. They expose 
us on this island, where, being in want of every 
thing, we are sure to perish miserably." 

" On two conditions," 6aid Robinson, "I 
will risk my blood and my life to relieve you 
from this extremity." " Generous man ! let 
us but know what they are/' said the captain. 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



IW new robJnsok cntsoE: 

"They are these: WWle you remain unoil' 
this island, you shall* conform • in evety' thing 1 
to- my wiil^ and, if I succeed in recovering^ 
the possession of yotfr ship, you shall give'irie' 
and my companion, a frtee ' passage? to Eng- 
land." " We, the %hlp; and all that 5 itf 'contains 
shall be wholly >at« your disposal," replied the' 
captain, " Very* weH,* saM Rbbfnsfoy "T 
p«t- a musket and* a * teword in eatfh * of ydur 
hands,' on condition "thatr you shaH not use them* 
until I think proper. Your enemies are now 1 
asleep arid dispersed one from the other: come* 
let us try and master them; without spilling' 
"any blood." 

They set forward. Friday carried with him 1 
the cords which had been taken off the three' 
prisoners; The*fire$ sailor that they came up- 
to, lay with • hfe tfaeg to the ground, and slept 
so soundly,* that; they seized him by the hands 
and feet, and crammed a handkerchief into his 
mouth before he 'was" well ' awake. They tied 
his hands behind his back, and commanded 1 
him to remain *on the sprit,' without .stirring 
an inch, or making the 1 least noise, on pain of 
being put' to death that mdmeftt. They made 
him 'turn his head 1 towards' the sea; that he 
might* not observe what was passing airiongst' 
his comrades; 

The second met with the same treatment; 
he was lied hantl and foot, and threatened in 
the same manner. Providence ajjpeare'd on 
this occasion the protector of innocence,' and' 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

ayenger of villainy. Six of them were now 
tied, but the two last awoke, started up, and 
took their aims* " Wretches !" cried Robinson 
to them, " see where your companions lie ; 
lay down your arms this very instant; the 
least delay may cost you your lives !" 

They % threw down their arms, and, in their 
turn, fell upon their knees to entreat their 
captain's pardon. Their hands being tied ia 
the same manner as those of the rest, they 
were all conducted to a cavern which had been 
lately discovered, there to be confined. They 
were then informed that the guard, who was 
to have the care of them, would shoot the first' 
man through the head who should attempt to 
come out at the door.. It was also thought 
expedient to take away their knives. 

.After this, Robinson and Friday with their 
new frieuds, went down to the boat: they 
drew it up on the beach, and bored holes in 
its bottom, to render it, for the present r unfit 
for use, foreseeing that, when the first boat 
did not return, the people on board would 
send a second. They chose, therefore, to put 
it 6ut of their power to take back the ;first. s 

What they expected happened accordingly. 
About three o'clock in the afternoon* the ship 
fired a gun for the saflors who were on shore 
to return. This signal not being obeyed, 
though thrice repeated, they saw another boat 
puj; off from the ship towards the island .~~ 
Robinson, with his companions, retired to a 

v Digitized by VnOOQ. IC 



170 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

- '• ; ' a / ' 

x ming ground, in order, from thence, to observe 
what measures circumstances might* require 1 
them to pursue. "" } 

Having come to land, the men, who were 
ten in number, jumped out; and ran to the ' 
first* but were not a little surprised to see it 
drawn up a good way on the beach, and with ' 
holes in its bottom. They looked all round, 
and called their companions by their 1 natters, 
but nobody answered. ~ 5 ' • l " "* 

Robinson, being informed by the captain, 
that, amongst the prisoners,' there' were three f 
who, from' fear alone, had joined' in themutmy, 4 
seat Friday and the mate for thern immediately.' 
On their- appearance, 4he captam, after 're- 
proaching them a little for their behaviour*, 
asked them whether, if he should pardon them, 
they would remain faithful to Mm for the" 
future. "To the last moment of our fives,** 
said they, trembling. " Before this mutiny;" 
continued the captain, " I always' took ' you 
for honett men, and am willing to believe that r 
you were forced to take a part in it. * I hope/' 
however, you wilt make amend? for the past, 
by being steady and faithful in future." The 
three sailors heartily repenting of their folly, 
shed tears of joy on being forgiven. ' The, 
captain gave them oack thefr arras, "and desired " 
them to yield a punctual obedience 1 '^to their 
common chief. Friday and one of the sailors' 
were then ordered' to go behind the tinckets, 
about a mile from the boat, and answer tht 

it ,. . - • ' U-i ' ?* "- Jv ' x 

'* ■ / 



.. / ; : -. .■: ' * 

NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 171 

men whenever they called ;, then, as soon as 
they perceived , that . the others, heard them, 
they were to go farther, in, by degrees, amongst 
the underwood* in order to draw the sailors 
after, them to at great a distance as possible 
from shore* , 

, This stratagem succeeded completely. No 
sooner cjid the sajlors in. the boat Jiear a voice 
answer them, r than jtaking their muskets, , they 
ran towards that quarter frepit whence thty 
heard the voice.. Two were left to guard. the 
boat. Friday and his , companion, performed 
their part admirably* They drew the sailors 
after them, amongst the thickets* about three 
miles , ifrom the shore, and then they hastened 
back w^tb all speed to join their xommanders. 
In the mean time, Robinson had .unfolded to 
.the captain his whole plan for mattering these 
people without bloodshed* Night . now came 
on, and it grew by degrees darker and darker. 
Robinson and his companions- advanced silent- 
ly towards the boat, till within about twenty 
yards of it, then tbey all showed themselves at 
once, and, with much noise and clattering of 
their arms* threatened the two men with instant 
death, , if they dared to star a step. They beg- 
ged for; quarter, upon which Robinson's party 
went up, to them and tied their hands. Tins 
done, they made haste to draw; up ihe boat to 
a .considerable di/staace- from the . water, led 
away their two prisoners, and concealed them- 
selves behind the bushes, to wait for the return 
k 2 




3* CRUSOJE. 

*©y came back strag-* 
and all exceedingly 
p ^successful expedition. 
'five of them together, 
teea pardoned was sent 
™*er they chose to lay 
foment, adding, that, in 
B governor of the island 
tinem of men riot thirty 
><B could not possibly miss 
^ was- dark, and that he had 
^at* rest of their companions prisoners, 
time, Robinson and his company 
a clattering with their arms, to confirm 
the sailor's account. " Can we hope for par- 
don ?" said one of them. The captain answered, 
" Thomas Smith, you know my voice ; lay 
down your arms instantly, ami you shaft all 
he spared your lives, except Atkins." : He, it 
seems, was the principal ringleader of the 
mutiny. , 

They all immediately threw down their 
arms. Atkins begged for mercy, entreated 
the captain's compassion, and represented to 
him that he was not more guilty than the rest. 
The captain answered him, that all he could 
do was to intercede for him with the governor, 
and he must wait the effect of that intercession. 
Then Friday and the three sailors were sent 
to tie their hands; and the other three muti- 
neers returning, at the same time, from their 
ramble among the thickets, they were informed 

Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



}JKW BOB1NSON CRUSOE. V73 

of what had passed, and dropping all thought* 
of resistance, submitted to be tied with the 
rest. 

Upon this, Robinson came forward to die 
prisoners and informed them that, their offence 
being mutiny, they should receive a full par- 
don* on the condition of assisting their lawful 
com in ami er to recover possession of his ship. 
They all protested that they would perform 
this condition with the greatest cheerfulness 
and fidelity, Jn the mean time, the ship's 
carpenter was ordered immediately to repair 
the boat that was scuttled ; and, as soon as this 
was done, they launched them both. They 
captain commanding one, and the mate the 
other, the crew being equally divided between 
them, and provided with arms and ammu- 
nition. 

The expedition against the mutineers was as 
successful as could be wished ; after a few hours 
absence, the captain returned and informed Ro- 
binson that he became master of the ship without 
kHlmg or wounding a single person. The night 
was so dark that the mutineers never saw him, 
and. so made not the least difficulty in receiving 
those on board who accompanied him. The 
most refractory Were going, it is true, to stand 
upon their defence, but their resistance would 
have been vain; they would immediately have 
been overpowered and laid in irons. When 
he had finished his recital, he indulged his 
feelings of gratitude to his deliverer. " It is 



1?4 fcfcW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

you," said he, with tears in his eyes, " ijt is 
^oii, generous man ! who restored me my sing, 
she is now yours ; you styall dispose ^>oth of 
that kml me at your pleasure." He then or- 
dered the men to lay on the table some refresh- 
ments that he had brought from, the ship, and 
the whole company, with hearts full of joy, sat 
down to an excellent breakfast. 

Robinson now related bis strange adven- 
tures which more than once excited the cap- 
tain's highest admiration. The latter entreated 
Robinson to tell him what he should do , for 
him. " Besides what I stipulated yester- 
day," answered he,. "I request you to^ wait 
the return of the Spaniards and my man Fri- 
day's father; secondly, to receive aboard your 
ship, hot only me and my people, but also all 
the Spaniards, whom you will land in tfoeir 
own country, sailing to Cadiz for that purpose." 
He was still speaking — when Friday, out of . 
breath, brought the pleasing news that his 
father was coming with the Spaniards, and. 
that they were that moment landing. 411 * D Q 
company prepared to go and meet them.-— 
Friday flew to the sea-side, and embraced his 
father again and again, before the rest came 

U P # ;. 

Robinson now took an inventory of the few. 
goods that he intended to carry away with 
them, and which were to be immediately put 
on board the ship. They were, 1st, the diggs 
of skins that he had made for himself, together 
with the umbrella and tfie mask; 2dly, die 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 

spear, the bow and, arrows* and the stona. 
hatched which were also his own workmanship: 
3dly, Poll, the spaniel, and two lamas : 4tbly, 
several utensils and pieces of furniture which 
he, had made while he was alone; 5tfely, the 
gold dust and diamonds : and lastly, the lump* 
of gold, which was his own property, 

All these articles being carried aboard, and 
the wind favourable, their departure was fixed 
for the, next day. 

Towards evening, Robinson made his excu- 
ses, and begged permission to be alone for an 
tour. Every one withdrawing, he went to 
the, ,top of tjie Jiillock; there he revolved hu- 
m's mind the series of events that had happened 
during his abode upon the island, be kneeled 
upon the. ground, and his heart full of the 
liveliest gratitude, opened itself in tbankegir- 
ing fp God. How shall I express his pious 
acknowledgments? But hearts, like, his will 
find, in their own feelings the expression of 
, those sentiments which words cannot interpret. 

l£he next morning, Robinson accompanied 
by Thursday, Friday, and the Spaniards, went 
aboard, and, soon after, the vessel weighed 
anchor* The wind blew so. favourably that 
the island seemed to withdraw from them very 
fast As long ae it was in sight, Robinson, 
standing upon the deck in mournful silence, 
kept \as eyes fixed upon the spot, which, from 
his having lived upon it so long, and experi- 
enced jan4 surmounted Jwany distresses there, 
was become almost as dear to him as his own 



176 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

native country. At length having lost sight 
of the island, and the top of its highest hiU, 
be retired into the cabin with Thursday and 
Friday, in order to relieve the oppression of 
his thoughts in friendly conversation. 

' They had a very fine voyage, and in twenty- 
four days cast anchor in the harbour of Cadiz, 
where they landed all their Spanish passengers. 
Robinson went into the town to enquire for 
the merchant to whom the barrel of gold dust 
belonged, which he bad saved from the wreck. 
He was fortunate enough to find him,, and to 
learn that the honest merchant, by recovering 
this gold, would be extricated from great diffi- 
culties, into which the loss of his ship had 
thrown him. 

Setting sail from Cadiz, the ship arrived 
without any accident at Portsmouth. Robin- 
eon hoped to find there the person to whom he 
was to restore the diamonds. He found him, 
indeed, but in very low circumstances. He, 
therefore, once more experienced the satis- 
faction, so delightful to every man of bene- 
volence, of being an instrument in the hands 
of Providence to dry up the tears of the un- 
fortunate, and put an end to their distresses. l 

As Robinson found here a small vessel go- 
ing to Plymouth immediately, he took leave 
of his captain, not chusing to go by land* 
and hastened with Friday aboard the Plymouth 
vessel; which set sail that same evening. This 
short passage was soon performed. They 
were already in eight of the Eddistone light- 



NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. * 177 

house, when suddenly a violent storm arose* 
Which earned the vessel to the westward. All 
that skill and activity could do, was put in 
practice to tack and keep out to sea, but to 
no purpose: a furious gust of wind rendered 
all jtheir exertions Useless; it forced the ship 
Upon a sand- bailk with such violence that she 
bulged. The water came pouring in so fast, 
that the people had scarcely time to take to 
their boat, which was the only resource they 
hail to preserve their lives. They fortunately 
reached shore, at a place not far from Ply- 
mouth. Robinson and the ship's crew imme- 
diately steered their course thither; he, like 
a poor traveller, now twice shipwrecked, and 
saving out of all his effects nothing but his 
faithful spaniel, who swam after the boat, and 
Poll, bis parrot, which flew upon his shoul- 
der the moment she saw him leave the ship.— 
He stopped in Plymouth that night, and the 
next day learned, that amongst the goods saved 
from the wreck, were his umbrella and suit of 
clothes made of skins. — These, being of no 
use to the finder; were restored to him by a 
fisherman for a trifling gratuity. 

He h now exactly as rich as when he for- 
merly set sail from Plymouth. But the loss 
of all gave him little concern, as he proposed 
to live all the rest of his days as soberly, and 
with the same perseverance in labour, as if he 
were still an inhabitant of his island. 

He now took the coach for his native city, 
Exeter. He had already learned at Ports- 

Digitized by VnOOQ IC 



178 nbw Robinson crusoe. 

mouth th&t his mother wad dead, thai affec- 
tionate and tender mother, and he bitterly 
lamented her loss. Going into the inn at 
which the' carriage stopped, he chose to send 
to his father, in order to prepare him by de- 

?'ees for the unexpected return of his son.; — 
he man who was charged with this message 
had orders to tell the old gentleman, at first, 
that a person desired to speak with him, w)»o 
brought him agreeable news from his son : he 
was, after some time, to add, that his son 
was coming to Exeter; and, lastly, to declare 
that the bearer, of these agreeable tidings was 
his son himself. After this precaution, Ro- 
bmsoh, Who still knew the street perfectly 
well, flies to his father's house. As soon as 
he arrived there, in a transport of inexpressi- 
ble joy he throws himself into his father's arms, 
who trembled all over. " Qh my fother 1".^— 
" My .dear son !*' — was all that tjWy could say. 
Trembling and speechless, they . remained 
seine time locked in each others' arms: at 
length, a seasonable flood , of tears relieved 
both their breasts, which, were almost suffo- 
cated with joy. Friday, whom the multitude 
of different objects that he saw, filled wi{h 
surprise, was staring about in silence. The 
^rjft day he . saw nothing ; he was dazzled, 
confounded, and could fix on no object^ , 

In the mean time,, the noise of Robinson 
Crusoe's return and bis surprising adventures 
was spread rapidly through t£e city of Exeter. 
He was the principal subject of conversation, 



NEW RQBIN50N CRUSOE. 179^ 

and numbers crowded to see him ; desiring to 
hear him relate his adventures himself. His, 
father's bouse' was crowded, and Robinson 
was employed in relating his story from morn- 
ing to evening: in the course of which { he , 
never forgot to address to the fathers and mo- 
thers 'who' heard him, the following exhorta- 
tion, " If 4 you love your children, I pray you,, 
teach, them, m their early years, to be godly» 
sober, and laborious, " and if there happened ) 
to be voting persons present, he was careful to . 
give them this wholesome advice, "My dear 
children, obey your parents and your teachers . 
—-learn diligently whatever you have a capa- 
city to; learn — fear God, and be careful — oh, 
be careful to avoid idleness! It is the mother 
of' every vice," 

Robinson's father was by profession a bro- 
ker, and he. wished to see his son apply to 
his own business ; but Robinson, long accus- 
tomed to the pleasure of manual labour, 
begged his permission to learn the trade of a , 
carpenter, and his father not opposing his 
inclination, he put himself, together with 
Friday^ to learn that business, in which they 
made such proficiency that, before the end 
of tne year, they could work with as much 
neatness and dispatch as any of the trade in 
Exeten ' : " ' ' "' - 

After some time, they opened the business 
in partnership, and, during their whole lives, 
remained faithful and attached friends. In 
remembrance of their former solitary way of 



180 NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

life, they pitched upon one day in the week to 
live in the same manner as they used ,in their 
island, as far as that could be done. Concord 
between themselves, indulgence for the faults 
of others, beneficence towards those whom 
they knew, and humanity to all men, were 
virtues so habitual to them, that they could, 
not conceive how any one who neglected the 
practice of them, could be happy. They 
were particularly distinguished by a pure* 
sincere, and active piety. Joy and love were 
seen to sparkle in their eyes, whenever they 
reflected upon the mercies ^of that Creator 
who had preserved them in the hours of 
danger in this world, and through his Son 
opened a way to a better. The blessings of 
Heavro visibly crowned all their endeavours. 
They reached a very advanced age in health 
and peace; and the remotest posterity will 
respect the memory of two men, who, by 
their example, have shown to the world in 
wha$ manner we may best work out our tem- 
poral welfare in this life, and fulfil the duties 
of a sincere christian; leaving to posterity 
this instructive lesson, that whatever trials 
await us, we should bear them with fortitude, 
since ttius we deprive adversity of its sting; 
and that the happiest are those who lead a 
life of actirity and industry, 

, • Digitized by VjOO 



t 



Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



Digitized by VnOOQ 1C 



This book should be returned to 
the Library on or before the last date 
stamped below. 

A fine of five cents a day is incurred 
by retaining it beyond the specified 
time. 

Please return promptly. 




Digitized by LnOOQ IC 



