“W” _m
':>e;0(3)DDH(C/‘
/
THE
“W” _m
OF
ROBINSON OBUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS ROUND THREE
PARTS OF THE GLOBE.
. , ~ ~ \ \
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ZWEGKEIR‘; -._ 3 ‘C
COMPLETE EDITION.
“W” _m
JAMES BLACKWOOD AND CO., 8, LOVELL’S COURT,
PATERNOSTER ROW.
129$?
EELS
L451 L \myv‘k
;\

LIBRARY
’7 5 8 6 ’7 4 A
ASTOR, LENOX AND
TIL-DEN FOUNDATLON$
MW. 1 v
TA
3 Y M
1. 7a
~
3 U
 WI
L3 Ill!



L
1935
R

I 50w
.0
'Q... Q
r O \l..0
n ‘Quay
0.
00  v r .-
OJ G
‘..ee: o v
Je¢r€ 00"..
c u c 5010‘
;\
Q.
l~000 a.
O ‘ ,J
5
4 O
00
KRAUS 24DEC'34
PREFACE.
Ir ever the story of any private man’s adventures in the world were worth making public, and
were acceptable when published, the Editor of this account thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man’s life exceed all that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the life
of one man being scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and with a religious application of events
to the uses to which wise men always apply them, viz. to the instruction of others, by this
example, and to justify and honour the wisdom of Providence in all the variety of our circum-
stances, let them happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just history of facts, neither is there any appearance
KRAUS 24DEC'34
ment of it, as well to the diversion as to the instruction of the reader, will be the same; and as
such, he thinks, without further compliment to the world, he does them a great service in
the publication.
A2
n
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON ORUSOE.

I WAS born in the year 1632 in the city of York, of a good family, thou h not of that country,
THE
merchandise, and leaving of f his trade, lived afterward at York ; from whence he had married
my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good family in that country, and
from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the usual corru tion of words in
England, we are now called, nay we call ourselves, and write our name rusoe; and so my
companions always called me.l
I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot
in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the
battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became of my second brother I never knew,
any more than m father or mother did know what was become of me.
THE
very early with rambling thoughts. My father, who was very ancient, had given me a com-
petent share of learning as far as house education and a country free-school generally goes,
THE
my inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay the commands of my father,
and against all the entreaties and persuasrons of my mother and other friends, that there
seemed to be something fatal in that propension of nature tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent counsel against what he
foresaw was my design. He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
THE
me what reasons more than a mere wandering inclination I ad for leaving my father’s
house and my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had a prospect of
raising my fortune by application and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told
me it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these things were all either
too far above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or what might be
called the upper station of low life, which he had found by long experience was the best
state in the world, the most suited to human happiness, not ex osed to the miseries and
hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of man ind and not embarrassed
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy, of the upper part of ma kind. He told me I
might ’udge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, viz. that this was the state of
life which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable con-
sequences of being born to great things, and wish they had been placed in the middle of the two
extremes, between the mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as
the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty or riches.
6 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
6 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
among the upper and lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest
disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind;
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses either of body or mind,
as those were who by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies on one hand, or by hard
6 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
u on themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that the middle station
of) life was calculated for all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plent were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
ealt , society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings
attending the middle station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of
the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circum-
stances, which rob the soul of peace and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion of
envy or secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy circumstances, sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling
that they are happy, and learning by every day’s experience to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate manner, notto pla the
young man, not to precipitate myself into miseries which nature and the station of ’fe 1
was born in seemed to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of
life which he had been just recommending to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should have
nothing to answer for‘; having thus discharged his duty in warning me against measures which
he knew would be to my hurt: in a word, that as he would do ver kind things for me if I
would stay and settle at home as he directed, so he would not ave so much hand in
my misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go away. And to close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions
to keep him from going into the low country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he was killed; and though he said he would not
cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me that if I did take this foolish step,
6 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly prophetic, though I suppose
my father did not know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down his face
very plentifully, and especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that
when he s oke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved
that he bro ‘e off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could be otherwise; and I resolved
not to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my father’s desire.
But alas! a few days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of my father’s further
importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did
6 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
time when Ithought her a little pleasanter than ordina , and told her that my thoughts
were so entirel bent upon seeing the world that I shoul never settle to anything with re-
solution enoug to o t rough with it, and my father had better give me his consent than
force me to go wit out it: that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never
serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from my master before my time
was out, and go to sea: and if she would speak to my father to let me o but one voyage
abroad, if I came home again and did not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise
by a double diligence to recover that time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion; she told me, she knew it would be to no purpose
to spea to my father upon any such subject; that he knew toowell what was my interest to
give his consent to any thin so much for my hurt, and that she wondered how I could think
of any such thing after such a discourse as I had had with m father, and such kind and
tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me; and t at in short, if I would ruin
myself, there was no help for me; but I mi ht de end I should never have their consent to it;
that for her part she would not have so muc han in my destruction; and I should never have
it to say that my mother was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as I have heard afterwards, she
reported all the discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a great concern at it,
said to her with a sigh, “That bo might be happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most misera le wretch that was ever born; I can give no consent to it.”
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though in the meantime I con-
tinued obstinately deaf to all roposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating
with my father and mother a ut their being so positively determined against what they
knew m inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and witliout any purpose of making an elopement that time; but I say, being there, and one
of my companions being going by sea to London, in his father’s ship, and prompting me to go
with them, with the common alluremeut of seafaring men, viz. :—that it should cost me not ’
for my passage, I consulted neither father or mother any more, not so much as sent them wo
of it: but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking God’s blessing, or my
father’s, without any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 7
young adventurer’s misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued longer than mine. The
ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the waves
to rise in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I was most
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 7
I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of eaven for my wicked
leaving my father’s house, and abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of my parents, my
father’s tears and my mother’s entreaties came new fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached me
with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had never been upon before, went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor like what I saw a
few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and had
never known anythiu of the matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time t e ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more, and in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot
upon dry land again I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship
again while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries
as these an more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of ife, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his days, and never had been
exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that 1 would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm continued, and, indeed,
some time after; but the next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to be
a little inured to it; however I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea-sick still;
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 7
followed; the sun went down erfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; an having little
or no wind, and a smooth sea, t [8 sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking
with wonder upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm
and so pleasant in so little time after. And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me, “Well, Bob," says he, clapping me
upon the shoulder, “How do you do after it? I warrant ou were frighted, wan’t you, last
night, when it blew but a cap full of wind? ” “A cap full, o you call it? ” said I. “ It was a
terrible storm.” “A storm, you fool you,” replies he, “ Do you call that a storm ? why it was
nothing at all; give us but a good shi and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of wind as that; but you’re but a fres -water sailor, Bob : come, let us make a bowl of punch,
and we’ll forget all that: do you see what charming weather it is now ? ” To make short this
sad part of my story, we went the old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. In a word, as the sea was
returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so
the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by
the sea being forgotten, and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and the serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes, but I shook
them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper, and applying myself to
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
not to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse.
For if I would not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us would confess both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind having been
contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. :-—-at south-
west, for seven or eight days, durin which time a great man ships from Newcastle came into
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
We had not however rode here so long, but should have tided it up the river, but that the
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
roads being reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle very
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent the
time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day in the morning, the
wind increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and make every thing
snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very high
indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode
with two anchors a-head, and the cables veered out to the better end.
B this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see terror and amazement
in t e faces even of the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the business of
reserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to
himself say several times, “ Lord, be merciful to us, we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone ;”
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
so apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against; I thought t e bitterness of death
8 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
came by me, as I said just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frightened; I
got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw:the sea went
mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes: when I could look about, I
couldisee nothing but distress round us : two ships that rode near us, we found, had cut their
masts by the board, being deep laden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rode about a
mile a-head of us was foundered. Two more ships being driven from their anchors, were run
out of the roads to sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The light ships
fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or three of them drove, and cam
close by us, running away with only their spritsail out before the wind. '
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away
the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do: but the boatswaiu protesting to him, that
if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and when they had cut away the foremast,
the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away
also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was but a young sailor, and
who had been in such a fright before at but a little. But if I can express at this distance the
thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of
my former convictions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9
into such a condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet: the
storm continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never
known a worse. We had 8. o0d ship, but she was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that
the seamen eve now and t en cried out, she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I ’d not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired. However, the storm
was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others
more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship would
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses, one of
the men that had been down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a leak; another said
there was four foot water in the hole. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed
where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me. that I that was able
to do nothing before, was as well able to ump as another: at which I stirred up, and went to
the pump and worked very heartily. ’ e this was doing, the master seeing some light
colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would
not come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I who knew nothing what
that meant, was so surprised, that I thou ht the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, t at I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when every body had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me;
but another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent that the shi would
founder; and though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not ossible she can d swim
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9
who had rode it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship’s side; till at last, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to
save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stern with the buoy to it, and then veered it out
a great length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them
close under our stern and got all into their boat. It was to no pur se for them or us after we
were in the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all agree to let her drive, and only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could, and our master promised them, that if the
boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to their master: so partly rowing and
part1 driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far
as interton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship before we saw her sink,
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9
must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking;. for
from that moment they rather put me into the boat than that I might be said to go in: .my
heart was as it were dead within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the car to bring the boat near the
shore, we could see (when our boat mounting the waves we were able to see the shore) a great
many people running along the shore to assist us when we should come near, but we made but
slow way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till being past the light-house
at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward towards Gromer, and so the land broke oE a
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we
were used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us good
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of shi s, and had money given us sufficient
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy,
and my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour’s parable, had even killed the fatted calf for
me; for hearin the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Road, it was a great
while before he ad an assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pus ed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could resist; and though
I had several times loud calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go home,
yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret
overruling decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own'destruction, even though
it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some
such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for me to escape,
could have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the master’s son, was now
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered; and looking very melancholy, and shaking
his head, asked me how I did, and tellin his father who I was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, in order to go fart er abroad. His father, turning to me with a very
grave and concerned tone, “ Young man,” says he, “ you ought never to go to sea any more,
you ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man.”
“ Why, sir,” said I, “will ou go to sea no more ?” “That is another case,” said he, “it is my
calling, and therefore my uty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste
heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you persist; perhaps this is all befallen
us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish.” “Pray,” continued he, “what are
you? and on what account did you go to sea?” Upon that I told him some of my story, at
the end of which he burst out with a strange kind of assion. “ What had I done,” says he,
“that such an unhappy wretch should come into my s ip! I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds.” This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of
his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. However, he afterwards talked ve gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to
my father and not tempt Providence to my ruin; to d me I might see a visible hand of heaven
against me ; “ and, young man,” said he, “ depend upon it if you do not go back, wherever you
go you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your father’s words are
IO T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
We arted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no more; which way he
went, know not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by
land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with myself what course of life
I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts; and it
immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and should be
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have
since often observed how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is,
especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are
not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for which they
ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning which only can make them
be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what measures to take and
what course of life to lead. ,An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed a while, the remembrance of the distress I had been in were off, and as that abated,
the little motion I had in my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a vo age.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune; and that impressed those conceits so
forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
tunate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of
Africa, or as our sailors vnlgarly call it a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not ship myself as a sailor,
whereh , though I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the same
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate to choose
for the worse, so I did here; for having money in my pocket, and ood clothes upon my back,
I would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither had any business
in the ship, or learned to do any.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
happen to such loose and unguided youn fellows as I then was, the devil enerally not omit-
to lay some snare for them very ear y; but it was not so with me. I fgirst fell acquainted
wit the master of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very
good success there, was resolved to go again; and who taking a fancy to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the voyage with him I should be at no expense. I should be his messmate
and his companion, and if I could carry an thing with me I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade would admit ; and perhaps Iymight meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship with this captain, who was an
honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with
me, which by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded with,
and who, I believe, got my father, or at least, my mother to contribute so much as that to my
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
This was the only voya e which I may say was successful in all my adventures, and which I
owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain, under whom also I got a competent
knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to kee an account of
the ship’s course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some t ings that were
needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn, and in a word this voyage madezrne both a sailor and a merchant, for I brought home
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
pleted my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too, particularly that I was continually sick,
being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trading
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend. to my great misfortune, dying soon
after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage a ain, and I embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in the former voyage, an had now got the command of the ship.
This was the nnhappiest voyage that ever man made : for thou h I did not carry quite 1001. of
my new gained wealth, so that I had 2001. left, and which I lodged with my friend’s widow,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
this, viz.,—Our ship making her course towards the Canar Islands, or rather between those
islands and the A rican shore, was surprised in the grey o the morning by a Turkish rover of
Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter instead of athwart
our stem, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
also his small shot from near 200 men which he had on board. However, we had not a man
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again and we to defend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time u on our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting an hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, half-Pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our
men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into
Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
country to the emperor’s court, as the rest of our men were; but was kept by the captain of the
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
At this surprising change of my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was
erfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my father’s rophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable and have none to relieve me, which I t on ht was now so effectually
brought to pass that I could not be worse: that now the hand of Iieaven had overtaken me,
and was undone without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to
go through, as will appear in the sequel of the story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house, so I was in hopes that he
would take me with him when he went to sea again, believing that it would some time or other
be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war; and that then I should be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, _he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house ;
and vlzhen he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after
the s ip.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I might take to effect it: but
found no way that had the least probability in it; nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational. For I had nobody to communicate it to, that would embark with me; no fellow-
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two years, though
I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself, which put the old thought of
making some attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home longer than
usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used con-
stantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was fair, to take the ship’s
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very 'dexterous in catching
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
though we were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not
whither or which way, we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when the morning came
we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least
two leagues from the shore. However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour
and some danger: for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning, but, particularly, we
were all very hungry. ’
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of himself for the future;
and having lying by him the long boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he would
12 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of his ship who also was an English slave, to build a little state-room or cabin in the mi dle of
‘my - Q
the lonrr boat, like that of a barge with a place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the
main sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with
what we called a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which
lay ve snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
particularly, his bread, rice and coffee.
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
for him, he never went without me. It hap ned that he had appointed to go out in this boat,
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
for whom e had provided extraordinarily; and had therefore sent on board the boat over night
a larger store of provisions than ordinary ; and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with
powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling as
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next morning with the boat washed
clean, her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to accommodate his guests; when by and
by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his ests had put off going, upon some
business that fell out, and ordered me with the man an boy as usual, to go out with the boat
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, for now I found I
was like to have a little ship at my command ; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
as consider, whither I s ould steer; for any w ere to get out of that place was my way.
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
subsistence on board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron’s bread. He
said that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars
with fresh water into the boat. I knew where my patron’s case of bottles stood, which it was
evident by the make were taken out of some English prize; and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our master. I conveyed
also a reat lump of beeswax into the boat, which weighed about half a hundred weight, with
a parce of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to
us afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also; his name was Ismael, who they call Muly, or Moley ; so I called to
him, “ Moley,” said I, “ our patron’s guns are on board the boat, can you not get a little powder
and shot, it may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner’s stores in the ship ?” “ Yes,” says he, “ I’ll bring some;” and,
accordingly, he brought a great leather pouch which held about a pound and a half of powder,
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
all into the boat. At the same time I had found some powder of my master’s in the great
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
what was in it into another; and thus furnished with everything needful we sailed out of the
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
it blown southerly I had been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the
bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from that
horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
not pull them up, that he might not see them; I said to the Moor, this will not do, our master
will not be thus served, we must stand farther o1f: he thinking no harm agreed, and being in
the head of the boat set the sails; and as I had the helm I_ run the boat out near a league
T 1ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 3
d to where the Moor was, and making as if I stoo ed or something behind him, I took
{23%; surprise with my arm under his twist, and tease him clear overboard into the sea. He
rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to me, begged to be taken in, told me he
would go all over the world with me; he swam so strong after the boat that he would have
reached me very quickl , there being but little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and
fetching one of the fowhng-pieces, I resented it at him, and told him I had done him no hurt,
and if he would be quiet I would do ‘m none: but, said I, you swim well enough to reach to
the shore, and the sea is calm, make the best of your we to shore, and I will do you no harm,
butif you come near the boat I’ll shoot you through the ead; for I am resolved to have my
liberty; so he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he
reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have drowned the boy, but
there was no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, who they called
Xury, and said to him, “ Xury, if you will be faithful to me I’ll make you a great man, but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me, that is, swear by Mahomet and his father’s
beard, I must throw you into the sea too : ” the boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out directl to sea with the
boat, rather stretching to windward, that they might think me gone towards t e Straits mouth
(as indeed any one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do), for who would
have supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole
nations of Negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could
never once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind.
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course, and steered directly south
and by east, bending my course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the shore;
and having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by
I4 ‘ T/ze Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, or, indeed,
of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful apprehensions I had of
falling into their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor. The wind
I4 ‘ T/ze Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now
give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what
river: I neither saw, or desired to see any people, the principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and
discover the country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy
was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day. “ Well, Xury,” said
I, “ then I won’t, but it may be we may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions.”
“ Then we give them the shoot gun,” says Xury, laughing; “make them run wey.” Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However I was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a drachm (out of our patron’s case of bottles) to cheer him up: after
all Xury’s advice was good, and I took it; we dropped our little anchor and lay still all night;
I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three ours we saw vast great creatures (we knew
not what to call them) of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and, indeed, so was I too; but we were both more frightened
when we heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat: we could not
see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast.
Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me to
weigh the anchor and row away. “N o,” says I, “ Xury, we can slip our cable with a buoy to it
and go off to sea, they cannot follow us far.” I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the
creature (whatever it was) within two oars length, which something surprised me; however, I
T [ze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5
immediately turned about, and swam towards the s ore ain.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and ideous cries and howlings, that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore, as higher within the country, u on the noise or
report of the gun; a thin I have some reason to believe those creatures ad never heard
before: this convinced me t at there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another question too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the hands of lions and
tigers; at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for water, for we had
not a pint left in the boat; when or where to get to it was the point. Xury said, if I would
T [ze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5
to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the boat? The
boy answered with so much affection that made me love him ever after. Sa s he, “If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go wey.” “W'ell, Xury,” said I, “we will bot go, and if the
wild mans come, we will kill them, t ey shall eat neither of us; ” so I gave Xury a piece of
rush-bread to eat, and a drachm out of our patron’s case of bottles which I mentioned before;
and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and waded on shore;
carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of canoes with savages down
the river: but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country rambled to it; and by-
and-by I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or
frightened with some wild beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him, but when I came
nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had
shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it, and
it was very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found
good water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such ains for water; for a little
higher up the creek where we were, we found the water freslh when the tide was out, which
T [ze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5
prepared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the
country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well that the islands of the
Canaries, and the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found some of these
islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part where the
T [ze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5
relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that lace where I now was, must be that country, which lying
between the Emperor of Morocco’s ominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south for fear of the
Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; and, indeed,
both forsaking it because of the prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious
creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go
like an army, two or three thousand men at a time; and, indeed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day; and heard
nothing but howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the
mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching
thither ; but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too
T [ze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5
Several times I was obli ed to land for fresh water after we had left this place; and once in
particular, being early in t e morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land which ,
16 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rvbinson Crusoe.
were more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had best
go farther off the shore, for, says he, “ Look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side 'of that
hillock fast asleep.” I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was
a terrible great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a iece of the hill that
hung as it werea little over him. “Xury,” says I, “you shall 0 on s ore and kill him.”
Xury looked frightened, and said, “ Me kill! he eat me at one mout ;” one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still; and took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces,
16 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rvbinson Crusoe.
shot him in the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit
16 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rvbinson Crusoe.
leg broke fell down again, and then got upu on three legs, and gave the most hideous :oar that
ever I heard. I wa a little surprised that had not hit him on the head; however, I took up
16 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rvbinson Crusoe.
the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise, but lay strugglin
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let him go on shore. "Well, go,” said .
So the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the
other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot
him in the head again, which despatched him quite. _
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food: and I was very sorry to lose three charges
of powder and shot upon a creature that was ood for nothing to us. However, Xury said he
would have some of him; so he comes on boardg, and asked me to give him the hatchet. “ For
what, Xur ?” said I. “Me cut of his head,” said he. However, Xury could not cut off his
head, but e cut o1f a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that erhaps the skin of him might one way or other be of some
value to us; and I resolved to take o% his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went to work with
him; but Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it
took us up both the whole day; but at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the
ilziop of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days’ time, and it afterwards served me to
e u on. -
A ter this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days, living veryg
sparingly on our provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into thd
shore than we were obli ed to for fresh water: in design in this was, to make the river
Gambia or Sene al, that is to say, any where about t e Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes tof
meet with some i‘uropean ship: and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to,
seek for the Islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe;
which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, oi‘:
those Islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that;
I must meet with some ship, or must perish. Y 
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have said, I began to see?
that the land was inhabited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked.
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them ; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said
to me, “ No go, no go : ” however, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and
I found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed they had no weapons in their
hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance. and that they
would throw them a great way with good aim. So I kept at a distance, but talked with them
by signs as well as I could; and particularly made signs for something to eat: they beckoned to
me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top of my
sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in less than half-an-hour
.' I'.-sq
L‘ ~
T ln Lzfe and Advem'ures of Rabim’on Crusoe. I7 '
.' I'.-sq
produce of their country; but we neither knew what the one nor the other was: however,
we were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ven-
turing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for
us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off
till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us a sin.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them amends; but an oppor-
tunity offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying by the
shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury, from
the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male ursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more t an we could tell whether it was
.' I'.-sq
creatures seldom appear but in the night; and in the second place, we found the people
.' I'.-sq
from t em, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, they
didl not seem to offer to fall u n any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea,
and swam about as if they ha come for their diversion. At last one of them began to come
.' I'.-sq
with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As soon as he came fairly
.' I'.-sq
the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if he was struggling for life ;
and so indeed he was: he immediate y made to the shore, but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
.' I'.-sq
of my gun; some of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I mad
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began to search
for the creature. I found him by his blood stainin the water; and by the help of a rope, which I
slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, t ey dragged him on shore, and found that it
.' I'.-sq
their hands with admiration to think what it was I had killed him with.
.' I'.-sq
and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came, nor could I at that distance know
.' I'.-sq
willing to have them take it as a favour from me, which when I made signs to them that they
might take him, they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him, and
though they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, thei took off his skin as readily,
and much more readily, than we could have done with a knife: t ey offered me some of the
.' I'.-sq
they gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their provision, which though I
did not understand, et I accepted; then I made signs to them for some water, and held out
one of my jars to em, turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I
.' I'.-sq
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this
.' I'.-sq
three. The women were as stark naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly
Negroes, I made forward for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the shore, till
.' I'.-sq
leagues before me; and, the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point: at
length, doublin the point at about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other
side to seawar ; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de
Verd, and those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a
B
great distance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should be taken with a
fresh gale of wind I might neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I ste ped into the cabin and set me down, Xnry
having the helm, when on a sudden the boy cried) out, “ Master, master, a shi with a sail!”
and t
master’s ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not only the ship, but what she was, viz.
that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes.
But when I observed the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound some other
way, and did not design to come any nearer to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in their way, but that
they would be gone by before I could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded to the
utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-
glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some shi
that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as
had my patron’s ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them for a si al of distress, and
18 Tim Lzfe and Adwntm’os of Robinson Crusoe.
hear the gun. Upon these signals they very kindly brought-to, and lay-by for me, and in
about three hours’ time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in French; but I understood
none of them; but at last a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I answered him,
and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors at Sallee. Then they bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
m oods.
Jitgwas an inexpressible joy to me, that any one would believe, that I was thus delivered, as
I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and imme-
diately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he
generously told me he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
safe to me when I came to the Brazils, “ for,” says he, “ I have saved your life on no other terms
than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken
up in the same condition. Besides,” said he, “when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a
way from your own country, if I should take from you what you have, you will be- starved
there, and then I only take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior Inglese,” says
he, “Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in charity, and those things will help you to
buy your subsistence there, and your passage home again.”
Ae he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in the erformance to a tittle, for he
ordered the seamen, that none should offer to touch anything I ad; then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them,that I might have them;
even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat it was a very good one, and that he saw, and told me he would buy it of
me for the ship’s use, and asked me what I would have for it? I told him he had been so
enerous to me in everything that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
18 Tim Lzfe and Adwntm’os of Robinson Crusoe.
to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and when it came there, if any one offered
to give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for
my boy Xury, which I was 1oth to take; not that I was not willing to let the captain have
him, but I was very 1oth to sell the poor boy’s liberty, who had assisted me so faith-
fully in rocuring my own. However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be
just, an offered me this medium, that he would (give the boy an obligation to set him free
in ten years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, an Xury saying he was willing to go to him,
I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or
All-Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered from
e foolish boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it must needs e some of his ,
the most miserable of all conditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now to
consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never enough remember: he would~take
nothing of me for my assage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard’s skin, and forty for the
lion’s skin, which I had in my boat, and caused ever thing I had in the shi to be punctually
delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he bong t, such as the case of ottles, two of my
guns, and a iece of the lump of bees-wax,for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made
about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a good honest man like
himself, who had an Irffenio, as they call it; that is, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived _
with him some time, an acquainted myself by that means with the manner of their planting
and making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get licence to settle there, I would turn lanter amon them, resolving
T lze Lg’fc and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe. 19
to me. To this urpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured) as my mone would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settle-
ment, and such a one as mig t be suitable to the stock WhiCh I proposed to myself to receive
from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English parents whose name was
Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call him neighbour, because his plantation
lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as
hi; and we rather planted for food, than anything else, for about two years. However, we
began to increase, and our land began to come into order; so that the third year we lanted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in t e year
to come; but we both wanted help, and now I found more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right, was no great wonder. I had no remedy
but to o on; I was gotten into an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary
to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my father’s house, and broke through all his
good advice. Nay, I was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of low life, which ’
my father advised me to before; and which if I resolved to go on with, I might as well have
stayed at home, and never have fat' ued myself in the world as I had done. And I used often
T lze Lg’fc and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe. 19
thousand miles off to do it, among strangers and sava es in a wilderness, and at such distance
as never to hear from any part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret. I had nobody to
converse with but now and then this neighbour, no work to be done but b the labour of my
hands; and I used to say, I lived 'ust like a man cast away upon some esolate island, that
T lze Lg’fc and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe. 19
when the compare their present conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them
to make t e exchange, an be convinced of their former felicity, by their experience. I say how
T lze Lg’fc and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe. 19
e my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life which I then led, in which, hadI
continued, I had in all probability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on the plantation before my kind
friend the captain of the ship that took me u at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there,
in providing his loading, and reparing for ’s voyage, near three months. When tellin him
what little stock I had left be ind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere a vice:
“ Seignor Inglese,” says he (for so he always ‘called me), “ if you will give me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders to the person who has your money in London, to send
your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for
this country, I will bring on the produce of them, God willing, at my return; but since human
affairs are all subject to c anges ‘and disasters, I would have you ive orders but for one hundred
T lze Lg’fc and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe. 19
3
that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for your supply.”
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could not but be convinced it
was the best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with
whom I had left my money, and a rocuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain’s wi ow a full account of all my adventures, m slavery, escape,
and how I had met with the Portu a1 captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and
what condition I was now in, with all other necessary directions for my supply; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means by some of the English merchants there,
to send over, not the order only, but a full account of my story, to a merchant at London, who
represented it effectually to her: whereupon, she not only delivered the money, but out of her
own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity
to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in English goods, such as the cap-
tain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils; among which, without my direction, (for I was too young in my business to
think of them) he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived I thought my fortune made, for I was surprised with joy of it;
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
for a present for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under bond for six years’
service, and would not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I would
have him accept, bein of my own produce.
Neither was this a ; but my goods being all English manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs,
baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage, so that I may say I had more than four times the value of my
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
also; I mean another besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest adversity, so
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries among
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
and in wealth, my head began to be full of pro'ects and undertakings beyond my reach; such
as are indeed often the min of the best heads in usiness.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have
yet befallen me for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet retired life, and of
which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full; but other things
attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries; and particularly
20 T he Life and Adventures of Ro’binson Crusoe.
should have leisure to make. All these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate
adhering to my foolish inclination of wanderin abroad, and pursuing that inclination in con-
tradiction to the clearest views of doin myse good in a fair and plain pursuit of those pro-
spects and those measures of life, whic nature and Providence concurred to present me with,
and to make my duty.
As I had done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I could not be content now, but
I must go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of
the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into,‘ or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of health in the
world.
To come then by the just degrees to the particulars of this art of my story ; you may sup-
pose, that having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and) beginning to thrive and prosper
very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had contracted
acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that in my discourses among them I had frequently
given them an account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust, Guinea grains,
elephants’ teeth, &c., but negroes for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads, but especially to
that part which related to the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not far
entered into, but as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assieutos, or permission of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public, so that few negroes were bought, and
those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and
talking of those things very earnestl , three of them came to me the next morning, and told
me they had been musing very muc upon what I had discourscd with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and after en'oining me secrecy, they told me
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
as I, and were straitened for nothin so much as servants; that as it was a trade that could
not be carried on, because they couldg not publicly sell the negroes when they came home; so
they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
their supercargo in the s i , to manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they
offered me that I should have my equal share of the negroes, without providing any part
of the stock.
This was a fair pro osal, it must be confessed, had it been made to any one that had not
had a settlement and p antation of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of coming to
be very considerable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered
and established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun, for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from England, and who in that time,
and with that little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most
preposterous thing that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the offer, than I
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should direct
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so;
and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of my death,
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life as before, my universal heir, but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will, one half of the produce
being to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and keep up my plantation;
had I used half as much prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made a
judgment of what I ought to have done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving cir-
cumstance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards; to say
nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy rather than my reason:
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
by agreement by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of
September, being the same day eight years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tons burthen, carried six guns, and fourteen men, besides the master,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe. 2 I-
22 T he Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the northward upon our own
coast, with design to stretch over for the African coast when they came about 10 or 12
degrees of northern latitude, which it seems was the manner of their course in those days. We
had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the way u ‘on our own coast, till we came the
height of Cape St. Augustmo; from whence keeping fart er off at sea, we lost sight of land,
and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our course N.E.
by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed the line in about twelve
days time, and were by our last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us uite out of our knowledge: it began from the south-
east, came about to the north-west, an then settled into the north-east, from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive; and
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds directed;
and during these twelve days I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men died of the calenture,
and one man and the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating
a little, the master made an observation as well as he could, and found that he was in about
11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference west from Cape
St. Augustino; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of
Brazil, beyond the river Amazones, toward that of the river Orono ue, commonly called the
Great River, and began to consult with me what course he should ta e, for the ship was leaky
and very much disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that, and lookin over the charts of the sea-coast of America
with him, we concluded there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and, therefore, resolved to stand away for Barbadoes,
which by keeping off at sea,to avoid the indraught of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily
22 T he Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered away N .W. by W. in order to reach
some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise deter-
mined; for being in the latitude of 12 degrees 18 min, a second storm came upon us, which
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way of
all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early in the morning,
cried out, “ Land!” and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of see-
ing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment,
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we
should all have perished immediately; and we were immediately driven into our close quarters,
to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like condition, to describe or conceive
the consternation of men in such circumstances: we knew nothing where we were, or upon
what land it was we were driven, whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not
22 T he Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces,
unless the winds by a kind of miracle should turn immediately about. In a word, we sat
looking one upon another, and expecting death every moment, and every man acting accord-
ingly as preparing for another world, for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this :
that which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that contrary to our
expectation the shi did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to abate.
Now though we ound that the wind did a little abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon
the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition
\
\
indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/aztures of Robinson Cruwe. 23
rudder, and in the next place she broke away, and either sunk or was driven o to sea, so there
was no hope from her; we had another boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was
a doubtful thing : however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
in pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and with the help of the rest of
the men, they got her slung over the ship’s side, and getting all into her, let go, and committed
ourselves, being eleven in number, to God’s mercy, and the wild sea; for though the storm was
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might well be called,
“ den wild zee,” as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high,
that the boat could not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we
had none, nor, if we had, could we have done anything with it; so we worked at the oar towards
the land, though with hea hearts, like men oing to execution: for we all knew that when
the boat came nearer the s ore, she would be ashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well
as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not; the only
hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great chance we might have run
our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and, perhaps, made smooth water. But there was
nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven about a league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging
wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup ale grace.
In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once : and separating us, as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, 0 God! for we were all
swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I sunk into the water; for
though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath,
till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me a vast way on towards the shore, and
having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost dr , but half dead with the
water I took in. I had so much presence of mind as well as breat left, that seeing myself
nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards
the land as fast as I could, before another wave should return and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or strength to contend with; my
business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could: and so by swim-
ming to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible: my greatest
concern now being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own
body; and I could feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a
very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to
my immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water;
and though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatl , gave me breath and new courage. I was covered again with water a good while, but
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/aztures of Robinson Cruwe. 23
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water went from me. and then took to my
heels, and ran with what strength I had farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice more I
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me
along as before, landed me, or rather dashed me against a piece of a rock, and that with such
force, as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow
taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my body; and had it not
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved
to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to‘ hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the shore, that the next
wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the next
run I took I got to the mainland, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the clifts of
the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of t e reach of the
water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank God that my life was
saved in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. I believe it
is impossible to express to the life what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is
so saved, as I may say, out of the very rave: and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz.
that when a malefactor, who has the ha ter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
with it, to let him bleed that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive
the animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him :—
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,~and my whole being, as I may say,
wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and motions
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
there should not be one soul save but myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after-
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not
fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and froth of the sea being so big, I
could Ihardly see it, it lay so far oE, and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on
shore .
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition, I began to look
round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found
my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet, had no
clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I see any
prospect before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts : and
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any ot er creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs: in a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe,
and a little tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies
of mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman; night coming upon me, I began with a
heavy heart to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time, was, to get up into a thick bushy
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked
24 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
my great joy; and having drunk, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I
went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I should sleep
I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up
my lodging, and having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myself the most refreshed with it
that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did
not rage and swell as before; but that which surprised me most, was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swellin of the tide, and was driven up almost
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
against it; this being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might save some necessary
things for my use.
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
thing I found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her, up upon the land,
about two miles on my right hand; I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to
her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat, which was about half a mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
A little after noon I onnd t e sea very calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief: for I
saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe, that is to say, we had all got
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company, as I now was: this forced tears from my eyes again, but as there was little
relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship- so I pulled off my clothes, for the
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
was still greater to know how to get on board, for as sh la a-ground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing within m reach to la hold of. 1y swam round her twice, and the
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
rope got up into the forecastle of the ship: here I onnd that the shi was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side a ban of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her he low almost to the water; by
this means all her quarter was free, and all that was in that art‘was dry; for you may be sure
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
that all the ship’s provisions were dry, and untouched by the water; and being very well
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
went about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin,
of which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for what
was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me. ‘
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, and this extremity roused my
application. We had several spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope that they might not
drive away; when this was done I went down the ship’s side, and pulling them to me, I tied
four of them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them crosswa s, I found I could walk upon it very well, but
that it was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light; so I went to work,
and with the carpenter’s saw I cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labour and pains: but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight; my next care was what to
load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
T/u: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25
upon, and a little remainder of European corn which had been laid by for some fowls which we
brou ht to sea with us, but the fowls were killed; there had been some barley and wheat
togetier, but, to my great disa pointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled
it all; as for liquors, I foun several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
there being no need to put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was doing this,
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches,
which were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my stockings: however,
this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
work with on shore; audit was after long searching that I found out the carpenter’s chest,
which was indeed a very useful rize to me, and much more valuable than a ship-load of gold
would have been at that time: Igot it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two very good fowling-pieces
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
bag of shot, and two old rusty swords : I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship,
but knew not where our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found them, two of
them dry and good, the third had taken water: those two I got to my raft, with the arms;
and now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should get to shore
with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder, and the least capfull of wind would have overset
all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: l. A smooth, calm sea: 2. The tide rising and setting into the
shore: 3. What little wind there was, blew me towards the land: ‘and thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an axe and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there-
abouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the place where
I had landed before, by which I perceived" that there was some indraft of the water, and con-
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to land with my cargo. _
As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me a little opening of the land, and I found
a strong current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well I could to kee in the middle
of the stream : but here I had liked to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, _I think
verily would have broken my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft run a-ground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and not being a-ground at the other end, it wanted but a little that
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
did my utmost, by setting m back against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust of the raft with a 1 my strength, neither durst I stir from the posture I was in; but
holding up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level; and a little after, the water still
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
driving up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both
sides, and a strong current or tide running up: I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river, ho ing in time to see some
ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as could.
t length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to which, with great pain and
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
could thrust er directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea again;
for that shore l ' g pretty steep, that is to say sloping, there was no place to land, but where
one end of the cat, if it run on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower as before,
that it would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do, was to wait till the tide was at the
highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side‘ of it fast to the shore,
26 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
1
soon as I found water enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water), I thrust her on upon
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
the ground; one on one side near one end; and one on the other side near the other end; and
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a pro er place for my habitation, and where
to stow my oods, to secure them from whatever might Ihappen; where I was I yet knew not;
whether on tge continent or on an island, whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether in dan er of
wild beasts or not; there was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and igh,
and which seemed to over-top some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it northward; I
took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the istols, and a horn of powder, and thus
armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of that ill, where, after I had with great labour
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great
way off, and two small islands less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe,
uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree on the
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew; as for the creature I killed, I
took it to be a kind of hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws more
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo
on shore, which took me up the rest of that day ; and what to do with myself at night I knew
not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some
Frild beast might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for those
ears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and boards that I
had brought on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night’s lodging: as for food, I yet saw
not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run
out of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider,.that I might yet get a great many thin s out of the ship, which would
be useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging and seals, an such other things as might
come to land, and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible; and as I
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
all other things apart, till I got every thin out of the shi that I could get: then I called a
council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whet er I should ta e back the raft: but this appeared
impracticable ; so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only that
I stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt, and a pair of
linen trousers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and repared a second raft; and having had experience of
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone : all these I secured, to ether with several things belonging to
the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, an two barrels of musket-bullets, seven
muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a lar e bag full
of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy I could not Iioist it up
to get it over the ship’s side. 
T/ze Lzfe and A dz/entm’es of Robinson Crusoe. 27
hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe
on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore; but when I came back, I found no si n of any visitor, only there
sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when Icame towards it, ran away
a little distance, and then stood still: she sat very composed, and unconcerned, and looked
full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me; I presented my gun at her, but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away :
upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though by the way I was not very free of it, for my'
store was not great: however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled it, ate
it, aililddloiézed, as pleased, for more : but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she
marc e o .
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to open the barrels of powder, and ‘
bring them by parcels (for they were too heavy, being large casks), I went to work to make me
a little tent with the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into this tent I
brought every thing that I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun, and I piled all the empty
chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, eit er
from man or beast.
When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent with some boards within, and an I
empty chest set up an-end without: and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy ; for the night before I had slept
little, and had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as
to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now, that ever were laid up, I believe, for one man;
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to get everything out of her that I could: so every day at low water I went on board, and
brought away something or other; but particular y the third time I went, I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope twine I could et, with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel o wet un-
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but
as mere canvas only.
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
such voyages as these, and thought I had nothing more to ex ect from the shi that was
worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found a great ogshead of brea , and three
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to me, because I had given over expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water : I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces
of the sails, which I cut out: and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now, having plundered the ship of what was
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the ironwork I could get ;
and having cut down the spritsail- ard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could to make
a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away : but my good luck began
now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy and so overladen, that after I had entered the
little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as
I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself it
was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I ex ected would have been of great use to me : however, when the
tide was out, I got most of t e pieces of cable ashore; and some of the iron, though with
28 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
After this, I went every day on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on board the ship, in which
time I had brought away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring;
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole
ship, piece by piece; but pre aring the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind begin to
rise : owever, at low water went on board, and though I thought I had rumma ed the cabin
so effectually, as that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker wit drawers in
it, in one of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or
a dozen of good knives and forks ; in another I found about thirt -six pounds value in money,
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gol , some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this mone . “ 0 drug !” said I, aloud, “ what art thou
good for ? thou art not worth to me, no, not t e taking off of the ground : one of those knives
is worth all this heap : I have no manner of use for thee, even remain where thou art and go
to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving.” However, upon second thoughts,
I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making another
raft; but while I was reparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise,
and in a quarter of an our it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me,
that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
shore at all; accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel, which
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
weight of things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all my wealth about me very
secure. It blew very hard all that night; and in the morning when I looked out, behold no
more ship was to be seen: I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
that could be useful to me; and that indeed there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out of her, except what might
drive on shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things
were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against either savages (if
any should appear) or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the
method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make; whether I should make me a cave
in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I resolved upon both, of the manner
and description of which it may not be im roper to give an account.
I soon found the place I was in was not fbr my settlement, particularly because it was upon
a low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would not be wholesome, and more parti-
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
more convenient spot of ground.
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
health and fresh water, I Just now mentioned; secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun;
thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; fourthly, a view to the sea ;
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which
I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet. ’ - - _
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose
front towards this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down
upon me from the top; on the side of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little wa
in, like the entrance or door of a cave: but there was not really any cave or way into the roc
at all.
T he Lzfe aad A riventures of Robinson Crusoe. 29
plain was‘ not above a hun ed yards broad, and a out twice as long, and lay like a green
before m door, and at the end of it descended irregularly every way down into the low
grounds y the sea-side. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill, so that I was sheltered from
the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those
countries is near the setting. _ _
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hollow place, which took in about
ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its
beginning and endin .
In this half circle Ipitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the ground till they
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and sharpened on the top; the two rows did not stand above six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows one u on
another, within the circle between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other sta es
in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it: this cost me
a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth. -
The entrance into this lace I made to be not by a door, but by a short ladder to go over the
top; which ladder, when was in, I lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in,
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I a prehended danger from.
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ammunition - and stores, of which you have the account above; and I made me a large tent,
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the year are very violent there, I made
double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost
with a large ta aulin which I had saved among the sails.
And now Irllziy no more for a while in the bed which I had brought on shore, but in a
hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that would spoil by the wet; and,
having thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and
so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short adder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock; and bringing all the earth and
stones that I dug down, out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of
a terrace, that so it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a
cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before all these things were brought to perfection,
and, therefore, I must go back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
happened, and after that a reat clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it: I was not
so much surprised with the 'ghtning, as I was with a thought w ich darted into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself: 0 my powder! my very heart sank within me, when I thought,
that at one blast all my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended: I was nothing near so anxious about my
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Such im ression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over, I laid aside all my
works, my uilding, and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the
powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
whic in all was about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels : as
to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend an danger from that, so I placed it in my
new cave, which in m fancy I called my kitchen; an the rest I hid up and down in holes
among the rocks, so t at no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once at least every day with my gun,
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
30 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; ut then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. :—that they were so shy, so subtle, and so
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
discouraged at this, not doubting but I mi ht now and then shoot one, as it soon happened ;
for after I had found their haunts a little} laid wait in this manner for them: I observed, if
they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a
terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the valle s, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of me : from whence I concluded, that by the position of their optics, their sight was
so directed downward, that they did not readily see objects that were above them: so afterwards
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her up ; and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure, upon which
I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over ‘my pale, in hopes to
have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself; these
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
bread especially) as much as possibl I could. '
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
acpount of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which it may well be supposed were not
a ew.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was not cast away upon that island with
out being driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our intended voyage,
and a great way, viz. some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary course of the trade of man-
kind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate place,
and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down my
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
vidence should thus completely ruin His creatures, and render t em so absolutely miserable, so
without help abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankful
for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts, and to reprove me;
and particularly one day, walking with my un in my hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive
upon the subject of my present condition, w en reason as it were expostulated with me the other
way, thus: Well, dyou are in a desolate condition, it is true; but ray remember, where are the
rest of you ? Di not you come eleven of you into the boat? W ere are the ten ? Why were
they not saved and you lost? Why were you singled out ? Is it better to be here or there ?
and then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the good that is in them,
and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my subsistence, and what would
have been my case if it had not happened, which was a hundred thousand to one, that the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
time to get all these things out of her: what would have been my case if I had been to have
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
saries to supply and procure them ? Particularly, said I aloud (though to m self), what
should I have done without a un, without ammunition, without any tools to ma e anything,
or to work with; without clot es, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering: and that now
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3r
ner, as to live without my gun when my ammunition was spent; so that I had a tolerable view
of subsisting, without any want, as long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how I
should provide for the accidents that might happen and for the time that was to come, even
not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even after my health or strength should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I
mean In powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising
to me w en it lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.
And now being aboutto enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps
as was never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in
its order. It was, b my account, the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above said, I
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
almost just over my head; for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9
degrees and 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my thoughts, that I should
lose my reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the
Sabbath days from the working days : but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
landed, viz. “I came on shore here on the 30th Sept. 1659.” Upon the sides of this square
post, I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
dar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. '
In the next place we are to observe, that among the many things which I brought out of
the ship in the several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down before ; as in
particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain’s, mate’s, gunner’s, and car-
penter’s keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, erspec-
tives, charts, and books of navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I might want
them or no: also, I found three very good bibles which came to me in my cargo from Eng-
land, and which I had packed up among my things; some Portuguese books also, and among
them two or three popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say something in its place; for I carried
both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
servant to me many years ; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, or any company that he
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I
observed before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall
show, that while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that was gone, I could not ;
for I could not make any ink, by any means that I could devise. ‘
And this put me in mind that Iwanted many things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed
together; and of these this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove
3133i eeilr'th; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without much
0 .
Thi giant of tools made every work I did go on heavily, and it was near a whole year before
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more
by far in bringing home; so that I s ent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home
one of these posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got a
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
eveii,I tiough I found it, yet it made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious
wor .
But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing I had
time enough to do it in, nor had I any other employment if that had been over, at least, that I
could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstance I was reduced to, and.
I drew up the state of my affairs in writing; not so much to leave them to any that were to
come after me, for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily
32 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set the good against the evil, that I
might have something to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated it very impartially
like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus :
EVIL.
I am cast upon a horrible desolate island,
void of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and separated, as it were,
from all the world, to be miserable.
I am divided from mankind, a solitaire,
one banished from human society.
I have not clothes to cover me.
I am without any defence or means to
resist any violence of man or beast.
GOOD.
But I am alive, and not drowned, as all my
ship’s company was.
But I am singled out too from all the ship’s
crew to be spared from death; and He that
miraculously saved me from death can de-
liver me from this condition.
But I am not starved and perishing on
a barren place, affording no sustenance.
But I am in a hot climate where if I
had clothes I could hardly wear them.
But I am cast on an island, where I see
no wild beasts to hurt me, as I saw on the
coast of Africa; and what it I had been
shipwrecked there?
But God wonderfull sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, t at I have otten out
so many necessary things as will eit er suppl
my wants, or enable me to supply mysef
even as long as I live.
I have no soul to speak to, or relieve me.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was scarce any condition in
the world so miserable, but there was something negative or something ositive to be thankful
for in it; and let this stand as a direction from the experience of t e most miserable of
T be Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robina-0/¢ Crusoe. 3 3
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and given over looking out
to sea, to see if I could s y a ship; I say, giving over these things, I began to apply myself
to accommodate my way of) living, and to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under the side of a rock, surrour’led
with a stron pale of posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a
kind of wal? up against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and after some time, I
think it was a year and a half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or
covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and into the cave which
T be Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robina-0/¢ Crusoe. 3 3
which as they lay in no order, so they took up all my place, I had no room to turn myself ; so
I set myself to enlarge my cave and works farther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy
rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it; and so when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right hand into the rock; and then turning
to the right again, worked quite out and made me a door to come out, on the outside of my pale
T be Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robina-0/¢ Crusoe. 3 3
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way to my tent and to my
store-house, but gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I found I most wanted,
as particularly a chair and a table, for without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts
' I had in the world; I could not write or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure
without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as reason is the substance and
original of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring every thing by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be in time master of every mechanic
art. I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time by labour, application, and
contrivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially if I
C
had had tools, however I made abundance of things, even without tools, and some with -
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made that way before,
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. t is true,
by this method I could make but one board out of a whole tree, but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal of‘ time and labour which it
took me to make a plank or board: but my time or labour was little worth, and so it was
as well employed one way as another.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
did out of the short pieces of boards which I brought on my raft from the ship: but when I
had wrought out some boards, as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a
half one over another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and in a word, to separate every thing at large in their places, that I might come
easily at them; I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things-
that would hang up.
So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary
things: and I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day’s employment; for, indeed, at
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of mind, and my journal would have been full of many dull things. For example, must
have said thus :—Sept. the 30th, after I got to shore, and had esca ed drowning, instead of
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
water which was gotten into'my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran about the
shore, wringing my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and
crying out, I was undone, undone; till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground
to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and got all that I could out
of her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and looking out to
sea in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail; please myself
with the hopes of it; and then, after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and
sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.
But havin gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled my household-
stuf f and ha itation, made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could,
I began to keep my journal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told
p11 these iréarticulars over again) as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, 1 was forced to
cave it o .
THE JOURNAL.
Sept. 30, 1659.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the
rest of the ship’s company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either that I should be devoured by wild beasts,
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of night I slept
in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained all night.
34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
tide, and was driven on shore again much nearer the island, whic as it was some comfort
on one hand, for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated,
I might get on board, and get some food or necessaries out of her for my relief; so, on the
other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who I imagined if we had all
stayed on board might have saved the ship, or at least that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have built
us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some other art of the world.
I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these thin s; but at ength, seeing the
ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could, an then swam on board; this
da also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.
rom the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely spent in making several
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
rafts. Muc rain also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems,
this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon it; but being in shoal water,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
Oct. 25. It rained all night an all day, with some gusts of wind, during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day in covering and securing the
goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them. _
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or ‘
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
double piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my goods to my new habita-
tion, though some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun, to see for some food, and
discover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home; which I after-
wards killed also, because it would not feed.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
large as I could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and
with them formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, which were very good food.
In the afternoon went to work to make me a table. _ _ _
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of gorn out with my gun, time of
sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out wit my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven o’clock, then ate what
I had to live on, and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive
hot, and then in the evening to work again: the working part of this day, and of the next,
were wholly employed in making my table, for I was_yet but a very sorry workman, though
time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog, and killed a wild eat, her skin pretty
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
them. Coming back by the sea-shore I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand;
but was surprised and almost frightened with two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at,
not well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time. _
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 3 5
not to my liking: nor was it long‘before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th
(for the 11th was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a chair, and‘with much ado‘ brought
it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me ;‘ and even in the making I pulled it in pieces
several times. Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for omitting my mark for them on
my post, I forgot which was which. _ _
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me2exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was
C
accompanied with terrible thunder and li htning, which frightened me dreadfully for fear of my
powder: as soon as it was over I resolve to separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
1V0v.1’1~, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little square chests or boxes, which
might hold about a pound, or two pounds, at most, of powder; and so putting the powder in,
I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one anot er as possible. On one of these three
days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I know not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to make room for my farther
conveniency. Note, three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel,
and a wheel-barrow or basket, so I desisted from my work, and began to consider how to supply
that want, and make me some tools: as for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heav ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely
necessary, that indeed I co d do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of one to make
I knew not.
to. 18. The next day in searching the woods I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which
in the Brazils they call the Iron Tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great labour and
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, made me a long while upon
this machine; for I worked it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade,
the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
u on it at bottom, it would not last me so long; however it served well enough for the uses
which I had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion,
or so long a making.
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
by any means, having no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker ware, at least
none et found out; and, as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but
that Ihad no notion of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no possible way
to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over;
and so for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod
which the labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers.
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the attempt which I made in vain to make a w eelbarrow, took me up no less than four days,
I mean always excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed; and very
seldom failed also bringing home something to eat.
Nov. ‘23. My other work having now stood still, because of my making these tools, when they
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, t at it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note, During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave spacious enough to accom-
modate me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my
lodging, I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the year it rained so hard
that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and large leaves of trees like a thatch.
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
had made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much
that in short it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under it I had
never wanted a grave-digger : upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do over again;
for I had the loose earth to carry out, and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling
to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got two shores or posts pitched
36 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
day; and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and
the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.
“H
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed shelves, and knocked up nails on the
posts to hang every thing up that could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried eve'gthing into the cave, and began to furnish m house, and set up
some pieces of boards, like a resser, to order my victuals upon; but boar s began to be very
scarce with me: also I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and pleasauter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so that I caught it, and led it home in a
string ; when I had it home I bound and splintered up its le , which was broke. N.B.—l
took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew well, an as strong as ever; but by
nursing it so lon it grew tame, and fed u on the little green at my door, and would not go
away : this was e first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze; so that there was no stirrin abroad, except in
the evening for food : this time I spent in putting all my things in order wit in doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and late with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening, going farther into the valleys, which lay towards the centre
of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and hard to come at;
however I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingl ,the next day, I went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but
I was mistaken, for ey all faced about upon the dog; and he knew his danger too well, for he
would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous of my being attacked by some-
body, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
NB. This wall being described before, I purposel omit what was said in the Journal; it is
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
24 ards in length, bein a half circle from one place in t e rock to another place about
eig t yards from it, the oor of the cave being in the centre behind it.
All this time I worked ve hard, the rains hindering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
it is scarcely credible what inexpressible labour everything was done with, especially the bringin
piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground, for I made them much bigger thanI
need to have done.
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
to it, I persuaded myself that if any people were to come on shore there, they would not per-
ceive anything like a habitation : and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter
upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game every day, when the rain admitted
me, and made fre uent discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advantage;
particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood pigeons, in a tree, but rather
as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
their nests, and got their young ones, which were very good meat.
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 37
was, for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped: I had a small rnnlet or two, as
I observed before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another
as to make them hold water, so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so that as soon as ever it was dark,
which was generally by seven o’clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adventure, but I had none of that now,
the only remedy I had, was, that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little
dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made
me a lamp, and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle. In the
middle of all my labours it happened, that rumma ’ng my things, I found a little bag, which,
38 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn had
been in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it was to put powder in,
when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the husks of corn out of
38 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I threw this stuf f away,
taking no notice of anything, and not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything
there; when about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of something green
shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I was
surprised and perfectly astonished, when after a little longer time I saw about ten or twelve
ears come out, which were perfect green barley of the same kind as our European, nay, as
our English barley. .
It is im ssible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this occasion;
I had hit erto acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I had very few notions of
religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me, otherwise
than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so much as inquiring into
the end of Providence in these things, or His order in governing events in the world; but
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely; and I be an to
suggest, that God had miraculously caused this grain to grow without any help of see sown,
and that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, and I began to bless
myself, that such a prodigy of nature should ha pen upon my account; and this was the
more strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some other
struggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it
grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my support, but not
doubting but that there was more in the place, I went all over that part of the island, where
I had been before, peeping in every corner and under every rock to see for more of it, but I
38 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
meat out in that place, and then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my religious
thankfulness to God’s providence began to abate too, upon discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen a providence as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence
as to me, that should order or appoint ten or twelve grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when
the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven: as also, that I
should throw it out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it
sprang up immediately; whereas if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their season, which was about
the end of June, and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all a ain, hopin in time to
38 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall
38 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least
not as it would have done : of which in its place. -
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved
with the same care, and whose use was of the same kind or to the same pu ose, viz. to make
me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, t ough I did that
also after some time. But to return to my journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall done; and the 14th of
April I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign in the outside of my habitation.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
up after me, and let it down on the inside: this was a com lete enclosure to me; for within
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
my wall.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
at once, and myself killed; the case was thus: As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my
tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful
surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden I found the earth come crumbling down from the
roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my head, and two of the posts I had set up
in the cave cracked in a fri htful manner: I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of
what was really the cause, on y thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it
had done before; and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
but plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook three times
at about eight minutes distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth; and a reat piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell own with such a terrible
noise as I never heard in all my life: I perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion
by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, or discoursed with any
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the roc
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hi1? falling upon my tent, and all my
household goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk my very soul within me a second
time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to take courage,
and yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive,
but sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do :
all this while I had not the least serious religious thought, nothing but the common, “Lord,
have mercy upon me :” and when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after
that the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane: the sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth, the shore was
covered with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm
it was; and this held about three hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was
stark calm, and began to rain very hard.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
it came into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earthquake,
the earth uake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again: with
this thong t my spirits began to revive, and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in
and sat down in mg tent, but the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it; and was forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy,
for fear it should fall on my head.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 39
like a sink to let water go out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had been in
my cave some time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be
more com osed; and now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went
to my litt e store, and took a small sup of rum, which, however, I did then, and always, very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so that I could not stir
abroad; but my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I had best do, concluding
that if the island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a cave,
but I must consider of building me some little hut in an open place, which I might surround
with a wall as I had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men: but con-
cluded if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the place where it stood, which was
just under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would cer-
tainly fall upon my tent: and I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in
contriving where and how _to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me that I never sle t in quiet: and yet the
apprehension of lym abroad, without any fence, was almost equa to it; but still, when I
looked about and sawiow everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how
safe from danger, it made me very 1oth to remove.
In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do
this, and that I must be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed a camp
for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it; so with this resolution I composed myself
for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles
40 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
40 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to put this resolve in execution,
but I was at a great loss about my tools; I had three large axes and abundance of hatchets
40 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and thou h I had agrindstone, I
could not turn it and grind my tools too: this cost me as much thoug t as a statesman would
have bestowed upon a rand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At
length I contrived a w eel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty. Note, I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to take
notice how it was done, though since, I have observed it is very common there; besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week’s work to bring it
to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools, my machine for
turnin my grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great while, now I took a survey of it,
and reduced myself to one biscuit cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In t e morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lie
on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When I came to it, I found a
small barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the
late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of
the water than it used to do: I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found
it was a barrel of gun owder, but it had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone; however, I ro ed it farther on shore for the present, and went on upon the sands as
near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed: the forecastle which lay before
buried in sand, was heaved up at least six foot; and the stern, which was broken to pieces
and parted from the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was
tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so high on that side
next her stern, that whereas there was a great place of water before, so that I could not come
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up to her
40 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
by the earthquake: and as b this violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so
many things came daily on s ore, which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my habitation; and I busied
myself mightily that day especially, in searching whether I could make any way into the ship;
but I found nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand: however, as I had learnt not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull
eve hing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding, that everything I could get from her
won d be of some use or other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, which I thought held
some of the upper part or uarter-deck together; and when I had cut it through, I cleared away
the sand as well as I co (1 from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to ive over for that time.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
my sport; when just going to leave o6', I caught a youn dolphin. I had made a on
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
planks off from the decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-
work; worked very hard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to work, but found the weight of
the wreck had broken itself down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the ship seemed
to lie loose : and the inside of the hole lay so open, that I could see into it, but almost full of
water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now
quite clear of the water or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on shore also
with the tide: I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the body of the wreck, and
felt several casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not break them up; I felt also
the roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, ll, 12, 13, 14-. Went every day to the wreck, and got a great many pieces of
timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by
placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and
a half in the water, I could not make anyblow to drive the hatchet.
lllay 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more broken by the force
of the water: but I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented
me going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great distance, near two miles
of f me, but resolved to see what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, and with hard labour I loosened
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
two of the seamen’s chests, but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day
but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and
sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I had got timber, and
plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how; and also, 1 got at
several times, and in several ieces, near 100 weight of the sheet-lead. _
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 41
I had seen, which it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity, for
had I happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have had hundreds of them
every day, as I found afterwards, but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
to me at that time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had no
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at this time the rain felt cold,
and I was something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my head and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death with the apprehensions of my sad condition,
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very had again, cold and shivering, and then a violent head-ache.
June 24. Much better.
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
after it.~
June ‘.26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun but found myself very weak,
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that Ilay a-bed all day, and neither ate or drank. I
was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to get myself
any water to drink: prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and, when I was not, I was
so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, “ Lord, look upon me; Lord
pity me; Lord, have mercy upon me.” I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours till
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
m self much refreshed, but weak and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in my
wlilole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep I had this terrible dream :—
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the
storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
that I could but ’ust bear to look towards him. His countenance was most inexpressibly
dreadful; impossib e for words to describe. When he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I
thought the earth trembled just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forward towards me, with a long
spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some distance,
he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is im ossible to express the terror of it; all
that I can say I understood was this, “ Seeing all these t ings have not brought thee to repen-
tance, now thou shalt die;” at which words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his
hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be able to describe the
horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean that, even while it was a dream, I even
dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awoke and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received by the good instruction of my father
was then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of sea-faring wickedness, and a
constant conversation with nothing but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last
degree. I do not remember that I had in all that time one thought that so much as tended either
42 The Lzfe and‘Adwntzzres of Robinson Crusoe.
certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed
me, and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common
sailors can be supposed to be, not having the least sense either of the fear of God in danger,
or of thankfulness to God in deliverances.
In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more casil believed when
I shall add that, through all the variety of miseries that had to this day befa len me, I never
had so much as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for
my sin, my rebellious behaviour against my father, or m present sins, which were great; or so
much as a punishment for the general course of my wic ed life. When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what would
become of me; or one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel saavges:
but I was merely thoughtless of a God, or a Providence; acted like a mere brute, from the prin-
ciples of Nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered, and taken up at sea b the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt
justly and honourably with, as well as charitab , I had not the least thankfulness on my
thoughts: when again I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I
was as far from remorse, or looking on it as a jud ment; I only said to myself often, that I was
an unfortunate dog, and born to be always misera 1e.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which, had the
grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it begun,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
singled me out to be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed; or an inquiry why Providence
had been thus merciful to me; even just the same common sort of jo which seamen generally
have, after they have got safe on shore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next bowl
of unch, and forget, almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my life was like it.
ven when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of my condition; how I
was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or
prospect of redemption; as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply‘, and was far enough from being
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
were thoughts which ve seldom entered into my head.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
upon me, and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had something
miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that part of thought was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore of f also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more imme-
diately directing to the invisible power, which alone directs such things ; yet no sooner was the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
than if I had been in the most prosperous condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came to
place itself before me; when my s irits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper,
and nature was exhausted with t e violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so long,
began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my past life, in which I had so evidently,
by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of God to ay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventares of Robinson Crusac. 43
violence, as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words
from me, like praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with
desires, or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress : my thoughts wer’e
confused, the convictions great upon m mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable
condition, raised vapours mto my hea with the mere apprehensions; and, in these hurries of
my soul, I know not what my tongue might express. But it was rather exclamation; such as,
" Lord! what a miserable creature am I ! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of
help, and what will become of me ? ” Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no
more for a good while.
In this interval the good advice of my father came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned in the beginning of this story; viz. that if I did take this foolish step,
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. Now, said I aloud, my dear
father’s words are come to pass: God’s justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or
hear me; Irejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture or
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I would neither see it m self, nor
learn to know the blessing of it from my parents; I left them to mourn over my olly, and
now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it; I refused their help and assistance, who
would have lifted me into the world, and would have made everything easy to me; and now
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
no help, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried out, “ Lord, be my help, for am in great distress !"
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
to my journal.
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
off, I got up; an though the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered,
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
large square case bottle with water, and set it u n my table, in reach of my bed; and to take
off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it,
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
but could eat very ittle. I walked about, but was ve weak, and, withal, very sad and heavy-
hearted under a sense of my miserable condition, drea ing the return of my distemper the next
day: at night I made m supper of three of the turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
44 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsan Crusoe.
to, even, as I could remember, in to whole life. .
After I had eaten I tried to wel ; but found myself so weak, that I could hardly carry the
gun (for I never went out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As
I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me :
What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is it produced? And
what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal; whence are we ?
Sure we are all made by some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky;
and who is that?
Then it followed most naturally: it is God that has made it all. Well, but then it came on
strangely; if God has made all these things, He guides and governs them all, and all things
that concern them; for the Being that could make all things, must certainly have power to
guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works, either without His knowledge or
appointment. '
And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I am here, and am in this
dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has appointed all
this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these conclusions; and therefore it
rested upon me with the greater force, that it must needs be, that God had appointed all this
to befall me; that I was brought to this miserable circumstance by His direction, He having
the sole power, not of me only, but of everything that happened in the world. Immediately
it followed,—
Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus used ?
My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed; and methought
it spoke to me, like a voice: Wretch ! dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a
dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast
of Africa? or, drowned HERE, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, What
have I done ?
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
answer to myself ; but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to in retreat, and went up over
my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my thoughts were 5 l disturbed, and I had no
inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and 11 hted my am , for it began to be
dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return of my gistemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco, for almost all
distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured,
and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt! for in this chest I found a cure both for soul and body !
I opened the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the tobacco; and as the few books I had
saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and which, to this
time, I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into ; I say I took it out, and
brou ht both that and the tobacco with me to the table.
W at use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distem er, or whether it was good for
it or no: but I tried several experiments with it, as if I reso ved it should hit one way or
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
to it; then I took some, and steepe it an hour or two in some rum, nd resolved to take a
dose of it when I lay down; and lastl , I burnt some upon a pan of oals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it, as long as could bear it, as well for the heat as the virtue of it, and
I held almost to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head was
too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only having o ned
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.”
The words were very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my thoughts at the
time of reading them, though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being delivered,
the word had no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that I began to sa as the children of Isreal did when they were pro-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
Himself deliver me from this place? And as it was not for many years that any hope
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but, however, the words made a
very great impression u on me, and mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had, as I sai , dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep; so I left my lamp
burnin in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and went to bed: but before
I lay own, I did what I never had done in all my life; I kneeled down and prayed to God
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 45
but I fell into a sound sleep, and woke no more, till by the sun it must necessarily be near
three o’clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour I am partly of the opinion, that
I slept all the next day and night, and till almost three the da after; for otherwise I knew not
how I should lose a day out of my reckoning) in the days ofy the week, as it appeared some
years after I had done; for if I had lost it y crossing and recrossing the line, I should have
lost more than one day: but certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that however one way or other, when I woke I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger than I was the day before, and
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
much altered for the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with my gun, but did not care to
travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought them
home, but was not very forward to eat them, so I ate some more of the turtle’s eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me good the
day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; however, I was not so well the next
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
doubled the quantity which I drank.
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
weeks after. While I was thus gathering stren th, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon the
scripture, “ I will deliver thee;” and the impossi ility of my deliverance lay much upon m
mind, in bar of my ever expectin it, but as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
disregarded the deliverance I had received, and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such
uestions as these :—Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness? from
the most distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me ? And what
notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part? God had delivered me, but 1 had not
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
and how could I expect greater deliverance ?
This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks
aloud for my recovery‘from my sickness.
July 4.‘. In the morning I took the Bible, and, beginning at the New Testament, I began
seriously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every morning and every night,
not tying myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and sin-
cerely affected with the wickedness of my past life; the impression of my dream revived, and
the words, “All these thin s have not rought thee to repentance,” ran seriously in my
thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially the very day that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words: “He is exalted a
Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.” I threw down the Book, and
with my heart as well as m hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out
aloud, “Jesus, Thou Son of avid, Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance!"
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
my life; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the Word of God; and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hope that God would hear me.
' Now I began to construe the words mentioned above—“ Call on Me, and Iwill deliver thee ”—
in a different sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything
being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was in; for thou h I was
indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in t e worst
sense in the world; but now I learned to take it in another sense. Now I looked back upon
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my
solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it;
it was all of no consideration in comparison of this : and I add this part here to hint to who-
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
46 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way of living, yet much
easier to my mind; and my thoughts being directed by a constant reading the Scripture, and
47
praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a reat deal of comfort within, which till
now I knew nothing of; also, as my health and strength returned, I bestirred myself to furnish
myself with everythin that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I could.
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to w at weakness was reduced.
The application which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before; neither can I recommend it to any one to practise by this experiment; and though
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that being abroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my health that could be, especially in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in a dry season was nearly always
accompanied with such storms, so I found this rain was much more dangerous than the rain
which fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months; all possibility of deliverance from
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
had ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my
mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular survey of the island itself; I
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
little brook of running water, and very fresh and good; but, this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not enough to run in any stream, so as it
could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and
covered with grass; and on the risipg parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the water,
as it might be supposed, never ove owed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing
to a great and very strong stalk. There were divers other plants, which I had no notion of, or
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that climate make their bread of,
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
several sugar-canes, but wild and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented m self with
these discoveries for this time, and came back musing with myself what course I mig t take to
know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover, but could
bring it to no conclusion ; for, in short, I had made so little observation while I was in the
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and, after going something farther
than I had done the day before, I found the brook and the savannas began to cease, and the
country became more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits, and particularly
I found melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the vines had
‘spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were-just now in their prime, very ripe
and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was
warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them, remembering that, when I was ashore in
Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
was to cure or dry them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which
I tho ht would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes
’ ht had.
milgs cut all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation, which, by the way, was
T /ze Lg’fe and A dz/entures of Robinson Crusoe.
and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery,
travelling nearly four miles, as I mi ht judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due
north, with a ridge of hills on the sout and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend to the
west; and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I descended a little on the side of that de icious valle , surveyin it with a secret kind of
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of ossession; and if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord o a manor in England. I
saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon and citron trees, but all wild, and few
bearing any fruit—at least not then. However, the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made
it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and cart home; and resolved to lay up a store,
as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish mysel for the wet season, which I knew was
ap roaching.
n order to do this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in
another lace, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few of
each witli me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or
what I could make, to carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came home (so I must now call my
tent and my cave); but, before I got thither, the grapes were s oiled; the richness of the fruit
and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised t em, they were good for little or
nothing. As to the limes, they were good, but I could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made two small bags to bring home my
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
when I gathered them, I found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces,and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts which had done this; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up in hea s, and no carrying them away in a
sack, but that one way they would be destroyed, and the ot er way they woul be crushed with
their own weight, I took another course; for I gathered alarge quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the outer branches of the trees, that they might cure and day in the sun; and as for
the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand un er.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great pleasure on the fruitfulness
of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms on that side of the
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
by far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of removin my
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where I now was situated, if possib e, in
that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceedingly fond of it for some time, the plea-
santness of the )lace tempting me; but when I came to a nearer view of it, and to consider that
I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that something might happen to my
advantage, and that the same ill-fate that brought me hither might bring some other unhappy
wretches to the same place; and though it was scarcely probable that any such thing would
ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods,in the centre of the island, was to
antici ate my bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable, but impossible, and
that t erefore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured of this place that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved as above,
not to remove, yet I built a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong
48 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
wood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it
with a ladder, as before; so that I fancicl now I had my country house anl my sea-coast
house : and this work took me up to the beginning of August.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
self. The third of August I ound the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed
were excellent good raisins of the sun : so I began to take them down from the trees, and it was
very happy that I did so, for the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I had lost
the best part of my winter food, for I had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them home to my cave, than it began to rain;
and from thence, which was the fourteenth of August, it rained more or less every day till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much s rised with the increase of my family. I had been concerned
for the loss of one of my catsfvliIio ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead, and I
heard no more tale or tidings of her till, to my astonishment, she came home about the end of
August with three kittens! This was the more strange to me, because, though I had killed a
wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was uite a different kind from our
European cats ; yet the oung cats were the same kind of house- reed like the old one; and both
my cats being females, thought it very strange: but from these three cats I afterwards came
to be so pestered with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts, and to
drive them from my house as much as ossible.
From the fourteenth of August to t e twenty-sixth, incessant rain, so that I could not stir,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
food; but, venturin out twice, I one day killed a goat; and the last day, which was the twenty-
sixth, found a very arge tortoise, which was a treat to me ; and my food was regulated thus: I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two
or three of the turtle’s eggs for supper.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
enlar ’ng my cave, and, by degrees, worked it on towards one side till I came to the outside of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in
and out this way: but I was not perfectly easy at lyin so open, for, as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure, whereas now I t ought I lay exposed; and yet I could
not perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had seen upon
the island being a goat.
S tember the thirtieth. I was now come to the uuha py anniversary of my landing- I cast
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exercise, prostrating myself on
the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging His
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ;
and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even to the going down of the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
began it.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 49
my mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch
than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were; but
now, having cast up the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath, though I found at the end of my
account I had lost a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this my ink be an to fail me, and so I contented myself to use it more spar-
ingly, and to write down only t e most remarkable events of my life, without continuing a daily
memorandum of other things,
D
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular to me, and I learned to
divide them so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bou ht all my experience before I
had it; and this I am going to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that
I made at all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few earslof barley and rice which I had
so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves,K and believe there were about
thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it
after the rains, the sun being in its southern position going from me. -
Accordingly I dug up apiece of ground, as well as I could, with my'woodep spade, and,‘
dividing it into two arts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of the "seeds, leaving about a handful of each. It was a
great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to anything; for the dry months following, the earth having had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its glrowth, and never came up at all, till the wet season had
come again, and then it grew as if it ad been newly sown.
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
sought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dn up a piece of ground
near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox; and this, having the rainy months of March and A ril to water it, sprung up very
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having part of t e seed left only, and not daring
to sow all that I had yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting
to above half a peek of each kind.
But by this experience I was made master of my business, and knew exactly when the
proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two seed-times and two harvests every
year.
‘Vhile this corn was growing, I made a little discovery, which was of use to me afterwards.
As soon as the rains were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about the month
of November, I made a visit 11 the country to my bower, where, though I had not been
some months, yet I found all things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that I
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
that grew thereabouts were all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
that these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I could, and it is
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make a hedge like this in a semicircle
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
50 1771e Lzfe and Advmtures 0f ROdinson Crusac.
shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided, not into summer
and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally
thus :—
Half February, ’
Marc , Rainy, the sun being then on or near the equinox.
Half April,
Half April,
May,
Dry, the sun being then to the north of the line.
y 7
Half August,
I? if’ T"
Half August,
September} Rainy, the sun being then come back.
Half October,
Half October,
November,
December, Dry, the sun being then to the south of the line.
January,
Half February,
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but
this was the general observation I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill-con-
sequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provision beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors as much as possible during the
wet months.
In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also to the time), for I found
great occasion of many things which I had no way to furnish myself with, but by hard labour
and constant application: particularly I tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all
the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advanta e to me now, that, when I was a ho , I used to take great delight
in standing at a basket-ma’er’s in the town where m father ived, to see them make their
wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very o cious to help, and a great observer of
the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had by this means
so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind that the twigs of that tree, from whence I cut my stakes that grew, might
possibly be as tough as the sallows and willows and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as I called it, and, cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came
the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there
was a great plenty of them : these I set up to dry within my circle or hedges ; and when they
T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5!
myself in making (as well as I could) a great man baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry
T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5!
yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took care
never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially I made
strong deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.
T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5!
see, if possible, how to supply two wants. Iyhad no vessels to hold anything that was liquid,
except two rundlets, which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the
common size, and others which were case-bottles square, for the holdin of waters, spirits, &c.
I had not so much as a pot to boil anything in, except a great kettle w ’ch I saved out of the
ship, and which was too big for such uses as I desired for it, viz., to make broth, and stew a
bit of meat by itself. The second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was
impossible for me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for that too at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles, and in this wicker-work,
all the summer or dry season, when another business took me up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole island, and that I had
travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the
sea-shore on that side: so, taking my gun and hatchet and my dog, and a larger quantity
of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch of raisins in m
pouch for my store, I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower stoo ,
as above, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly
descried land—whether an island or continent I2could not tell—but it lay very hig , extend-
n
ing from the West to the W.S.W. at a very great distance. By my guess it could not be less
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than that I knew it must
be part of America, and, as I concluded b all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions, and perhaps was all inhabite by savages, where, if I should have landed, I had
been in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions
of Providence, which I began now to own, and to believe, ordered everything for the best. I say
I uieted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
esides, after some ause upon this affair, I considered that, if this land was the Spanish
coast, I should certain y, one time or other, see some vessels ass or rcpass one way or other;
but if not, then it was the savage coast between the Spanis country and Brazil, which are
indeed the worst of sava es; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder
and devour all the human dies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward. I found that side of the island
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
have caught one, if possible, to ave kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I
did, after some pains taken, catch a youn parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and,
having recovered it, I brought it home, at it was some years before I could make him
speak. However, at last I taught him to call me by my name, very familiarly; but the
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found, in the low grounds, hares, as I
thought them to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met
with ; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to be
venturous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was ver good too, especially these
three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise, which, adde to my grapes, Leadenhall
market could not have furnished a better table than I, in proportion to the company; and,
thou h my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness that I was
not driven to any extremities for food, but rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outri ht in a da , or thereabouts; but I
took so many turns and returns, to see what discoveries could ma 'e, that I came weary
enough to t e place where I resolved to sit down for all night, and then either reposed
myse f in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the round, either
from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without wa ing me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I had taken up my lot on
the worst side of the island; for here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles,
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
number of fowls of many kinds, some of which I had not seen before, and many of them very
good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very s aring of my powder and shot, and
,therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, whic I could better feed on ; and though
there were many more goats here than on the other side of the island, yet it was with much more
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
sooner than when I was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
all the while I was here, to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home. However, I travelled
along the shore of the sea towards the east, I suppose about twelve miles, and then, setting up a
rent pole upon the shore for a mark, I conclude I would go home again, and the next journey
Itook should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling, and so round, till I came
to my post again, of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could easily keep all the island
52 The Lg'fe and Ads/altures of Robinson Crusoe.
but I found myself mistaken, for, being come about two or three miles, I found myself descended
into a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with woods, that
I could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I
knew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day.
It happened, to my further misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for three or four days,
while I was in this valley, and, not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncom-
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
same way I went, and then by easy 'ourneys I turned homeward, the weather being exceedingly
hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatc et, and other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it; and I, running in to take
hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I
could, for I had often been musing whether it might not be possible to et a kid or two, and so
raise a breed of tame goats which might sup ly me when my powder and shot should be spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, an with a string which I made of some rope-yarn,
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
bower, and there I enclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot ex ress what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch, and lie down in
my hammock- ed. This little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had been so
unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me,
compared to that; and it rendered eve thin about me so comfortable that I resolved I would
never go a great wa from it again, whi c it s ould be m lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself ere a week, to rest and regale myse f after my long journey, during which
most of the time was taken up in the weight affair of makin a cage for my Poll, who
began now to be a mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor kid, which I had pent in within my little circle, and resolved to go and fetch
it home, and give it some food. Accordin 1y I went, and found it where I left it ; for indeed it
could not get out, but was almost starved or want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees and
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
before to lead it away, but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one of my domestics also, and would never
leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I kept the 30th of September in
the same solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island, having
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful
mercies which my solitary condition was attended with, and without which it might have been
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
discover to me, even that it was possible I might be more happy in this solitar condition than
I should have been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the worl : that He could
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
presence, and the communications of His grace to m soul, supporting, comforting, and
encouraging me to depend upon His providence here, and ope for His eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the life I now led was, with
all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part
of my days; and now, having changed both my sorrows and my joys, my ver desires altered,
my affections changed their gust, and my delights were perfectly new from w at they-were at
T /1e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 3
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the country, the anguish of
my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would
die Within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a
prisoner, locked up with the eternal bolts and bars of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
without redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this would break out
upon me like a storm, and made me wring my hands and weep like a child. Sometimes it
would take me in the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh and look
upon the ground for an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me; for if I could
burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate. _
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts ; I daily read the Word of God, and
applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, I opened the
Bible upon these words: “ I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee!” Immediately it
occurred that these words were to me; why else should they be directed in such a manner, just at
the moment when I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God and man ? Well,
then, said I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill-conse uence can it be, or what matters it,
thou h the world should all forsake me —seeing, on the ot er hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no comparison in the loss?
From this moment I be an to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to be more
happy in this forsakem'solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever have been in any
other particular state in the world; and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God for
brin ing me to this place.
I now not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. How canst thou be such an hypocrite (said I, even audibly), to pretend to be
thankful for a condition which, however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou
wouldest rather pray heartily to be delivered from i’ So I stopped there; but though I could
not say I thanked God for being there, yet I sincerely gave t anks to God for opening my
54 T11: Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson C rm‘oe.
my wickedness and repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me
blessed God for directing my friend in England, without any order of mine, to pack it up among
my goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and though I have not given
54 T11: Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson C rm‘oe.
general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle, having regularly divided my time
54 T11: Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson C rm‘oe.
and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day.
Secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three hours every
mornin when it did not rain. Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what
I had killed or caught for my supply. These took up great part of the day. Also it is to be
considered that, in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat
was too great to stir out; so that about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be
supposed to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
wor ing, and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the exceeding lahoriousness of
my work; the many hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything
that I did took up out of my time: for example, I was full two-and-forty da s making a board
for a long shelf which I wanted in my cave, whereas two sawyers, with their tools and saw-
pit, would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this : It was to be a large tree which was to be cut down, because my board
was to be a broad one. The tree I was three days a cuttin down, and two more cutting off the
boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. Wit inexpressible hacking and hewing,
I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
54 T11: Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson C rm‘oe.
side downward, cut the other side till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands 'in uch a piece of work ;
but labour and patience carried me through that and many other things. I only observe this
in particular to show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work, viz.,
that what might be a little to be done with help and tools was a vast labour, and required a
prodigious time to do alone and by hand. -
But,- notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went through many things, and, indeed,
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
0 ows.
I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my cro of barley and rice.
The ground I had manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as observed my seed of
each was not above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season; but now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it.
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it could get no time
to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it with a hedge, which I did with
a great deal of toil; and the more because it required a great deal of speed, the creatures daily
spoiling m corn. However, as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally
well fence in about three weeks’ time; and, shooting some of the creatures in the da time, I
set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he won d stand
and bark all night long: so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew
very stron an well, and began to ripen apace.
But as t e beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade so the birds were as like
to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for oing along by the place to see how it throve, I
saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of I now not ow many sorts, which stood as it were
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
with me). I had no sooner shot than there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a few days, they would devour all my hopes,
that I should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what to do I could not tell.
However, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day.
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
spoiled a good deal of it, but that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so great,
but the remainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then, coming away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon
all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be
so ; for as I walked off, as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped
down one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked that I could not have patience to
stay till more came on, knowing that every grain that they ate now was, as it might be said,
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
three of them. This was what I wished for; so I took them up and served t em as we serve
notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them in chains for a terror to others. It is im-
possible to imagine almost that this should have such an effeot as it had, for the fowls would
not only not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I could
never see a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of December, which was
our second harvest of the year, I reaped my com.
I was sadly ut to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down, and all I could do was to make
one as well as Icould, out of one of the broad-swords or cntlasses which I saved among the arms
TIze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 5 5
in short, I rea ed it my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a reat
basket which I) had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands: and at the end of a my
harvesting I found that, out of my half-peck of seed, I had near two bushels of rice, and above
two bushels and a half of barley—that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that
time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I foresaw that, in time, it would
please God to supply me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew
how to grind or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into
meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant
supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the next
season, and in the meantime to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread. It is a little wonderful, and what
I believe few people have thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little things
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
rea .
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to be my daily discouragement,
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no lough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered
by making a woo en spade, as I observed before, but this did my work in but a wooden manner;
and though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore
out the sooner, but made my work the harder, and made it be performed much worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to work it out with patience, and bear with
the badness of the performance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to
go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may
be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed already how many things I wanted to fence
it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save it.
‘Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread,
and an oven to bake it in; and all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too. But all this, as I said, made
everything laborious and tedious to me, but that there was no help for; neither was my time
so much loss to me, because I had divided it. A certain part of it was every day appointed to
these works ; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantit
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself, wholly by labour and invention, to furnis
myself with utensils pro er for the performing all the operations necessary for the making
the corn, when I had it, t for my use.
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
‘ground. Before I did this, I had a week’s work at least to make a s ade, which, when it was
done, was a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required doub e labour to work with it.
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of which were all cut oft that wood which I had set before, which I knew would grow; so that
in one year’s time I knew I should have a quick or living hedge that would want but little
repair. This work was not so little as to take me up less than three months, because great part
of that time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within door—that is, when it rained, and I could not go out—I found employment on the
following occasion, always observin that, all the while I was at work, I diverted myself with
talking to my parrot, and teaching im to speak; and I quickly learnt him to know his own
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to
my work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows: viz., I had
long studied, by some means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at them. However, considering the heat of the
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
as might, being dried by the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to beariiandling, an to
hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could,
56 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how many awkward wa s I
took to raise this paste—what odd, mis-shapen, ugly things I made—how many of them fel in,
\
and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight—how many
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily, and how many fell to
pieces wit only removing, as well before as after they were dried, and, in a word, how, after
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
could not make above two large earthen ugly things—I cannot call them jars—in about two
months’ labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and
set them down again in two greater wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them that
they might not break ; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare,
I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw; and these two pots, being to stand always dry, I
thought would hold m dry corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarrie so much in my design for large pots, yet I made several smaller things
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
hand turned to, and the heat of the sun aked them strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to et an earthen pot to hold what was
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
red as a tile. I was agreeably su rised to see it, and said to myself that certainly they might
be made to burn whole if they won d burn broken.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some
lead to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one upon
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all: when saw them clear
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
not crack, did melt or run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay, melted by the vio-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
gradually, till the pots began to abate of the re colour; and watching them all ni ht, r. at I
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
handsome pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired; and one of
them perfect y glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthenware for my use;
but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may
suppose, when I had no way of making them, but as the children make dirt-pies, or as a woman
would make pies that never learnt to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when I found I had made an
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, thou h I wanted
oatmeal and several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would have ad it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some corn in; for, as to the
mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this want I was at a great loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
of a sandy, crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood, which I found
indeed much easier ; and, getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 57
made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a
great heavy pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by
against I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my
corn or meal to make my bread.
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
and the husk, without which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. rl.‘his was a most
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
here Iwas at a full stop for many months, nor did I really know what to do. Linen I had none
left but what was mere rags; I had goat’s hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it,
and, had I known how, here were no tools to work it with. All the remed that I found for
this was that at last I did remember I had, among the seamen’s clothes w ich were saved out
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made three
small sieves, but ro er enough for the work: and thus I made shift for some years; how I
did afterwards I s a1 show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should make bread when
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But for an oven I was indeed in great
pain. At length I found out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep; that is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
of my own making and burning also; but I should not call them square.
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
upon this hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till the hearth was very
hot; then, sweepin away all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, and, whelming down the
earthen pot upon t em, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to kee in and add to
the heat; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my bar ey-loaves, and
became in a little time a mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes
of the rice, and puddings; indeed, I made no pics, neither had I anything to put into them,
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
It need not be won ered at, if all these things took me up most part of the third year of my
abode here ; for it'is to be observed, that in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest
and husbandry to mana e: for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I
could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
And now indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to build my barns bigger. I
wanted a lace to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had.
of the bar ey about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more; insomuch that I now
resolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great while; also I
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
year.
Upon the whole I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much more than I
could consume in a year, so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed
the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you ma be sure my thoughts ran many times upon
the prospect of land which I had seen from the other side of the island; and I was not without
secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying that seeing the main land, and in an inhabited
58 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a condition, and how I
might fall into the hands of savages, and perha s such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa : that i‘ I once came into their power, I should run
a hazard more than a thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
I
heard that the people of the Caribean coasts were cannibals, or mTan-eaters, and I knew by the
latitude that I could not be far off from that shore : that, suppose they were not canuibals, yet
they might kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served, even
when they had been ten or twenty together; much more I that was but one, and could make
little or no defence. All these things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and I
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
head ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the shonlder-of-mutton sail, with
which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa, but this was in vain. Then I
thought I would go and look on our ship’s boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
upwards, a inst the high ridge of a beachy rough.sand, but no water about her as before.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
have done well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough, but
I might have easily foreseen that I could no more tu rn her and set her upright upon her bottom,
than I could remove the island. However I went to the wood, and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I could do, suggesting to myself, that if I could
but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and she would be a
very good boat, and I might go to sea in her ver easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this iece of fruit ess toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
away the sand to undermine it; and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to t rust
and guide it right in the fall. _
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under it, much less to
move it forwards towards the water; so I was forced to give it over: and yet, though I gave
over hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over for the main increased, rather than decreased,
as the means for it seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make myself a canoe or
periagua, such as the natives of those climates make, even without tools, or as I might say,
without hands, viz. of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought ossible, but easy;
and pleased myself extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with my avin much more
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering t e particular
inconveniences which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands to move it into
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
quences of want of tools could be to them ; for what was it to me, that when I had chosen avast
tree in the woods, I might with great trouble cut it down, if, after I might be able with my
tools to hew and dub the outside into a proper shape of a boat, and burn or out out the inside
to make it hollow, so to make a boat of it; if, after all this, I must leave it just there where I
found it, and was not able to launch it into the water ?
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
circumstances, while I was making my boat, but I should have immediately thought how I
should get it into the sea; but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it,
that I never once considered how I should get it off the land; and it was really in its own
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did, who had any of his
senses awake. I pleased myself with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
I put a stop to my own in niries into it by this foolish answer which I gave myself; “ Let me
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work
I went, and felled a cedar tree; I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 59
the stum , and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
felled this tree; I was twenty days hackin . and hewing at it at the bottom; I was fourteen
more gettin the branches and limbs and t e vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked
and hewed t rough with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labour; after this it cost me a
month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to clear the
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour; till I had brought it to be a very hand-
some periagua, and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and, consequently, big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with it: the boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life; many
a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, for there remained nothing but to get it into the
water; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I should have begun the
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be erformed, that ever was undertaken.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into
the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious
deal of pains; but who grudge ains that have their deliverance in view ? But when this was
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the
water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began
this work, and when I began to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, how
broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the number of hands I had, being none
but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I should have gone through with
it ; for the shore la high, so that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep;
so at length, thong with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly of beginning a work
befloire we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
wit it.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
with the same devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever before; for by a constant stud , and
serious application of the word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a di erent
knowledge from what I had before: I entertained different notions of things; I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote; which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and
indeed no desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever like to
have; so I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had
lived in, but was come out of it; and well I might say, as father Abraham to Dives, “ Between
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
' had all I was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I pleased, I might
call myself king or emperor over the whole country which I had possession of: there were no
rivals : I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me; I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it ; so I let as little grow as I thought enough
for my occasion: I had tortoises, or turtles enough; but now and then one was as much as I
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
' t.
But all I could make use of, was all that was valuable : I had enough to eat, and to supply
60 T 11o Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
must eat it, or the vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled: the trees
that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more use of them than for
fuel; and that I had no occasion for, but to dress my food.
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
the good things of this world are no farther good to us than as they are for our use: and that
whatever we may heap up indeed to give to others, we enjo as much as we can use, and no
more. The most covetous griping miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
do with. I had no room for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they were
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
well old as s’ ver, about thirty-six pounds sterling; alas ! there the nasty, sorry, useless
stuff _ay ; I had no manner of business for it; and 1 often thought with myself, that I would
have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay,
I would have given it all for six-penny worth of turnip and carrot seed out of En land, or for
a handful of as and beans, and a bottle of ink : as it was, I had not the least advantage by
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
cave in the wet season; and if I had ad the drawer full of diamon s, it had been the same
case ; and they had been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
easier to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my meat with thankfulness,
and admired the hand of God’s providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilderness.
I learned to look more upon the bright side of m condition, and less upon the dark side; and
to consider what I en’oyed, rather than what wanted; and this gave me sometimes such
secret comforts, that cannot express them; and which I take notice of here, to put those
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them,
because they see and covet something that He has not given them: all our discontents about
what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have.
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
fall into such distress as mine was; and this was, to com are my present condition with
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore, w ere
not only could come at her, but could bring what I got out of her to the shore for my relief
and comfort; without which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder
and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may sa whole days, in representing to myself in the most lively
colours how I must have acted, ' I had got nothing out of the ship; how I could not have
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
savage: that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I had no way to slay or open
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
teeth, and) pull it with my claws, like a beast.
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
thankful for my present condition, with all its hards ips and misfortunes: and this part also
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
The Lzfe and Adi/871111783 of Robinson Crusoe. 61
was, comparing my present condition with what I had deserved, and had there ore reason to
expect from the hand of Providence; I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God: I had been well instructed by my father and mother; neither had
they been wanting to me in their early endeavours, to infuse a religious awe of God into my
mind, a sense of my duty, and of what the nature and end of my being required of me. But,
alas ! falling early into the seafaring life, which of all the lives is the most destitute of the fear
of God, though His terrors are always before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life,
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained, was
laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened despising of dangers, and the views of
death, which grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to
converse with anything but what was like myself, or to hear anything of what was good, or
tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the least sense of what I was, or was to be,
that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed, such as my escape from Sallee, my being taken up
by the Portuguese master of the ship, my being lanted so well in Brazil, my receiving the
cargo from England, and the like, I never once ad the words “Thank God,” so much as on
my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress, had I so much thought as to pray to
Him; nor so much as to say, “Lord, have mercy upon me! ” No, nor to mention the name
of God, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
62 ' T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
on the account of my wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked about me, and con-
sidered what particular providences had attended me, since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bountifully with me; had not only punished me less than my iniquity
deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me; this gave me great hopes that my repentance
was accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store for me.
62 ' T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the present disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condi-
tion; and that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the duo
unishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies, which I had ,no reason to have expected
in that place; that I on ht never more to repme at my condition, but to rejoice, and to give
daily thanks for that daily bread which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have brought:
that I ought to consider I had been fed even by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding
Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly have named aplace
in the uninhabited part of the world, where I could have been cast more to my advantage: a
62 ' T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or poisonous,
which I might have fed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another: and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God’s goodness
to me, and care over me in this condidion, be my daily consolation; and after I did make a
just improvement of these things, I went away, and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I brought on shore for my help, were
either quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a very little, which I eked out
with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black upon
the paper: as long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the month on
62 ' T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
bered that there was a strange concurrence of days, in the various providences which befell me,
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might
have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away from my father and my friends,
and ran away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same da of the year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.
The same ay of the yearIwas born on, viz., the 30th of September, the same day I had my
life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so
that my wicked life and solitary life both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink’s being wasted, was that of my bread; I mean the biscuit which
I brought out of the shi . This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but one
cake of bread a day for a ove a year; and yet I was quite without bread for near a year before
I got any corn of my own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had had none a good while, except
some chequered shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very
great help to me, that I had among all the men’s clothes of the ship almost three dozen of
shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats of the seamen’s, which were left indeed, but
they were too hot to wear; and though it is true, that the weather was so violently hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; no, though I had been inclined to
it, which I was not; nor could I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well
when quite naked, as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin ;
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whistling under the shirt, was
twofold cooler than without it: no more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the
sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of the sun beating with such violence as it does in that
place, would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly on m head, without a cap
or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting the few rags I had, which I called clothes,
into some order; I had worn out all the Waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I
could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such other ma-
terials as I had; so I set to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a batching; for I made most
piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three Waistcoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed,
till afterwards. ‘
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed
ones; and I had hun' them up stretched out with sticks in the sun ;\ by which means some of
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 63
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 63
shoot off the rain; and this I performed so well, that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly
of those skins; that is to say, a waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, and both loose; for
they were rather wanted to kee me cool, than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge, that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor:
however, they were such as I made very good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happened
to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make me an umbrella. I was indeed in great want
of one, and had a great mind tomake one. I had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are
very useful in the great heats which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great here,
and greater too, being nearer the e uinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it
was a most useful thing to me, as we 1 for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at
it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought I
had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind ; but at last I made one that
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 63
make it to spread; but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not be portable for
me any way, but just over my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made
one to answer; I covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-
house, and kept off the sun so effectually that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather,
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest, and when I had no need of it I
could close-it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed by resigning to the will of
God, and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His Providence : this made my life better
than sociable; for when I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself, whether
thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may say, with even God
Himself, by ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the
world P
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
lived on in the same course, in the same osture and place just as before. The chief thing I
was employed in, besides my early labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing my
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
sions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it, six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
do, how I should be able to launch it; so never being able to bring it to the water or bring the
water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser
next time. Indeed the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place were I could not get the water to it, at any less distance than, as I have said, of near
half a mile ; yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over ; and though I was
near trio years about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to
sea at ast.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
an end to that design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next design
was to make a tour round the island; for as I had been on the other side, in one place, crossing,
as I have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey, made me
very eager to see other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
n a little mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship’s sails,
which lay in store, and of which I had a great store by me.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I made little lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and
ammunition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and a little long
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
down over it to keep it dry.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the heat of the sun off me, like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little voyage
upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at last, being eager to
view the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved 1i on my tour, and accordingly I
victualled m ship for the voya e; putting in two dozen of myl'oaves (cakes I should rather call
them) of bar e -bread; an ea en pot full of parched rice, a food I ate a great deal of; a little
bottle of rum, alf a goat, and powder with shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen’s chests ; these I took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity, which you
please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected: for
though the island itself was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great led e of rocks lie out about two lea es into the sea, some above water, some under it; and
beyond tlgiis a shoal of sand, lying dry ha f a league more; so that I was obliged to go a great
way out to sea to double that point.
64 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should
get back again; so 1 came to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anchor, with a piece
of broken grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore, climbing up a hill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a strong, and indeed, a most
furious current, which ran to the east, and even came close to the point; and I took the more
i‘?
‘I
‘I-
*I’ililll“l“'
I
'..l'w1 .‘
 1 ‘ -
i 'i‘ , ‘ A
i . ‘ H } ‘ ‘\
I i '

jig i“ n W
i ' I
, ;'=.'_§n..- 
\“ r "',
ROBINSON CRUSDE AT DINNER.
notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger that when I came into it, I might be
carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make the island again. And indeed,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 6 5
current on the other side of the island, only that it set it off at a farther distance; and I saw
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 6 5
rent, and I should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing pretty fresh (E. at SE. and that
being just contrary to the said current) made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that
it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off because
of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over night, the sea was calm, and I
ventured; but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I
come to the point, when I was not m boat’s length from the shore, but I found myself in a
great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill. It carried m boat along with it
with such violence, that all I could do could not keep her so much as on t e edge of it: but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on the left hand. There
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 6 5
and now I began to give myself over for lost; for, as the current was on both sides the island,
I knew in a few leagues distance they must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it: so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing ;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a
tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat ; and I had a
great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a
thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make the most miserable condi-
tion that mankind could be in worse. Now I looked back upon m desolate solitary island, as
the most pleasant place in the world, and all the ha piness my cart could wish for, was to
be there again. I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes. “ 0 happy desert,” said
I, “ I shall never see thee more ! O miserable creature ! ” said I, “ whither am I going ? ”
Then; I reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repiued at my solitary
condition; and now what wouldI give to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the true
state of our condition, till it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor know how to value what
we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again: however, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted; and kept my boat as much to the
northward, that is, towards the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could;
when about noon, as the sun assed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my
face, s ringing up from the .S.E. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when in
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at a
frightful distance from the island ; and, had the least cloud of hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I had no com ass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I ha but once lost sight of it; but the weather
continuin clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to t e north as much as possible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch away, I saw even by the
clearness of the water, some alteration of the current was near; for where the current was so
strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and pre-
sently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks; these
rocks I found caused the current to part again; and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west with a very sharp
stream.
E
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the ladder, or to be
rescued from thieves just going to murder them, or who have been in suchlike extremities, may
guess what m present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of
this eddy; an the wind also freshening, how gladl I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy un er foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directl towards the island,
but about two lea ues more towards the northward than the current ay, which carried me _
66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinsou Crusoe.
of it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league of way by the help of this current or
eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no farther. However, I found, that being between
the two great currents, viz., that on the south side which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about two leagues on the other side; I say, between these two, in
the west of the island, I found the water at least still, and running no way; and having still a
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not making such
fresh way as I did before.
About four o’clock in the evening, being then within about a league of the island, I found
the point of the rocks which occasioned this distance, stretching out as is described before, to
the southward, and casting ofl‘ the current more southerly, had of course made another eddy to
the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course lay, which
was due west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this
eddy, slanting north-west, and in about an hour came within about a mile of the shore: it
bein smooth water, I soon got to land.
W en I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving
to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such
things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had espied under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the
vo a e.
I ‘gas now at a eat loss which way to get home with my boat; I had run so much hazard,
and knew too mug the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and what might
be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures; so I only resolved in the morning to make my way westward along the shore, and
to see if there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her
again if I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a
ver good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet,
or rook, where I found a convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her: here I put in, and having stowed my boat
veiy safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.
soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been before when I travelled
on foot to that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it
was exceeding hot, I began my march: the way was comfortable enough after such a vo age
as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found everyt ing
pitanding- as I left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said .before, my country-
ouse.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs, for I was very
weary, and fell asleep: but judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be
in, when I was awoke out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times,
“Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where
are you? Where have you been? ”
66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinsou Crusoe.
part of the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not awake thoroughly; and dozing
etween sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me: but as the voice
continued to repeat “Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe,” at last I began to awake more perfectly,
66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinsou Crusoe.
were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew
that this was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, “ Poor Robin Crusoe, Where are you ? Where have you
been ? How came you here ? ”—and such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could be nobody else, it
was a good while before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature got
thither, and then how he should just keep about the place, and no where else: but as I was well
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he use
to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe,’ and how did I come here ? and
where had I been? just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough to do for many
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
have had my boat again on my side of the island, but I knew not how it was practicable to get
it about. As to the east-side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturin that way; m very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to
think of it; an as to the ot er side of the island, I did not know how it might be there;
but su posing the current ran with the same force against the shore at the east, as it passed by
it on the other, I might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the
island, as I had been before of being carried away from it: so with these thoughts I con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had been the product of so many months’
labour to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a very sedate, retired life,
as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed, as to my condition,
and fully comforted in resigping myself to the dispensations of Providence, I thought I lived
really very happily in all t 'ngs except that of society. _
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic exercises which my necessities put me
upon applying myself to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter,
especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware, and contrived well
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
never was more vain of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing, when
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
draw the smoke, I was exceedin ly comforted with it ; for I had been always used to smoke, and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
island; and afterwards when I searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In in wickerware I also improved much, and made abundance of necessary baskets, as well
as my invention showed me, though not very handsome, yet convenient for my laying things
up in, or fetching things home in. For example, if I killed a_ goat abroad, I could hang it up
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and cave the rest behind me :_ also large
deep baskets were my receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
and cured; and kept it in great baskets, instead of a granary. _ _
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; and’this was a want which it was
impossible for me to supply: then I began serionsl to consider‘ what I must do when I
should have no more powder; that is to say, how I s ould do to kill any goats. I had, as_I
observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her tame; I was in
hopes of getting a he-kid, but I could not by any means bring It. to pass, till my kid grew an
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoo. 67
E .
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have said, my ammunition
growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them; and believe they were more than once
taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and always found them
broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pit-fall; so I dug several large its in the earth, in places
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over these pits fplaced hurdles of my own
making too, with a great weight upon them: and several times I put ears of barley, and dry
rice, without setting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in, and
eaten up the_corn, for I could see the mark of their feet; at length, I set three traps in one
night, and going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and
gone. This was very discouraging; however, I altered my trap; and not to trouble you with
particulars, going one morning to see my tra s, I found in one of them a large old he-goat;
and, in one of the others, three kids, a male an two females.
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
pit to him; that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted; I
could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my end; so I e’en let
him out, and he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his wits; but I did not then know
what I afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a lion: if I had let him stay there three
or four days without food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable
creatures, where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time; then I went to the
three kids; and taking them one by one, I tied them with strings together; and with some
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted
them, and they began to be tame: and now I found that if I expected to supply myself with
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
they would always run wild when they grew up; and the only way for this was to have some
enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually,
that those within might not break out, or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet as I saw there was an absolute
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep
them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures, will think I had very little contrivance, when I pitched
upon a place very proper for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow-land, or savanna
(as our people call it in the western colonies), which had two or three little drills of fresh water
in it, and at one end was very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell
them I began my enclosing of this piece of ground in such a manner, that my hedge, or pale,
must have been at least two miles about; nor was the madness of it so great as to the
compass; for if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not
consider, that my goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had had the whole
island; and I should have so much room to chase them in, that I should never catch them.
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
about 150 yards in lengt , and 100 yards in breadth, which as it would maintain as many as I
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with courage. I was about three
68 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and very often
would go and carry them some ears of barle , or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
and down, bleating after me for a handful of corn.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
kids and all; and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besides several that I took and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
little ens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted them; and gates out of one piece of
ground into another.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
too, a thing which indeed in my beginning I did not so much as think of, and which, when
it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and
had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never milked
a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily and handily, though
after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and never
wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat His creatures, even in those conditions in which
the seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the bitterest rovidences,
an give us cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was Ihere spread
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my little fami y sit down to dinner:
there was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my sub-
jects at absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels
among all my subjects!
Then to see how like a kin I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants ! Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was t e only person permitted to talk to me; my dog, which was now
grown old and crazy, and found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the other, expecting now and then
a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
dead, and had been interred near my habitation by my own hands; but one of them having
multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these were two which I preserved tame,
whereas the rest ran wild- into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last; for
they would often come into my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot
them, and did kill a great many; at length they left me with this attendance, and in this
plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said to want anything but society, and of that, in
some time after this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my boat, though very 1oth
to run any more hazard; and, therefore, sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about
the island, and at other times I sat in self down, contented enough without her. But I had a
strange uneasiness in my mind to go own to the point of the island, where, as I have said in
my last ramble, I went up the hil to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I
might see what I had to do. This inclination increased upon me every day, and at length I
resolved to travel thither by land, and, following the edge of the shore, I did so: but had any
one in England been to meet such a man as I was, it must either have frightened them, or
raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not
but smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage and in such
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck, nothing being
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 69
I had a short jacket of goat’s-skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my thighs,
and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same. The breeches were made of the skin of an
old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either side that, like pantaloons, it reached
to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none; but I made me a pair of something,
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
spatterdashes; but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat’s-skin dried, which I drew together with two thongs of the
same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and
dagger, hung a little saw and hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had another belt,
not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat’s-skin too, in one of which hung
my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun,
and over m head a reat, clumsy, ugly goat’s-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary t ing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really
not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahomctan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such,
though the Turks did. Of these mustachios. or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to
han my hat upon them; but they were of length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in
Eng and would have assed for frightful.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
take care of, I went over the land a nearer way, to the same hei ht thatI was upon before, when,
looking forward to the point of the rock which lay out, and whic I was obliged to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet—no rippling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in other laces.
I was at a strange loss to understand t is, and resolved to spend some time in the observing
of it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently convinced
how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current; and that according
as the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from the north, this current came nearer,
or went farther from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock
again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainl saw the current again as before, only that
it ran farther off, being near half a league from t e shore; whereas in my case, it set close
upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another time it would
not have done. ’
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but to observe the ebbing and the
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
began to think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the remem-
brance of the danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience; but
on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious; and
this was, that I would build, or rather make me another periagua, or canoe; and so have one
for one side of the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two plantations in the island; one
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
w ich by this time I had enlarged into several a artments or caves, one within another. One
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
70 I The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ear cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hands.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and
were by this time grown so big, and spread so ver much, that there was not the least appear-
ance, to any one’s view, of any habitation behind t em.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and upon lower ground, lay
my two pieces of corn ground; which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded
me their harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had now a tolerable plantation there also; for
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
and make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this
I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made me a squab or
couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid
on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my
country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say, my goats; and as I had
taken an inconceivable deal of ains to fence and enclose this ground, I was so uneasy to see it
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through between
them, which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made
the enclosure strong, like a wall; indeed, stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no pains to bring to pass
whatever appeared necessary for m comfortable support; for I considered the keeping up a
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
cheese, for me, as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping
them in my reach, depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that
I might be sure of keeping them together; which by this method, indeed, I so e ectually
secured, that when these little stakes began to grow, 1 had planted them so very thick, I was
forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place, also, I had my grapes owing, which I principally depended on for my winter
store of raisins, and which I never fai ed to preserve very carefully, as the best, and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed, they were not only agreeable, but physical,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place where I had laid
up my boat, I generally stayed, and 1a here in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit
my boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to her in very good order. Sometimes I went
out in her to divert m self, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above
a stone’s cast or two rom the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my know-
leidge again by the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene
0 my e.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with
the rint of a man’s naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I
stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened; I looked round me,
I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a rising ground to look farther. I went
up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again, to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might not be m
fancy, but there was no room for that, for there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, hee ,
and every part of a foot. How it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 71
degree, looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
fancying every stump at a distance to be a man: nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes an affrighted imagination represented things to me in ; how many wild ideas were formed
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
t e way.
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember the next morning, for
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from the occasion of my fright, the greater my
apprehensions were; which is something contrary to the nature of such things, and especially
to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my own frightful
ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I
now was a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied that it must be the devi ; and reason joined
in with me upon this supposition. For how should any other thing in human shape come into
the place? Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks were there of any other
footsteps? And how was it possible a man should come there ? But then to think that Satan
should take human shape upon him in such a place where there could be no manner of occasion
for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too—for he
could not be sure I should see it—this was an amazement the other way. I considered that
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
single print of a foot. That as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would never
have been so simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
wind would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with
all notions we usuall entertain of the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of suc things as these assisted to argue me out of all apprehensions of its being
the devil. And Ipresently concluded that it must be some more dangerous creature; viz., That
it must be some of the savages of the main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea
in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made the island ;
and had been on shore, but were gone away again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have
stayed in this desolate island, as I would have been to have had them. '
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
that I was so happ as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would ave concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps
have searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here; and that if so, I should certainly have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so that they
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
was founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, now vanished; as if
He that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve by His power the provision which
He had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my easiness, that would not
sow any more corn one year, than would just serve me till the next season, as if no accident
could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And this I thought
so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have two or three years’ corn beforehand, so
that whatever might come, I might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is thelife of man! And by what secret differing
springs are the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances present! To-day we love
what tomorrow we hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun ; to-day we desire what to-
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
72 The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
banished from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut of?
from mankind, and condemned to what I call a silent life; that I was as one whom Heaven
thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of his
creatures; that to have seen one of m own species, would have seemed to me a raising me
from death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of
salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a
man, and was ready to sink into the ground, at but the shadow, or silent appearance of a man’s
having set his foot on the island ! .
Such is the uneven state of human life: and it afforded me a great many curious speculations
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute
His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to govern and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
my part to submit to bear His indignation, because I had sinned against Him.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
it, it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirel to His will. And, on
the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him, an quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of His daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, weeks and months; and one
articular effect of my cogitatiols on this occasion I cannot omit; viz. one morning earl , lying
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
discomposed me ve much ; upon which those words of the Scripture came into my thoughts,
“ Call upon Me in t e day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.”
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was
guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had done praying, I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart: wait, I say, on the Lord.”
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me; and in return, I thankfully laid down the
book, and was no more sad ; at least, not on that occasion.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
one day, that all this might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print
of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too, and I
began to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own foot; and
why might not I come that way from the boat as well as I was going that way to the boat P
Again, I considered also, that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod, and where
I had not ; and that, if at last this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of
those fools, who strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are themselves
frightened at them more than anybody else.
Now I began to take courage, and to pee abroad again; for I had not stirred out of my
castle for three days and nights, so that I Began to starve for provision; for I had little or
nothing within doors, but some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion: and the poor creatures were in great
pain and inconvenience for want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk.
Heartening -myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of
my own feet (and so I might be truly said to start at my own shadow), I began to go abroad
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 73
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down
my basket, and run for my life; it would have made any one have thought I was haunted
with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I
had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a
little bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could
not persuade myself fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts. Secondly,
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
to the highest degree; so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague, and I went home ‘again,
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security, I knew not.
0 what ridiculous resolutions men take, when possessed with fear! It deprives them of the
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
was to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
such a grain there, and still to be prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of my habitation, and be prompted to look
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
apprehensions which ad so over-run my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of
vapours as above. Thus, fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifyin than danger
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
the evil which we are anxious a out; but, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in
this trouble from the resi nation I used to practise that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought,
like Saul, who complaine not only that the Philistines were upon him, but that God had for-
saken him; for I did not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my
distress, and resting upon His Providence, as I had done before, for my defence and deliver-
ance: which if I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new sur-
prise, and, erhaps, carried through it with more resolution.
This confilsion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the morning I fell' asleep,
and having by the amusement of my mind been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I
slept very soundly, and awaked much better composed than I had ever been before. And now I
began to think sedatcly; and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this island,
which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might ima ’ e. That although there were no stated in-
habitants who lived on the spot; yet, that t ere might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who either with design, or, perhaps, never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place.
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
any people before; and that if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable they
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
any occasion to this time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from was from any such casual accidental landing
of straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed,
seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and day-
light back again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat,
in case I should see any savages land iipon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that had dug my cave so large as to bring a door through
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
74 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsau Crusoe.
of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees
about twelve years before, of which I made mention. These trees having been planted so thick
before, there wanted but a few piles to be driven between them that they should be thicker and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and everything I could think of to make it strong, having in it seven little holes, about
as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to about ten feet
thick, continually bringing earth out of my cave and la ing it at the foot of the wall and walking
upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to p ant the muskets, of which I took notice
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without m wall, for a great way every way, as
full with stakes or sticks of the ozier-like wood, which I ound so apt to grow, as they could well
stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leavin a pretty
large space between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might
have no shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and
no man, of what kind soever, would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, much
less a habitation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), it
was by setting two ladders—one to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that; so, when the two ladders were taken down, no man
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own preservation; and
it will be seen at length that they were not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw
nothing at that time more than my mere fear suggested.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other affairs, for I had a great
concern upon me for my little herd of goats; they were not only a present supply to me u on
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
also abated the fatigue of in hunting after the wild ones, and I was 1oth to lose the advantage of
them, and to have them al to nurse up over again.
To this pur ose, after long consideration, I could think but of two ways to reserve them:
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
it every night; and the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from one
another, and as much concealed as I could, where I mi ht keep about half a dozen young goats
in each place; so that if any disaster happened to the ock in general, I might be able to raise
them again with little trouble and time : and this, though it would require a great deal of time
and labour, I thought was the most rational design.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
upon one, which was as private indeed as my heart could wish; for it was a little damp piece
o ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost
myselfonce before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the island:
here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that it was
almost an enclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much labour to make it so, as the
other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less than a month’s time I had
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 75
delay, I removed ten she-goats and two he-goats to this piece; and when there, I continued
to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All thi labour I was at the expense of, urely from my apprehensions on the account
of the print of a man’s foot which I had) seen; for as yet, I never saw any human
creature come near the island; and I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses,
which indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagined, by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man;
and this I must observe with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind had too great
impressions also upon the religious part of my thoughts, for the dread and terror of falling
into the hands of savages and eannibals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom found myself in
a due temper for a plication to my Maker; at least not with the sedate calmness and
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and ressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation every night of being
mur ered and devoured before the morning; and I must testify from my experience that a
temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much more the proper frame for prayer
than that of terror and discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief impending, a
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
body, and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that of
the body, and much greater, praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body.
But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went about the
whole island, searching for another private place to make such another deposit, when wanderin
more to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea,I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen’s chests which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me,
and this was so remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till my
eyes were not able to look an longer: whether it was a boat or not do not know, but as I
descended from the hill I con d see no more of it, so I gave it over, only I resolved to go no
more without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the island, where indeed I had never been
before, I was presently convinced, that the seeing the print of a man’s foot, was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special Providence that I
was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came, I should easily have known
that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main when they happened to
be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would
bring them over to this s ore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals,
they would kill and eat them: of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above,'being the S.W. point of the
island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the horror
of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to
their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things that I entertained no notions of any
danger to myself from it for a long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutalit , and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature; which, though I had heard often, yet never had so near a view of before: in short,
I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle, my stomach grew sick, and I was ’ust at
the point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach, and, aving
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the
place a moment; so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on
towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still awhile as amazed; and
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
76 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that though I had
esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it,
"in. _. V . u
that I had still more to give thanks for than to complain of; and this above all, that I had,
even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 77
I had suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my castle, and began to be much easier now,
as to the safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed, that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they could get; perhaps not seeking, not
wanting, or not expecting anything here; and having often, no doubt, been u in the covered
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 77
almost eighteen years, and never saw the [least footsteps of a human creature there before;
and might be here eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover
myself to them, which Ihad no manner of occasion to do, it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals
to make my self known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been speaking of,
and of the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost two years after
this: when I say my own circle, mean by it my three plantations, viz., my castle, my
country seat, which I called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look after
this for any other use than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave
me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the
devil himself; nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in al this time, but began
rather to think of making me another; for I could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of those
creatures at sea, in which, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I was in no danger of being discovered by
these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in
the same composed manner as before; only with this difference, that I used more caution, and
kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 77
the island should happen to hear it; and it was therefore a ver good providence to me,
that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I ad no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was
with traps and snares, as I had done before: so that for two years after this, I believe I
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 77
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. I likewise furbished up one of the great cutlasses
that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to put it in also; so that I was now a most
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former descri tion of
myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great broad-sword hanging at my side in a elt, but
without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, excepting these cautions,
to be reduced to my former calm sedate way of living; all these things tended to show me more
and more how far my condition was from being miserable, compared to some others; nay, to
many other particulars of life, which it might have leased God to have made my lot. It
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 77
of life, if people would rather compare their condition with those that are worse, in order
to be thankful, than be always comparing them with those which are better, to assist their
murmur-ings and complainings.
As in m present condition there were not really many things which I wanted, so indeed
I thought t at the frights I had been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had
beenin for my own preservation, had taken oE the edge of my invention for my own con-
veniences; and I had dropt a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon; and
that was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew
myself some beer: this was really awhimsical thought, and I reproved m self often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the want of severa things necessary
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I could never compass; no,
though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to no purpose. In
the next place, I had no hops to make it kee , no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle
to make it boil; and yet, had not all these things intervened, I mean the frights and terrors
I was in about the savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I
sehllom gave anything over without accomplishing it, when I once had it in my head enough
to egin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for night and day I could think of nothing
but how I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if
possible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume
than this whole work is intended to be to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon in m thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least frightening them,
so as to prevent t eir coming hither any more; but all was abortive. Nothing could be
possible to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and what could one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their
darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could
with my gun ?
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
so much powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity of a barrel, so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise them; and, at best,
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
would place myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three guns a l double-loaded,
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and then, falling in upon them with my three
pistols and my sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all.
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it that I often dreamt
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
proper places to put m self in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; andI went frequently
to the place itself, whic was now grown more familiar to me, and especially while my mind
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
the sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the
barbarous wretches devouring one another, abated my malice.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
wait till I saw any of the boats coming, and might then, before they would be ready to come on
shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow large
enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might sit and observe all their bloody doin s,
and take my full aim at their heads when they were so close to ether as that it would %9
next to impossible that I should miss my shoot, or that I could fa’ wounding three or four of
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
and my ordina fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of s ugs each, and four
78 T/ze Lzzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msoe.
a handful of swan-shot of the largest size. I also loaded m pistols with about four bullets
each; and in this posture, well provided with ammunition or a second and third charge, I
prepared myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in my imagination put it in practice,
I continually made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle,
as I called-it, about three miles or more, to see if I could observe any boats u on the sea,
coming near the island or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty
after I had for two or three months constantly kept m watch, but came always back without
any discovery, there havin not in all that time been t e least appearance, not only on or near
the shore, but not on the w ole ocean, so far as my e es or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to ook out, so long also I kept up the vigour
of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so outrageous
an execution, as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, foran offence which I had not
at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than n1 passions were at
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His wise dis osition of the world, to have
no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiate passions; and consequently
were left, and perhaps had been for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirel abandoned of Heaven, and actuated by some
hellish degeneracy, could have run them into; ut now, when, as I have said, I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long, and so far, every morning in vain;
so my opinion of the action itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler and calmer
thoughts, to consider what it was I was going to engage in; what authority or call I had
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
executioners of His judgments upon one another; also, how far these eople were offenders
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
promiscuously one upon another. I debate 's very often with myself thus : How do know
what God Himself judges in this particular case? It is certain these people do not commit
this as a crime; it Is not against t eir own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a captive
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong
in it; that these people were not murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in
my thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers, who often put to death the
prisoners taken in battle, or more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men
to the sword, without giving quarter, thou h the threw down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, t at algeit the usage they gave one another was thus
brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these people had done me no injury :
that if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to fall u on
them, something might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their power, and they ad
really no knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me; and therefore it could not be
‘net for me to fall u on them: that this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards, in all their
arbarities practise in America, where they destroyed millions of these people, who, however
the were idolaters and barbarians,and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 79
people; and that the rooting them out of the coimtry is s oken of with the utmost abhorrence
and detestation, even by the Spaniards themselves, at is time, and by all other Christian
nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable
either to God or man; and such, as for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to
be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if the
kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the product of a race of men, who were without
rinciples of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to
he a mark of a generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a ause, and to a kind of a full stop; and I began
by little and little to be off my desi u, an to conclude I had taken a wrong measure in my
resolutions to attack the savages; t at it was not my business to meddle with them, unless
80 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
were discovered and attacked, then I knew m duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, t at this really was the way, not to deliver myself,
but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one that not
only should be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but
one of them escaped to tell their country-people what had happened, they would come over
again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows; and I should only bring upon
myself a certain destruction, w 'ch at present I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other
to concern myself in this affair: that my business was by all possible means to conceal myself
from them and not~to leave the least signal to them to guess by, that there were any living
creatures upon the island—I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was convinced now many ways that I was
perfectly out of my duty, when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of
innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me; as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one
another, I had nothing to do with them; they were national, and I ought to leave them to the
justice of God, who is the governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments, to
make a just retribution for national offences, and to bring public judgments upon those who
offend in a public manner, by such ways as best please Him.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me, than that I
80 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness, beseeching Him
to grant me the protection of His Providence, that I might not fall into the hands of barbarians;
or that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do
it in defence of my own life. ' 
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this: and so far was I from desiring
an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the
hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not; that I might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked by any advantage which might present itself, to fall upon them; only
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I had on the other side the island, and carried
it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove which I found
under some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst not,
at least would not, come with their boats upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left there belonging to her, though
not necessary for the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail, which I had made for her, and
a thing like an anchor, but, indeed, which could not be called either anchor or grappling :
however, it was the best I could make of its kind. All these I removed that there might not
b; thi left shadow of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon
t e is an .
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom went from my
cell, other than upon my constant employment, viz., to milk my she-goats, and manage my
80 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of danger : for certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island, never
80 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the coast; and I doubt not but they might have been several times on shore, after my appre-
hensions of them had made me cautious, as well as before; and indeed I looked back with some
horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would have been, if I had chopped upon them,
and been discovered before that, when naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot. ‘ I walked everywhere, peeping and peeping about the
island, to see what I could get: what a surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered
80 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping them!
I'K'f'
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, and distressed m mind so
much, that I could not soon recover it; to think what I should have done, and ow I not
only should not have been able to resist them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done; much less what now, after so much consideration and
preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I should be
very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last all into
thankfuluess to that Providence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers, and had
kept me from those mischiefs, which I could in no way have been the agent in delivering
myself from; because I had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least
supposition of it being possible.
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
this life; how wonderfull we are de ivered when we know nothing of it: how, when we are
in a quandary (as we cal it), a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this way or that way, a,
secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to go that way; nay, when sense, our
own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to go the other way, yet a. strange impression
upon the mind, from we know not what springs, and by we know not what power, shall
over-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that way
which we should have gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone, we should
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
certain rule with me, that whenever I found those secret hints, or pressings of my mind, to
doing or not doing anything that presented, or to going this way or that wa , I never failed
to obey the secret dictate; thou h I knew no other reason for it, than that sue a pressure, or
such a hint, hung upon my min . I could give many examples of the success of this conduct
in the course of my life; but more es cially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unha py
island; besides many occasions whiclieit is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I ad
seen with the same eyes then that I saw with now. But it is never too late to be wise; and
I cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to sli ht such secret intimations of
Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss,
and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and
the secret communication between those embodied and those unembodied; and such a proof as
can never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very remarkable instances,
in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess that these anxieties,
these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to all
invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my
food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
great distance in the day, should betray me: and for this reason I removed that part of my
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8!
in the woods; where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a
mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage,
had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed, would any
man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where, by mere accident,
I would say—if I did not see an abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence
—I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and, before I go on, I
must observe the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus :—
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could
not live there without baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c., so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal;
2
L "-F-w
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
But this is by the bye. While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that
behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place.
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
me; but I must confess to you, I made more haste out than I did in; when looking farther
into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave’s
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools,
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
an island all alone, and that I durst to believe there was nothing in this cave that was
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
in, but I was almost as much frightened as I was liefore; for I heard a very loud siglh,
like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half-
expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a
surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still, plucking up my spirits as well as
I could, and encouraging m self a little with considering that the power and presence of God
was everywhere, and was abie to protect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by the
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
monstrous frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying
indeed of mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able
to raise himself; and I thought with myself he might even lie there, for if he had frightened
me so he would certainly frighten any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as
to come in there while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round me, when I found the cave
was but very small; that is to say, it might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner of
shape, either round or square, no hands ever having been employed in making it but those of
mere nature. I observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in
farther, but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it,
and whither I went I knew not; so, having no candle, I ave it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day provided with candles an a tinder-box, which I had made
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six large candles of my own making (for I
made very good candles now of goat’s tallow), and going into this low place I was obliged
to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards, which, by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough considering that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond
it. When I was got through the streight I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near
twenty foot: but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
lights to me from my two candles. What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other
precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppose it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind as could be expected,
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
82 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience, so
that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to brin some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this place; particularly I resolve to bring
hither my magazine of powder and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces (for I had three
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready also
to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition I took occasion to open the barrel of powder
which I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet, and I found that the water had
penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on every side, which, caking and growing
hard, had reserved the inside like a kernel in a shell, so that I had near sixty pound of very
good pow er in the centre of the cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to me at that
time, so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three pound of powder with me
‘inlrlny castle for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for
u ets.
l fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which are said to live in caves and holes
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
venture to attack me here.
The old goat, who I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave the next day after I made
this discovery; and I found it muc easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in, and
cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my
nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this island, and was so naturalized to the
place and to the manner of living that, could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages
would come to the iplace to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitulated for
spending the rest o my time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and died,
li e the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak, and he did it so familiarly, and talked so
articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me, and he lived with me no less than six-
and-twenty years. How long he might live afterwards I know not, though I know they have
a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor Poll may be alive there
still, calling after poor Robin Crusoe to this day ; I wish no Englishman the ill-luck to come
there and hear him: but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was a
very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then
died of mere old age; as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
But at length, when the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some time
continually driving them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all ran
wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young, when
they had any, I always drowned, and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three household kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand; and I
had also more parrots which talked prett well, and would all call B-obiu Crusoe, but
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 8 3
him. I had also several tame sea fowls, whose names I know not, who I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes, which I had planted before my castle wall,
being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred
there, which was very agreeable to me, so that, as I said above, I began to be very well
contented with the life I led, if it might but have been secured from the dread of the savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet
with my story to make this just observation from it, viz. How frequently, in the course of our
lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the
most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by which alone
we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give many examples of
this in the course of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable
than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-third year; and this being
I‘
the southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest, and
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was su rised with seeing a 1i ht of some
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; but not on the other side: but to my
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped short within my rove, not daring
to go out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from t e apprehensions
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
or any of my works and improvements, they would immediately conclude that there were
people in the place, and wou d then never give over till they had found me out. In this
extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence. I loaded all
my cannon, as I called them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to
God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I continued about
two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send
out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was not able to
bear sitting in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
again, and mounted to the top of the hill; an pulling out my perspective glass, which
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the place. I presently found there was no less than nine naked sava es sitting round a small
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not know.
The had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon the shore; and as it was
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my
side the island, and so near me too; but when I observed their coming must be always with the
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and having made this observation, I went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the westward, I saw them all
take boat, and row (or paddle as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for an _
hour and more before they went off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but
that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them; but whether they
were men or women, that I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns n on my shoulders, and two pistols
at my girdle, and my great sword b my side, without a sea bard; and with all the speed I
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
And as soon as I got thither, which was not less than two hours (for I could not go apace,
being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages
0}]: that place; and looking out farther, 1 saw they were all at sea together, making over for
t e main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especiall when going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of horror which the dismal work they ad been about had left behind it, viz. the blood,
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
84 Tize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to prcme litate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who or how many
soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus make to this island are not very
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
that is to say, I neither saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time; for
as to the rainy seasons, then the are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far: yet all
this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant apprehension I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise; from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
bitter than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off that expectation or those
apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering humour; and took up most of my hours,
which should have been better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall u on
them the very next time I should see them; especiall if they should be divided, as t ey
were the last time, into two parties; nor did I consi er at all, that if I killed one party,
suppose ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great dperplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting that I should
one day or other fall into the hen s of these merciless creatures. And if I did at any time
venture abroad, it was not without looking round me with the greatest care and caution
imaginable; and now I found to my great comfort, how happy it was that I provided
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
near that side of the island where they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages; and
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any more of the
savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true they might have
been there once or twice, but either they made no stay, or, at least, I did not hear them, but in
the month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a very
strange‘encouuter with them, of which in its place.
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
I slept unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out of m sleep in the
night. In the day great troubles overwhelmed m mind; and in the night I dreamed often
of killing the savages, and the reasons why I mig t justify the doing of it. But to waive all
this for a while, it was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor
wooden calendar would reckon, for I marked all u on the post still; I say, it was the sixteenth
of May, that it blew a very great storm of win all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night it was after it. I know not what was the particular occasion of
it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with ver serious thoughts about my
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste imaginable; and in a trice clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and
pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill; the very moment
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
heard, and by the sound knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven out with
the current in my boat.
Iimmediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that they had some
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
obtain help. I had this presence of mind at that minute as to think, that though I could
not help them, it may be they might help me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
T he Lzfe and Adventurcs of Roinson Crusoe. 85
was dry, and blazed freely, and ough the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out,
that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
86 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiusan Crusoe.
86 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiusan Crusoe.
it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of
the island; whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the distance
was so reat, and the weather still something hazy also ; at least it was so out at sea.
I 1oo ed frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it did not move ; so I
presently concluded that it was a ship at an anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
86 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiusan Crusoe.
where I had been formerly carried away with the current; and getting up there, the weather by
this time'being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast
away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and
which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering then from the most desperate, hopeless condition,
that ever I had been in in all my life.
Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s destruction; for it seems these men, whoever
they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had been
driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E. Had they seen the
island, as I must necessarily su pose they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured
86 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiusan Crusoe.
86 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiusan Crusoe.
I imagined that, upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their boat, and
have endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea going very high, they might have
been cast away: other times I imagined that they might have lost their boat before, as might
be the case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the seasupon their ship, which many
times obliges men to stave or take in pieces their boat; and sometimes to throw it over-board
with their own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in company,
who, u on the signals of distress they had made, had taken them u and carried them off:
otherw iles I fancied they were all gone of f to sea in their boat, an Lbeing hurried away by
the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing; and that erhaps they might by this time think of
starving, and of bein in a condition to eat one anot er.
As all these were ut conjectures at best, so, in the condition I was in, I could do no more
than look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had still this good effect
on my side, that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily
and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships’ companies,
who were now cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare that the providence of God casts us into
any condition of life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see something or other to be
thankful for, and may see others in worse circumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could not so much as see room to
suppose any of them were saved; nothing could make it rational, so much as to wish or expect
that they did not all erish there, except the possibility only of their being taken up by another
ship in company: an this was but mere possibility indeed; for I saw not the least signal or
appearance of any such thing.
cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange longing or hankerin of
desires I felt in my soul upon this sight; breaking out sometimes thus: 0 that there ad
been but one or two—nay, or but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to me, that
I might but have had one companion—one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and to
have conversed with! In all the time of my solitary life I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which, when they are set a going by
some object in view, or be it some object though not in view, yet rendered present to the
mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity to
such violent eager embracings of the object, that the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, That’but one man had been saved! “0 that it had
been but one ! ” I believe I repeated the words, “ O that it had been but one ! ” a thousand
times; and my desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would strike
together, and set against one another so strong, that for some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner of them: all I can say to
them is, to describe the fact, which was even surprising to me when I found it, though I knew
not from what it should proceed; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-
Christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbid it; for till the last year of my
being on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
island which was next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a seaman’s waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed lined drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to
guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this wreck, not
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
not altogether press me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not onl save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree: and this thought 0 ung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet night nor
day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God’s providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my mind, that it could not be
resisted, that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, prepared everything for
my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle
of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), a basket-full of raisins: and thus loading myself
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great
bag-full of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another large pot-full of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with
a bottle of goat’s milk, and a cheese ; all which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to my
boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage, 1 put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe
along the shore, I came at last to the utmost oint of the island on that side, viz. N .E. And
now I was to launch out into the ocean, and eit er to venture or not to venture. I looked on
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at a distance, and which
were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was driven into either of those currents, I
should be carried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach or sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should
be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my enterprise; and having
hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a little
rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage;
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
upon which my going was for so many hours impracticable. Upon this it presently occurred
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
T he Lzfe and Aaventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 87
I was driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another way home, with the same
rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a
little hill which sufficiently overlooked the see. both ways, and from whence I had a. clear view
of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here
I found, that as the current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
to do but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well enough.
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
tide; and reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under the eat watch-coat I mentioned,
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so
hurry me as the southern-side current had done before, and so as to take from me all govern-
ment of the boat; but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate
directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at; the ship, which by its building was Spanish, stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks: all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces with the
sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremast were brought by the board, that is to say, broken short o1f, but her bow-
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried, and as soon as I called him,
jumped into the sea to come to me; and I took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf
that had been starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some fresh
water, with which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it bein in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so
continually over her, that the men were not able to ear it, and were strangled with the constant
rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been under water; besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life, nor any goods that I'could see, but what were spoiled by
the water; there were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay
lower in the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see; but the were too big to
meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believe belonged to some of t e seamen, and I
got two of them into the boat without examining what was in them.
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
have made a good voyage; for by what I found in these two chests, I had room to suppose
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course she steered,
she must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to
Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use at that time to anybody;
and what became of the rest of her people I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I had no occasion
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
wanted extremel ; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a grid-
iron; and with t ’s cargo, and the dog, I came awa , the tide beginning to make home again:
and the same evening about an hour within nig t, I reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. _
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had
gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all
my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars ; the cask of liquor I found to be a
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils ; and, in a word, not at all good; but when
I came to open the chests, I found several things of great use to me: for example, I found in
88 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roln’nson Crusoe.
very good; the bottles held about three pints each, and were ti ped with silver. I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on e top, that the salt water

ROBINSON CRUSUE RiiSCUi’LS FRIDAY.
had not hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled. I found some very
good shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen and half of white linen handker-
chiefs, and coloured neckcloths; the former were also very welcome, being exceedingly refreshing
to wipe my face in a hot day; besides this, when I came to the till in the chests, I found there
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in
one of them, wrapt up in a pa er, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold;
I suppose the might all weig near a pound.
The other e est I found had some clothes in it, but of little value ; but by the circumstances,
it must have belonged to the unner’s mate, though there was no owder in it, but about two
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was o any use to me ; for
as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under m feet ;
and I would have given it for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, whic were
things I greatly wanted, but had not had on m feet now for many years. I had, indeed,
gotten two pair of shoes now, which I took oi the set of the two drowned men whom I saw in
the wreck; and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me ;
but they were not like our .English shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we call
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
0 cer.
Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that
before which I brought from our own ship; but it was at pity, as I said, that the other part
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
times over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe
enough till I might have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all m things on shore, and secured them, I went back to my boat, and
rowed or paddled her along t e shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best
of my way to my old habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet; so I began to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived
easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go
abroad so much; and if at any time did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east art
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
without so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition, as I always carried with
me, if I went the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head, that was always to let
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
and designs, how, if it were possible, might et away from this island; for sometimes I was
for makin another voyage to the wreck, thougdi my reason told me, that there was nothing left
there wort the hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured to
sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither.
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those who are touched with that general
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my father, the opposition to
which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been
the means of my coming into this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which so
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 89
have been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time, I mean in the
time of my being in this island, one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in that little time I lived there, and the in-
crease I should probably have made if I had stayed, I mi ht have been worth a hundred thou-
sand moidores ; and what business had I to leave a settle fortune, well-stocked plantation, ~im-
proving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when patience and time
would so have increased our stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own doors,
from those whose business it was to fetch them? And though it had cost us something more,
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
ordinarily the exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time; and so it was
with me now; and yet, so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not
satisfy myself in my station, but was continually poring upon the means and possibility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape: and how and upon what
foundation I acted.
I am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my
frigate laid up, and secured under water as usual, and my condition restored to what it was
before. I had more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer: for I had
no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came there. 
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
setting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in my bed or hammock, awake, and very
well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep: no, not a wink
all night long, otherwise than follows :—
It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled
through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night’s time. I ran over the
whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I ma call it, to my coming to this
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
state of my case, since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
and care, which I had lived ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand: not that I
did not believe the savages had frequented the island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on the shore there; but I had never known it, and was inca-
pable of any apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger, as if I had never really been exposed to
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
such narrow bounds to his sight and knowled e of things; and though he walks in the midst
of so many thousand dangers, the sight of whic , if discovered to him, would distract his mind,
and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the event of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of dangers which surround him.
90 Tile Lzfe and Adventures 0_f Kal'i/zs0/1 Crusoe.
real danger I had been in for so many years in this very island; and how I had walked about
in the greatest security and with all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but a brow
of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind
of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who would have
seized on me with the same viewas I did of a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more a
crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew; I would unjustly slander
myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility, that all these unknown deliverances were due,
and without which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in considering the
nature of these wretched creatures, I mean, the savages; and how it came to pass in the world,
that the wise Governor of all things should give up any of His creatures to such inhumanity,
nay, to something so much below even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind: but as this
ended in some (at times fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the
world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast was from whence they came; what they
ventured over so far from home for: what kind of boats they had ; and why I might not order
myself, and my business so, that I might be as able to go over thither as they were to come to
me. .
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with myself when I came
thither; what should become of me if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how I should
escape from them if they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to
reac i the coast, and not be attempted by some or other of them, without any possibility of
delivering myself; and if I should not fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, or
whither I should bend my course: none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way ;
but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the main
land. I looked back upon my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly
be ; that I was not able to throw myself into anything but death, that could be called worse;
that if I reached the shore of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief ; or I might coast
along, as I did on the shore of Africa, till I came to some inhabited country, and where I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 91
might take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an
end to all these miseries at once. Pray note. All this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an
impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the long continuance of my troubles, and
the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to learn some
knowledge from of the place where I was, and of the robable means of my deliverance. I say
I was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my ea m of mind in my resignation to Provi-
dence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had,
as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage to the
main; which came upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not
to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such violence that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with
the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep; one would have thought I should have
dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dreamed that I was oing
out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw u on the shore two canoes and e even
savages coming to land, and that they brought with t em another savage, who they were
going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill,
Jumped away, and ran for his life; then I thought in my sleep that he came running into my
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 91
not perceivhig that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him, that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon
which I showed my ladder, made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my
servant; and that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to myself, Now I may certainly
venture to the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do,
and whither to go for rovisions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and w at to esca e. I waked with this thought, and was under such inex-
pressible impressions of joy at t e prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint-
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 91
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way to go about an attempt for an
escape, was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one
of their prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring thither to kill; but
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 91
out attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them all; and this was not only a very des-
perate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the law-
fulness of it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood, though
it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this,
they being the same mentioned before: but though I had other reasons to offer now, viz. that
those men were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they could; that it was self-
.preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting
in my own defence, as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thou hts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were
very terrible to me, and such as I could y no means reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities about
it (for all these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head a long time), the eager
prevailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to
get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it would; the next thing then was to con-
92 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch to see them when t ey
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let be what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as often as possible, and
indeed so often, till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half that I waited,
and for great part of that time went out to the west end, and to the south-west corner of the
island, almost every day, to see for canoes, but none appeared: this was very discouraging, and
began to trouble me much; though I cannot sa that it did in this case, as it had done some
time before that, viz. wear off the edge of my esire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to
92 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as
to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their
being able, at any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with
this affair, but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages came near me for a great while.
Abouta year and a half after I had entertained these notions, and by long musing, had, as
it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them in execution, I
92 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
my side of the island, and the people who belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight:
the number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they always
came four, or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to
take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men singlehanded; so I lay still in my castle,
perplexed and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly rovided, and was just ready for action, if anything had presented. Having
waited a good while,]listening to hear if they made any noise; at length being veryqmpatient, I
set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top o the hill by my two stages,
as usual; standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that they could
not perceive me by any means : here I observed, by the elp of m perspective glass, that they
92 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
dressed; how they had cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was ; but they were all dancing
92 Tile Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
When I was thus looking on them, I erceived by my perspective two miserable wrete-hes
dragged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose, with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their way; and two or three others were at work imme-
diately, cutting him o en for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should be rea y for him: in that very moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a little
at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from them, and ran
with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly towards me, I mean, towards that part of
the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frightened (that I must acknowledge) when I rceived him to run my way;
and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued b the who e body; and now I expected
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that e would certainly take shelter in my
grove; but I could not depend, b any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
and my s irits began to recover, when I found that there were not above three men that followed
him ; an still more was I encouraged, when I found he outstript them exceedingly in running,
and gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he
would fairly get away from them all.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
of my story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship: and this I saw plainly he must neces-
sarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there ; but when the savage esca ing came
thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunged in, swam t rough in
about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third
could not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but went no farther;
and soon after went softly back again, which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
mam.
I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to get a servant, and perhaps a companion, or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor creature’s life. I im-
mediatel ran down the ladders with all possible expedition, fetches my two guns, for they
were bot at the foot of the ladder, as I observed above; and getting up again with the same
haste to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea; and having a ve short cut, and all down
hill, cla ped myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursue , hallooing aloud to him
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards
the two that followed; then rushing at once u on the foremost, I knocked him down with the
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
distance it would not have been easily heard: and being out of sight of the smoke too, they
would not have easily known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other
who pursued with him stop d, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced a pace towards
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
he stood stock still, and neither came forward or went backward, though he seemed rather
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
which he easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and then a little farther,
and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he stood tremblin , as if he had been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of; and he came
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve ste s, in token of acknowledgment for
saving his life. I smiled at im and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer.
At length he came close to me, and he then kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
his head upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head. This, it seems,
was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and
encouraged him all I could. But there was more work to do yet, for I perceived the savage,
who I knocked down, was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself :
so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke
some words to me; and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 93
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my
savage began to be afraid; but when I saw that I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend him
my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs
to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have
done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords. However, it seems, as I
learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard
that they will cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he
had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again,
and, with abundance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had killed, ’ust before me.
But that which astonis ed him most was, to know how I had killed the other Indian so far
off: so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him: so I bade him o, as well
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
on one side, then on the other; looked at the wound the bullet had made, which it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed; but
he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead : he took up his bow and arrows, and came back;
so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might
come after them.
Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand, that they might not
be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made sign again to him to do so. He fell
to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
other. I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour: then calling him away,
I carried him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the
island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that part; viz. that he came into my
grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed him, I made signs
for him to go lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice-
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight, long limbs, not too
large, tall, and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an European in his countenance too,
especially when he smiled : his hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very
high and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an n ly yellow nauseous tawny, as
the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are ; ut of a bright kind of a dun
olive colour, that had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
slept, about half an hour, he waked again, and comes out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just by. When he espied me, he came run-
ning to me, laying himself down again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an hum-
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before;
and after this, made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to
let me know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in many things, and
let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and
94 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the day I saved his life; I called him so for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to
sa , Master, and then let him know that was to be my name; I likewise taught him to say
“ es” and “No,” and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
Pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake of
bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him.
I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as it was day I beckoned him to come with
me, and let him know I would ive him some clothes; at which he seemed very glad, for he was
stark-naked. As we went by t e place where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
that we should dig them u again and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my
abhorrence of it, made as I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to
him to come away, which he did immediately with great submission. I then led him up to the
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and pullin out my glass, I looked, and saw
plainly the place where they had been, but no appearance of t em, or of their canoes; so that it
wfas plain that they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them, without any search
a ter them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more courage, and conse uently
more curiosity, I takes my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with t e bow
and arrows at his back, which I found he could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the lace where these creatures had
been; for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of t em. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sank within me at the horror of the spectacle ;
indeed, it was a dreadful si ht—at least, it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it.
The place was covered wit human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, great pieces of
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
triumphant feast they had been making there after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
the bodies ; and Frida , by his signs, made me understand that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that t ree of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great battle between them and their next king, whose subjects,
it seems, he had been one of; and that they had taken a great number of prisoners, all which
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
them, as was done here by these wretches u on those they brought hither.
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
I discovered so muc abhoi-rence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it,
that he durst not discover it, for I had, by some means, let him know that I would kill him if
he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I fell to work for my man
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
him very well; then I made him a jerkin of goat’s-skin, as well as m skill would allow, and I
was now grown a tolerably good tailor; and I (gave him a cap, which had made of a hare-skin,
very convenient, and fashionable enough: an thus he was dressed, for the present, tolerably
well, and was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is true,
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little easing
them, where he complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he took to them
very well. _
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began to consider where I should
lodge him; and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
T he Lzfe aud Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 9 5
formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within
the entrance, and, causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in
my ladders too, so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
had now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side
of the hill, which was again laid across with small sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched
over a great thickness with the rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole, or
lace which was left to o in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which,
if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all, but would have fallen
down and made a great noise; and, as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere
servant than Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs; perfectly obliged
and engaged; his very affections were tied to me like those of a child to a father, and I dare
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I
needed to use no precautions as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that however it had
pleased God in H18 providence, and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the
same reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
the capacities of doing good and receiving good that He has given to us; and that, when He
pleases to offer to them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready—na , more ready—to
apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we are. nd this made me
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
we make of al these, even though we have these powers enlightened b the great lamp of in-
struction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His Word, ad ed to our understand-
ing ; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of
souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than
we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty of Providence, and, as it
were, arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that light
from some and reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and
checked m thoughts with this conclusion :—First, that we did not know by what light and
law these s ould be condemned; but that as God was necessaril , and by the nature of His
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
tenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of sinning against that light which, as the
Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be ’ust though the foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, that,
still, as we are all clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to Him, Why hast Thou
formed me thus ?
But, to return to my new companion. I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my
business to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but
es ecially to make him speak, and understand me when I spake: and he was the aptest
scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased
when he could but understand me, or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me
to talk to him. And now m life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself that,
could I but have been safe rorr. more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from
the place while I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought that, in order to bring
Friday off from his horrid way of feedin , and from the relish of a cannibal’s stomach, I ought
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
96 Y/ze Lzfe and Adi/eumms of Robinson Crusoe.
as I was goingi saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her.
I catched hold of Friday. “Hold,” said I, “ stand still,” and made signs to him not to stir;
immediately I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who
had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know or could
imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked so amazed that
I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed
it, but ripped up his waistcoast to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found, presently
thought I was resolved to kill him, for he came and kneeled down to me, and, embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand, but I could easily see that the
meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm; and, taking him up by
the hand, laughed at him, and, pointin to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did; and, while e was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a great fowl like a hawk, sit upon
a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to me
again, pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thou ht it had been a hawk;
I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground un er the parrot, to let him
see I would make him fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to him; and I found he was the more,
amazed, because he did not see me put anything into the gun, but thought there must be some
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything,
near or far off : and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not wear off for a
long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me and my
gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but
would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by himself, which, as
I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch
the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead,
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
her up, and brought her to me; and, as had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might be
ready for any other mark that might present; but nothin more offered at that time: so I
brought home the kid; and the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
some very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him was to see me eat
salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat, and, putting a little into
his own month, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
with fresh water after it. On the other hand Itook some meat in my month without salt, and
I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do, he would never care for salt with meat, or in his broth—at least, not a great
‘while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast him the next
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
and one across the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn con-
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at
’ The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 9 7
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used
to do, as I observed before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after
he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after that I
let him see me make m bread, and bake it too. And in a little time Friday was able to do all
the work for me, as wel as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that having two months to feed instead of one, I must provide
more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do. So I
- G
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly, and very hard, but did it very cheerfully; and I told
him what it was for, that it was for comto make more bread, because he was now with
me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of
that part, and let me know that he thought I had much more labour upon me on his account
than I had for myself, and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him what
to do.
This was the pleasantest ear of all the life I led in this place. Friday began to talk
pretty well, and understand the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me ; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very little occasion for before, that
is to say, about speech. _Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in
the fellow himself; his simple, nnfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature; and on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to his own country again; and
having learned him English so well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him, whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle. At which he smiled,
98 7726 Lzfe and Adventures 0fRobinr01z Crusoe.
98 7726 Lzfe and Adventures 0fRobinr01z Crusoe.
came you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?”
Friday. “ My nation beat much for all that.”
Master. “How beat ? if your nation beat them, how came on to be taken?”
Friday. “They more many than my nation in the place w ere me was; they take one, two,
three, and me. My nation over beat them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my
nation take one, two, great thousand.”
Master. “ But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies ?”
Friday. “ They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go in the canoe; my nation have
no canoe that time.”
Master. “ Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men they take? Do
they carry them away, and eat them as these did ?”
Friday. “ Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.”
Master. “Where do they ca them ‘2”
Friday. “ Go to other place rvlihere they think.”
Master. “ Do they come hither ?”
Friday. “ Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.”
Master. “ Have you been here with them ?”
dFi-iday. “ Yes, I been here ” (points to the N.W. side of the island which it seems, was their
si e).
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the savages who used to
come on shore, on the farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions that he
was now brought for; and some time after when I took the courage to carry him to that -
side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he
was there once when they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child. He could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered them by laying so many stones in a row, and pointed to me
to tell them over. '
l have told this passage because it introduces what follows—that after I had had this dis-
course with him, I asked him how far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the
canoes were not often lost? He told me that there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that after a little way out to sea, there was a current, and wind always one way in the morning,
the other in the afternoon.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out, or comin in; but I
98 7726 Lzfe and Adventures 0fRobinr01z Crusoe.
river Oroonoque; in the mouth, or the gulph, of which river, as I thought afterwards our
island lay ; and this land, which I perceived to the W. and N.W., was the great island Trinidad,
on the north oint of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand uestions about
the country, t e inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were neanllie told me all
he knew with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations
of his sort of peo le, but could get no other name than Caribs ; from whence I easily understood,
that these were t e Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which reaches
from the mouth of the river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards to St. Martha. He told me,
that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be
W. from their country, there dwelt white-bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great
whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had killed “ much mans," that was his
word. By all which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole countries, and was remembered by all the nations from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island, and get among those
white men. He told me, “ Yes, yes, I mi ht o in two canoe.” I could not understand what
he meant, or make him describe to me what e meant by two canoe; till at last, with great
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 99
This part of Friday’s discourse began to relish with me very well; and from this time I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 99
from this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he began to speak to
me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his
mind; particularly, I asked him one time, Who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father; but I took it by another
handle, and asked him, Who made the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills and
woods. He told me it was one old Benamuckee that lived beyond all; he could describe
nothing of this great person but that he was very old; much older, he said, than the sea or
the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, “ If this old person had
made all things, why did not all things worship him?” He looked very grave, and with a
perfect look of innocence, said, “ All things do say 0! to him.” I asked him if the people who
die in his country went away an where? He said, “Yes, they all went to Benamuckee.”
Then I asked him, whether those t ey ate up went thither too? He said, “ Yes.”
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true God. I told him
that the reat Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven; that He
governs the world by the same power and providence by which He made it; that He was
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything to us, take everything from us; and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day
that, if our God could hear us beyond the sun He must needs be a greater God than their Bena-
muckeo, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to the great
mountains, where he dwelt, to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thit er to speak to
him. He said “No;" they never went that were young men; none went thither but the old
men, who he called their “ Oowookakee”——that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clerg ; and that they went to sa “ O l ” (so he called saying prayers), and then
came back and tol them what Benamuckee sai . By this I observed that t ere is priestcraft
even amongst the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making a
secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to
be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the world—even among the most
brutish and barbarous savages. 
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told him that the pretence of
their old men going up to the mountains to say “ Oh!” to their god Benamuckee was a cheat,
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much more so; that if they met with
any answer, or spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil s irit; and then I entered
into a long discourse with him about the devil, th2e original of him, is rebellion against God,
G-
758674A
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to our assions and to our affections, to
adapt his snares so to our inclinations as to cause us even to e our own tempters, and to run
upon our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the devil as it was
about the being of a God. Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the
necessity of a great First Cause and over-ruling governing Power, a secret directing Provi-
dence, and of the equity and justice of aying homage to Him that made us, and the like; but
there appeared nothing of all this in t e notion of an evil spirit—of his original, his being,
his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil and to draw us in to do so too; and the
poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and innocent,
that I scarce knew what to es to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
of iniquity; how, as He had made us all, He could destroy us, and all the world in a moment;
and he listened with great seriousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was God’s enemy in the hearts of men, and
used all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom
of Christ in the world, and the like: “Well,” says Friday, “but you say God is so strong,
so great, is He not much strong, much might as the devil? " “ Yes, yes,” said I, “Friday, God
is stronger than the devil: God is above the devil, and, therefore, we pray to God to tread
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
“But,” says he again, “If God much strong, much might as the devil, why God no kill the
devil, so make him no more do wicked?
I was strangely surprised at his question, and after all, though I was now an old man, yet I
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
said? but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his question: so that he repeated it in
the very same broken words as above. B this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said,
“ God will at last punish him severely; e is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
returns upon me, repeating my words, “ Reserve at last! me no understand: but why not kill
the devil now, not kill great ago ? ” “ You may as well ask me,” said I, “why God does not
kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that offend Him: we are preserved to repent
and be pardoned." He muses awhile at this. “Well, well,” says he, mighty affectionately,
“ that well; so on, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was
run down again y him to the last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how the mere notions
of nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a wor-
ship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the consequence of our nature : yet nothing
but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased
for us; of a Mediator; of a new covenant; and of an intercessor at the footstool of God’s
throne: I say nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the soul; and that,
therefore, the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and
100 T 1le Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe.
sary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of (god, and the means of salvation.
1 therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon
some sudden occasion of going out; then sending him for something a good way off, I seriously
prayed to God, that He would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assisting by
His Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God
in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak so to him from the Word
of God, as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved: when he
came again to me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption
of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached from heaven,
viz. of repentance towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus; I then explained to him,
as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the nature of angels, but the
seed of Abraham, and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in all the methods I took for this poor
creature’s instruction; and must acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the same prin-
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
many things, that either I did not know, or had not fully considered before; but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them for the information of this oor savage;
and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt before;
so that, whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful that ever he came to me. My grief sat 1i hter upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
to, I had not only been moved myself to look up to Heaven, and to seek to the hand that had
brought me there, but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life,
and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of
religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
soul, and I frequently rejoiced tligt ever I was brought to this place, WhiCh I has so often
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and I was such as made the three cars which we lived
there together perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as comp ete happiness can be
formed in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I,
though I have reason to hope and bless God for it that we were equally penitent, and comforted,
restored penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and no farther of f from His Spirit
to instruct than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to readin the Scri ture, and to let him know, as well as I could,
the meaning of what I read; and e a ain, by his serious inquiries and questions, made
me, as I said before, a much better scho ar in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever
have been by my own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from observing
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so
plainly laid down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare
reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my dut to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying ho d of a Saviour
for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedience to all God’s commands,
and this without any teacher or instructor (I mean human), so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a
Christian as I have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife and contention, which has happened in the world
about religion, whether niceties in doctrines or schemes of church government, they were all
perfectly useless to us, as, for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the world.
We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of God; and we had, blessed be God! comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by His Word, leadin us into all
truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the instruction of His Word; and cannot see
the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which have made
such confusions in the world, would have been to us, if we could have obtained it. But I must
go on with the historical part of things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he could understand almost
771c Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe. 101
my own story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming into the place, how I had lived
there, and how long. I let him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of gunpowder and
bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted
with; and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers
in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly England, which I came from;
how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on board
of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and quite gone.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and which I could not
stir with my whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this
boat, Frida stood musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon. At ast, says he, “ Me see such boat like come to place at my nation.”
I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I had examined further into it,
I understood by him that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore u on the country
where he lived—that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weat er. I presently
ima ined that some European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
mig t get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of men making
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come, so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me better to understand him when
he added, some warmth, “ lVe save the white mans from drown.” Then I presently asked
him if there were any “white mans,” as he called them, in the boat. “Yes,” he said, “the
102 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'a/z Crusoe.
him then, “ What became of them ?” He told me, “ They live; they dwell at my nation.”
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight of “ my island,” as I now call it, and who,
after the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves
in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this, I inquired of him more critically what was become of them. He assured me
they lived still there, that they had been there about four years, that the savages let them
alone and gave them victuals to eat. I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill
them and eat them. He said, “ No; they make brother with them”——that is, as I understood
102 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'a/z Crusoe.
102 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'a/z Crusoe.
It was after this some considerable time that, being on the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day discovered the main or continent
of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land,
and in a kind of surprise falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter. “ 0 joy!” says he, “ O glad! there see
my country, there my nation!”
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled,
and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
country again; and this observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, which made
102 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'a/z Crusoe.
that, if Friday could get back to is own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion,
but all his obligations to me; and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an account
of me, and come back perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon rue,
at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies when they were
taken in war. ‘
But I wronged the poor, honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry afterwards,
However, as my jealousy increased and held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
and not so familiar and kind to him as before, in which I was certainly in the wrong too, the
honest, grateful creature having no thought about it but what consisted of the best principles,
bothf as a religious Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satis action. '
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day pumping him, to see if
he would discover an of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found every-
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
picion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again, nor
did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at sea, so that we could not
see the continent, I called to him and said, “ Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own
country—your own nation ?” “ Yes," he “ said, he be much 0 glad to be at his own nation.”
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
and be as savage as you were before ?” He looked full of concern,_aud, shaking his head, said,
“ N o, no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pra God, tell them to eat corn-bread,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
looked grave at that, and then said, “No, the no kill me; they willing love learn." He
meant by this they would be willing to learn. His added, “ They learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat.” Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at
that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe for him. He
told me he would go if I would go with him. “ I go 1” said I, “ why, they will eat me if I come
there.” “ No, no,” says he, “ me make them no eat you; me make they much love you.” He
meant he would tell them how I had killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told rue, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen
white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see if I could possibly join with
these bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
good company together, better than I could from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone
without help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation, and accordingly I carried him to
my frigate, which lay on the other side of the island, and, having cleared it of water (for I
always kept it sunk in the water), I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it; would make it go almost as swift and
fast again as I could; so, when he was in, I said to him, “Well, now, Friday, shall we go to
your nation ?” He looked very dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he thought
the boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a bi ger; so the next day I went to
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
He said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or
three and twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and would carry “ much enough vittle, drink,
bread;” that was his way of talking.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/1s011 C rusoe. 105
continent, that I told him we would go and make one as big as at, and he should go home
in it. He answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him, what was the
matter with him? He asked me again thus, “Why you angry mad with Friday? what me
done?” I asked him what he meant? I told him I was not an ry with him at all. “ No
angry, no angry l ” says he, repeating the words several times. “ W y send Friday home away
to my nation?" “Why,” said I, “Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?”
“Yes, yes,” says he, “ wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no master there.” In a word,
he would not think of going there without me. “ I go there, Friday!" said I, “what should
I do there? ” He turned very quick u on me at this. “You do great deal much good," says
he, “ you teach wild mans be good, so er, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God,
and live new life.” “Alas, Friday,” said I, “then knowest not what thou sayest; I am but
an ignorant mau- myself.” “Yes, yes,” says he, “ you teechee me good, you teecheo them
good.” “ No, i1o, Friday,” said I, “ you shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself
as I did before.” He looked confused again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, comes and gives it me. “ What must I do with
this ? " says I to him. “ You take kill Friday,” says he. “ What must I kill you for ? " said
I again. He returns very quick, “ What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send
Friday away.” This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing to
stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection to me, and that nothing
should art him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country
was laid) in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing
which as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of
undertaking it: but still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an escape as above,
founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen bearded
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
even of good large vessels: but the main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the water,
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew much better than I what kind
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of
this tree out, to make it into a boat: but I showed him how rather to cut it out with tools,
which after I showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about a month’s hard labour
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside Into the true shape of a boat. After this, however,
it cost us near a fortnight’s time to st her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers
into the water; but when she was in, s e would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed me to see with what
dexterity and how swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along;
so I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over in her? “ Yes,” he said, “ he venture
over in her very well, though great blow wind: ” however, I had a farther design that he knew
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which
I found near the place, and which there was a great plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to
work to cut it down, and gave him directions how to sha e and order it: but as to the sail, that
was my particular care; I knew I had old sails or ratllier pieces of old sails enough; but as I
had had them now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve them, not
imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all
rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so: however, I found two pieces which appeared pretty
good, and with these I went to work and with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious
stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered, ugly thing,
like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships’ long boats sail with, and such as I best
knew howto manage; because it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I made my
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
104 T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to steer with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass, though, considering the many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I
think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what belonged to the navigation
of my boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what
belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw me work the boat to-
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
the course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed; however, with alittle use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he became
an expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could make him understand very little of that:
on the other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen
by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons; and then nobody cared to stir
abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my captivity in this place; though the
three last years that I had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account,
my habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept the anniver-
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of ieing effectually
and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon m thoughts, that my deli-
verance was at hand, and that I should not be another year in this p ace : however, I went on
with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes, and
did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when I kept more within doors than at other
times: so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek,
where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and haling her up to the
shore, at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out. And so she lay dry, as to the
tide, from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees so thick that
she was as well thatched as a house. And thus we waited for the months of November and
December, in which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thou ht of my design returned with the
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
certain quantity of provision, being the stores for the voyage; and intended, in a wee or a
fortni ht’s time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
sonnet ing of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, “ 0 master! 0 master ! O sorrow!
0 bad !” “ What’s the matter, Friday ?” said I. “ O yonder there," says he, “one, two, three
canoe! one, two, three!” By his way of speaking I concluded there were six, but on inquiry
I found there were but three. “ Well, Friday,” said I, “ do not be frightened ;” so I heartened
him up as well as I could. However, I saw the oor fellow was most terribl scared; for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to ook for him, and would cut im in pieces,
and eat him, and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to do with him. l
comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
matter for that," said I again, “ our guns will frighten them that we do not kill.” So I asked
him, whether, if I resolved to defend him he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as
I bid him ? He said, “ Me die, when you bid die, master ; ” so I went and fetched a good dram
of rum, and gave him, for I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left.
When he had drunk it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces which we always carried, and load
them with large swan-shot as big as small pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded
T/m Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 105
bullets each. I hung my great sword as usual naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the
hill, to see what I could discover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes. And that their whole business seemed to_ be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies,—a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing
else more than as I had observed was usual with them.
I observed also that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday made his
escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood came close
almost down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
resolved to go down to them, and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He
was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheerful; and told me, as before, “ he would die when I bid die."
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
took one pistol, and the other three myself; and in this posture we marched out. I took a small
bottle of rum in my ocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet; and as
to orders, I charged iiim to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything till
I bid him, and in the meantime not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass to
my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood; so that I
might come within shoot of them before I could be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it
was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolu-
' tion. I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their number; for as they were naked,
unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them—nay, though I had been alone. But it
occurred to my thou hts, what call, what occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to go
and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done or intended me any wrong;
who, as to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster, being in
them a token indeed of God’s having left them, with the other nations of that part of the
world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take upon me
to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice. That whenever he
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
them, as a people, for national crimes ; but that in the meantime, it was none of my business.
That it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of
war with those very particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could
not say the same with respect to me. These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts
all the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself near them, that I might
observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God should direct; but that unless
somethin offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With is resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible wariness and silence (Frida
following close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side whic
was next to them; only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I
bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there lainly what they were doing.
He did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there;
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
at the very naming the white-bearded man, and going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my lass, a
white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with ags or
things like rushes; and that he was a European, and had clothes on.
106 T/ze Lzfe and Adi/e71mms of Robinson Crusoe.
the place where I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undis-
covered, and that then I should be within half shot of them; so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree : and going back about twenty paces, I got
behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree, and then I came to a
little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat upon the
ground all close huddled together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday; “ Now, Friday,” said I, “do as I bid
thee.” Friday said he would. “Then, Frida ,” says I, “ do exactly as you see me do; fail
in nothing.” So I set down one of the mus ets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and
Frida did the like by his; and with the other musket I took in aim at the savages, bidding
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he shot, he killed two of
them, and wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not hurt, jumped up
upon their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or which way to look; for
they knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me,
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
I threw down the piece and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like. He sees
me cock, and present; he did the same again. “Are you ready, Friday ?" said I. “Yes,”
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with what
called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop; but so many were wounded, -
that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably
wounded most of them; whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
“Now, Friday,” says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking up the musket,
which was yet loaden; “Follow me,” says I, which he did with a great deal of courage. Upon
which I rushed out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and
running as fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being loaden with arms as
I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or
shore between the lace where they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
to the sea-side, and had jum ed into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
diately, and running about forty yar s to be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all; for I see them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of them
up again quickly. However he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down
in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been dead.
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
the poor victim ; and loosing his hands and feet I lifte him up, and asked him in the Portu-
uese ton ne, what he was? He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and
aint that e could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it l‘lim,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread which he
ate. Then I asked him, what countryman he was ? and he said, Espagnole; and, being a little
recovered, let me know, by all the si us he could possibly make, how much he was in m debt
fer his deliverance. “ Seignior,” said I, with as much Spanish as I could make u , “ we wi ltalk
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
sword, and lay about you.” He took them very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise of our pieces that they
fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own escape
T ln' Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 107
iiii tpe blpat, for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with
t e rig t.
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
because I ha given the S aniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and had him
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him my musket, I sat
down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted. While
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
the savages, who made at him With one of their great wooden swords, the same weapon that
was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had
cut him two great wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout lusty fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down (being faint), and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting his sword, drew the pistol from his
girdle, shot the savage through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was
running to help him, could come near him.
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
hand but his hatchet; and with that e despatched those three, who, as I said before, were
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
coming to me for a gun, I ave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two
of the savages, and wounde them both; but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them. But the other was
too nimble for him; and though he was wounded yet had plunged himself into the sea, and
swam with all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe,
with one wounded who we know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands
of one-and-twenty. The account of the rest is as follows :—
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot.
\’ 2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being dropped here and there of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of
them.
It Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.
21 in all.
Those that were in the canoe, worked hard to get out of gun-shot: and though Friday made
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape, lest carrying the news home to their people, they should come back, perhaps, with two
or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude. So I consented to pursue
them by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me;
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniarldp was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what the matter was. For he had not been able to look up over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long that he had
really little life in him.
108 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
would have helped him up; but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram, which, with the news of
his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when Friday came to hear
him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how Friday
kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung,
then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told me that
it was his father.
T he Lzfe and Adi/871124m4‘ of Robinson Crusoe. [09
tion had worked in this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from
death; nor indeed can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after this; for he
went into the boat and out of the boat a great many times: when he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father’s head close to his bosom half
an hour to ether, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with t e binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what
the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great
deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages, who were now
gotten almost out of sight; and it was happ for us that we did not; for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all ni ht, and that from the north-west, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their own coast.
T he Lzfe and Adi/871124m4‘ of Robinson Crusoe. [09
heart to take him off for some time; but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jum ing and laughing, and leased to the highest extreme. Then I
asked him, if he had given father any bread? a shook his head, and said, “ None: ugly
dog eat all up self.” So I gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose;
I also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to his father. ’ had
in my pocket also two or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat,
and run away as if he had been bewitched. He run at such a rate (for he was the swiftest
fellow of his foot that ever I saw), I say, he run at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as
it were, in an instant; and though I called and hallooed too after him, it was all one; away he
went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as he went;
and as he came nearer, I found his pace was slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to
bring his father some fresh water; and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread.
The bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father: however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it: this water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I
had given him; for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I‘ called to him, to know if there was any water left; he said,
“ Yes ; ” and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place, under the shade of a tree, and whose
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied
with: when I saw that upon Friday’s coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank,
and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave him a handful of raisins; he
looked up in my face, with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in
T he Lzfe and Adi/871124m4‘ of Robinson Crusoe. [09
that he could not stand up upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really
not able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father’s. _
I observed the poor affectionate creature every two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while
he was here, turned his head about, to see if his father was in the same place and posture as
he left him sitting: and at last he found he was not to be seen; at which he started up, and,
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he came, he only found he had laid himself
down to ease his limbs: so Friday came back to me resentl , and Ithen spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead im to t e boat, and then he should carry
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him; but Friday, a lusty, strong fellow, took
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe,with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted them
quite in, and set him close to his father, and presently stepping out again, launched the boat
off, and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard
too; so he brought them both safe into our creek ; and leaving them in the boat, runs away to
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him, whither he went ? He
told me, “ Go fetch more boat; ” so away he went like the wind; for sure never man or horse
ran like him, and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk ; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday to bid them sit
down on the bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of handbarrow to lay them on,
and Friday and I carried them up both together upon it between us; but when we got them to
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
possible to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it down : so I set to work again;
and Friday and I, in about two hours’ time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and above that with boughs of trees, being in the space Without our outward fence, and
between that and the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made them
two beds of such things as I had; viz. of good rice-straw; with blankets laid upon it to lie on,
and another to cover them on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich in subjects; and it was a
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
country was my own mere property; so that I had an undoubted right of dominion; 2ndly,
My people were perfectly subjected. I was absolute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me; it
was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three different religions. My
man Friday was a Protestant, his father a pagan and a cannibal; and the Spaniard was a
Iiiapist: however, I allowed liberty of conscience throughoutmy dominions: but this is by
t e way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and given them shelter, and a
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat,‘ betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very goo dish, I assure
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it without doors (for I made no re within my inner wall) so I carried it all into the new tent;
and having set a table there for them, I sat down and ate my dinner also with them; and,
\ as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being my interpreter, especially
to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too: for the Spaniard spoke the language of the
savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of the canoes, and go
110 ' T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
place of battle; and the next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive; and I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which I could
not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which
he punctually performed, and defaced the very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
Friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe‘?
and whether we might expect a return of them with a power too great for us to resist? His
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
night they went off, but must, of necessity, be drowned or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but
as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not: but it was his
opinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being attacked, the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
and lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the two which ap eared, viz. Friday and I,
were two heavenly spirits or furies come down to destroy them, an not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in their language to one another;
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in
the right, for, as I understood since by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
it seems they did esca e the sea), that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
This, however, I knew not, and, t erefore, was under continual apprehensions for a good
while, and kept always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as we were now four of us,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their coming wore off, and
I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured by Friday’s father, that I might depend upon good usage from their nation
on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood, that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who
having been cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the
savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries,_and indeed for life. I asked him all
the particulars of then voya e, and found the were a Spanish ship bound from the Rio de la
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
silver, and to bring back what Euro ean goods they could meet with there; that they had
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
and hazards, and arrived almost starved on the Cannibal coast, where they expected to have
been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for that they had
neither powder or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
I asked him what he thought would liecome of them there; and if they had formed no
design of making any escape ? He said they had many consultations about it; but that having
neither vessel, or tools to build one, or provisions of any kind, their counsels always ended in
tears and despair. '
I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from me, which might tend
towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done? I told him
with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me, if I put my life in their
hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square
their dealings b the obligations they had received, so much as they did by the advantages they
expected. I told im it would be very hard that I should he the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I I
and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the inquisition. I added, that otherwise I
was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so many hands, build a barque large
enough to carry us all away either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast
northward; but that if in requital they should, when I had ‘put weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might be ill-use for my kindness to them, and
make my case worse than it was before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that their condition was so miser-
able, and they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using
any man unkindl that should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would
go to them with t e old man and discourse with them about it, and return again, and bring me
their answer; that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they
should be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and captain; and that they should
swear upon the holy sacraments and the Gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian
countr as thatIshoulda ree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by
my orders, till they were anded safely in such country as I intended; and that he would bring
a contract from them under their hands for that purpose.
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
long as he lived till I gave him orders, and that he would take my side to the last drop of his
blood, if there should hap en the least breach of faith among his countrymen.
He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they were under the greatest
distress imaginable, having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and
discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that he
was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible, and to send the
old savage and this S aniard over to them to treat; but, when he had gotten all things in
readiness to go, the paniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence in
it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be very well
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
The case was thus :—
He had been with us now about a month, during which time I had let him see in what
manner I had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evi-
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
increased to number four; but much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as
he said, fourteen still alive, should come over; and least of all would it be sufficient to
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America. So he told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and the two other
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we
should wait another harvest, that we might have supply of corn for his countrymen when thev
should come; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
even against God Himself, that delivered them,when they came to want bread in the wilderness.”
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could not but be very well
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted, and in about a
month’s time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had gotten as much land cured and
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was,
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
our own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop—that is to say, reckoning from
the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in
the ground in the country.
I I2 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rmoe.
savages, if they had come, unless their number had been very great, we went freely all over
the island, wherever we found occasion; and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine; to this
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
his father to cutting them down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my
thought on that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed them with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
and from two inches to four inches thick; what prodigious labour it took up, any one may
imagine.
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
and to this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard to go out one day, and myself, with
Friday, the next da , for we took our turns; and by this means we got above twenty young
kids to breed up with the rest; for, whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very good living too, I assure you, for it is an
exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was not the most plentiful increase I
had seen in the island; but, however, it was enough to answer our end, for from twenty-two-
bushels of barley we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels; and
the like in roportion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all tlge sixteen S aniards had been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very pqentifully have victualled our shi to have carried us to any part of
the world—-that is to say, of America. When we had thus oused and secured our magazine of
corn, we fell to work to make more wickerwork—viz., great baskets, in which we kept it—and
the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me that I did not
make some things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it. And now, having a
full supply of food for all the guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the
main to see what he could do with those he left behind him there. I gave him a strict charge
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
in the island, who was so kind to send for t em in order to their deliverance; but that they
would stand by and defend him against all such attempts, and, wherever they went, would
be entirely under and subjected to his commands; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How we were to have this done, when I knew they had neither
pen or ink, that indeed was a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions the Spaniard and the old savage (the father of Friday) went
away in one of the canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought
in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
for now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes,
T be Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 3
days’ time; and, wishing them a good voyage, I see them go, agreein with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which I should know t em again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at full—by my account, in
the month of October; but, as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I
could never recover it again; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be
sure that I was right, though, as it proved when I afterwards examined my account, I found I
had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a strange and unforeseen
accident intervened of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast
H
asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and called
aloud, “ Master, Master, they are come, they are come.”
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove, which (by the way) was by this time grown to be a very thick wood;
I say, regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which was not my custom to do; but I
was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and
a half’s distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the southermost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie close, for these were not the people we
looked for, and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my pers ective glass, to see what I could make of
them; and having taken the ladder out, I clim ed up to the top of the hill, as I used to
do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered.
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half’s distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat
appeared to be an English long-boat.
cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing a ship, and one whom I had
reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I
cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from whence
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
sider what business an Enghsh ship could have in that part of the world; since it was not the
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were English really, it
was most probable that they were here upon no good design; and that I had better continue
as I was, t an fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man des ise the secret hints and notices of dan er, which sometimes are given him
when he may t ' there is no possibility of its being rea. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of things can deny; that they are
certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are from
some friendly agent (whether supreme or inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and
that they are given for our good ?
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
been made cautious by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not
come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but
run their boat on s ore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was very happy
for me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would soon
- have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps, have plundered me of all I had.
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all eleven men, whereof
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
even to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands some-
1 I4 T he Lzfe and Adwiztures of Robiuson Crusoe.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it should be.
Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could, “ 0 master! you see English mans eat
prisoners as well as savage mans.” “Why,” said 1, “Friday, do you think they are going
to eat them, then ? " “ Yes,” says Friday, “ they will eat them.” “ No, no,” said I, “ Friday;
I am afraid they will murder them indeed; but you may be sure they will not eat them.”
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but stood trembling with the
horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay,
once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall every moment, at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartil now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him; or that
I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have rescued the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
way. _
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the country. I
observed, that the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me, what dreadful apprehensions
I had, and how I lodged in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts.
As I knew nothin that night of the sup ly I was to receive by the providential driving of
the ship nearer the and, by the storms and tide by which I have since been so long nourished
and supported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and
supply they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and reall they were in a con-
dition of safety, at the same time that they thought themselves lost, and t eir case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully
upon the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures so absolutely destitute,
but that in the worst circumstances the have always something to be thankful for, and some-
times are nearer their deliverance than t ey imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these people came on shore, and while partly
they stood parleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly while they rambled about to
see what kind of place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent and
the water was ebbed considerabl away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her, the
boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to
forethou ht, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of t em say aloud to another (calling them off from the boat), “ Why, let her alone, Jack,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out of my castle, any farther
than to my place of observation, near the to of the hill; and very glad I was, to think how
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to see their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any. 
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roh’nson Crusoe. I 15
formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side,
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shou21der.
H
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it was dark; but
about two o’clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in short they were all gone straggling
into the woods, and, as I thought, were laid down to sleep; the three poor distressed men too
anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter of a great
tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and as I thou ht, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, an learn something of their condition.
116 T lze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe.
116 T lze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe.
I came as near them undiscovered as I coul , and then, before any of them saw me, I called
aloud to them in Spanish, “What are ye, gentlemen?”
They started up at the noise; but were ten times more confounded when they saw me, and
116 T lze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe.
116 T lze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe.
be surprised at me. Perhaps you may have a friend near you, when you did not expect it.”
“ He must be sent directly from Heaven, then,” said one of them, very gravely, to me, and
pulling of f his hat at the same time to me, “ for our condition is past the help of man.” “All
elp is from Heaven, sir,” said I; “ but can you put a stranger in the way how to help you P
for you seem to me to be in some great distress. I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his
sword to kill you.”
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling, looking like one astonished,
returned, “Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel ?" “Be in no fear
about that, sir," said I; “if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in; pray lay aside your fears. I
am a man—an Englishman~and disposed to assist you; you see I have one servant only. We
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve you ? What is your case ? ”
“Our case,” said he, “sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so near; but in
short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have set me on s ore in this desolate place
—with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger—where we expected to
perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it.”
“Where are those brutes! your enemies?” said I. “Do you know where they are gone?”
“There they lie, sir,” said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. “ My heart trembles for fear they
have seen us, and heard you s eak; if the have, the will certainl murder us all.”
116 T lze Lzfe and A dwntures of Robinson Crusoe.
they left in the boat. “Well, then,” said I, “leave the rest to me. I see they are all asleep;
it is an easy thing to kill them all, but shall we rather take them prisoners?” He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to show an mercy to;
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty. asked him
which they were? He told me he could not, at that distance, describe them, but he would
obe my orders in anything I would direct. “ Well,” said I, “let us retreat out of their view
or caring, lest they awake, and we will resolve further.” So they willingly went back with
me, till the woods covered us from them.
“Look you, sir,” said I, “if I venture upon your deliverance, are you willing to make two
conditions with me ?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling me t at both he and the ship,
if recovered, should be wholl directed and commanded by me in everything; and if the ship
was not recovered, he would?’ live and die with me in what part of the world soever I would
send him ; and the two other men said the same.
“Well,” said I, “my conditions are but two: 1. That while you stay on this island with
me, you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I ut arms into your hands, you will
upon all occasions give them up to me, and do no preju cc to me or mine, upon this island,
and in the meantime to be governed by my orders.
“ 2. That if the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man to England,
passage free.”
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and faith of man could devise. that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands; and besides, would owe his life to me, and
acknowled e it upon all occasions as long as he lived.
“ Well, t en,” said I, “ here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball; tell me next
what you think is pro er to be done.” He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able, but offered to Ric wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
so put it wholly upon God‘s providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it; but that those
two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and
if they escaped we should be undone still, for they would go on board, and bring the whole
ship’s company, and destroy us all. “ Well, then,” said I, “necessity legitimates my advice;
for it is the only way to save our lives.” However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him, the should go themselves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of t ’s discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon after we saw two of
them on their feet. I asked him if either of them were the men who he had aid were the
heads of the mutiny? He said, “No.” “Well, then," said I, “you may let them escape,
and Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now,” said I,
“if the rest escape on, it is your fault.”
Animated witht is, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and pistol in his
belt, and his two comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand: the two men, who
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then; for the moment
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
they had sowell aimed their shot at the men they knew. that one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other: but the captain, step ing to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help; he should call upon God to forgive is villainy; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more: there were
three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly wounded; by this time I was
come; and when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would s are their lives, if they would give him any assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they ad been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to
him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence
they came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired; and he
was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not against; only I obliged him
to keep them bound hand and foot while they were upon the island.
WVhile this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain’s mate to the boat, with orders to
secure her, and bring away the oars and sail, which they did; and by-and-bye, three straggling
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
and seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted
to be bound also, and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one another’s circumstances.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
ment, and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions and
ammunition; and indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply;
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I I 7
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment,
leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the house; where I refreshed them
with such provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had made during my
long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but above all, the captain
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
trees, which, having now been planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was unpassable in any part of
it, but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it: I told him this
was my castle, and my residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time; but at
present our business was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that;
ut told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take; for that there were still six and
twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed cons iracy, by which they had all
forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by esperation; and would carry
it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should be brought to the gallows as soon as
they came to England, or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were. 1
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very rational conclusion,
and that therefore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to draw the men on
board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying
11s: upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a little while, the ship’s crew. wondering
what was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat to see for them; and that then‘ perhaps they might come armed, and be too strong
for us : this he allowed was rational. ‘
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the each, so that they might not carry her oE; and taking everything out of her, leave her so
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and
another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the cars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat,
were carried away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we could be able to recover the ship; but my
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my
way; for I had them still in my thoughts. 
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
besides, had broken a hole in her bottom, too big to be quickly sto ped, and were sat down
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
times, making other signals for the boat.
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
stir, we saw them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another boat out, and row towards the
shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, and
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view of them as they came,
and a plain sight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide having set them a little
to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where the
other had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat; of whom he said that there were three very honest
iellows, who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and
rightened.
r 1 8 T/ze Lzfe and_ Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship’s crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate
in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too powerful
or us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear;
that, seeing almost every condition that could be was better than that we were supposed to be
in, we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliverance. I asked him, what he thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether a
deliverance was not worth venturing for? “ And where, sir,” said I, “is your belief of my
being preserved here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago ? For
my part,” said I, “there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.” “ What is
that?” says he. “Why,” said I, “ it is that, as you say, there are three or four honest fellows
among them, which should be spared; had the been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should
have thought God’s providence had singled t em out to deliver them into your hands; for,
depend upon it, every man of them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live, as
they behave to us.”
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
e ectua . .
Two ofy them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and
one of the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
delivered themselves. Here they left them bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them,
if they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two; but that if they
attempted their escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
usa e as to have provisions, and a light left them; for Friday gave them candles (such as we
made ourselves) for their comfort; an they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them
at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned, indeed, because
the captain was not free to trust them, but the other two were taken into my service upon their
captain’s recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so,
with them and the three honest men, we were seven men well armed, and I made no doubt we
should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into
the beach, and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to see;
for I was afraid they would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from
{he shore with some hands in her to guard her; and so we should not be able to seize the
oat.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
a great hole in her bottom. '
After they had mused awhile upon this, the set up two or three reat shouts, hallooing
with all their might, to try if they could make their companions hear; ut all was to no ur-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 19
we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one, those in the cave, we
were sure, could not hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know there, that the men were all
murdered, and the long-boat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched the boat again,
and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, believing they would go on
board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for lost, and so he s ould still lose
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frightened the other way.
They had not been long put ed with the boat, but we perceived them all coming on shore
again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they consulted together
upon, viz. to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a loss what to do; for our
seizing those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape;
because they would they row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh, and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good
distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill,
under which m habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us. W'g could have been very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we
120 77e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
a ma .
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way in the
valley and woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down to ether under a tree, to consider of it. Had
120 77e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to
slee , though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.
T e captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs, viz. that
120 77e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
we should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked the pro osal,
provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them, before they couldp load
their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to
take; at length I told them there would be nothing to be done in my opinion till night, and
120 77e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the boat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing, and were very uneasy;
when, after long consultations, we saw them start all up, and march down toward the sea.
It seems, the had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place, that
they resolve to go on board the shi a ain, give their companions over for lost, and so
go on with their intended voyage with t e s ip.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to be as it really was—that
they had given over their search, and were for going back again; and the captain, as soon
as Itold him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain’s mate to go over the little creek westward, towards
the place where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued; and as soon as they came
to a little rising ground at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen
answer them, they should return it again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, always
answering when the others hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed, and they presently
heard them, and answering run along the shore westward towards the voice they heard, when
they were resently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could not get over,
and called or the boat to come up, and set them over, as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone up a good way into
the creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land, the took one of the three men out of
her to go along with them, and left only two in the boat, aving fastened her to the stump of
a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the captain’s mate to their
business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the
two men before they were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other being in the boat;
the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start up, the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 121
upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides this was, it seems, one of the three that
were not so heart in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not onlyv to yield, ut afterwards to join very sincere with us.
In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate so well managed their business with the rest,
that they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another, and from one
wood to another, till they not only hea'tily tired them, but left them where they were very
sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and indeed they were heartily
tired themselves also by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to
make sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came back to their boat;
and we could hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling to those behind
to come along; and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not being able to come any faster, which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express their confusion, when
they found the boat fast aground in the creek. The tide ebbed out, and their two men gone.
We could hear them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were gotten into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and they
should all be murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in it, and they should be all carried
away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names a great many times, but
no answer. After some time we could see them, by the little light there was, run about wringing
their hands, like men in despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat
to rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about, and so over the same thing
again.
My men would fain have had me given them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark;
but I was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them
as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our own men, knowing
the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait to see if they did not separate; and there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain
to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as they could, that they might not
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 121
They had not been long in that posture but that the boatswain, who was the principal ring-
leader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the
rest, came walking towards them with two more of the crew. The captain was so eager, as
having this principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him; for they only heard his tongue before. But when they
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 121
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot into the body, and fell just
by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. '
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 121
C
men; viz. myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war, who we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not see our number; and I
made the man they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to
try if I could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which
fell out just as we desired. For indeed it was easy to think, as their condition then was,
they would be very willing to capitulate; so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them,
“ Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, “ Who’s that, Robinson? ”
For it seems he knew his voice. The other answered, “ Ay, ay, for God’s sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment.”
“Who must we yield to? Where are they?” sa s Smith again. “Here they are," says
122 Tim Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
The boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield,
you are all los .”
“Will they give us quarter, then?” says Tom Smith, “ and we will yield.” “I‘ll go and
ask if you promise to yield,” says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the captain
himself then calls out, “You, Smith, you know my voice, if on lay down your arms
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will At ins.
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, “ For God’s sake, captain, give me quarter. What have I
done? they have been all as bad as I" (which b the way was not true, neither; for it seems
122 Tim Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
and used him barbarously in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language). However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor’s
mercy, by which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives. And I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all ; and then my great army of
122 Tim Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
them all, and upon their boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of
state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing the ship; and, as for the
captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy
of their practices with him, and at length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
allows.
g They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told
them they were none of his prisoners, but the commander of the island; that they thought
they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct
them that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he
might hang them all there, if he pleased; but, as he had given them all quarter, be supposed
he would send them to En land, to be dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,
whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would
be hanged in the morning.
122 Tim Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
knees to beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his life, and all the rest begged
of him, for God’s sake, that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, and that it would be a
most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me. When I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again and say to the captain, “Captain, the commander calls for you;” and presently
the captain replied, “Tell his excellency lam just a-coming." This more perfectly amused them,
122 Tim Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
Upon the captain’s coming to me, I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked
wonderfuly well, and resolved to put it in execution the next morning.
 But, in order to execute it with more art, and secure of success, I told him we must divide
the prisoners, and that he should o and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of them, and
send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to Friday and the
two men who came on shore with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison, and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition.
The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have iven a full description;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enoug , considering they were
upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the ca tain, who was to enter into a parley with them: in a
word, to try them, and tell me whether e thou ht they might be trusted or no to go on board
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to; and that, though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to
the present action, yet that, if they were sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains,
to be sure ; but that, if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor’s engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted b men in their condition;
they fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with t e deepest imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to
him, and would o with him all over the world; that they would own him for a father to
them as long as t ey lived.
“ Well,” says the captain, “ I must go and tell the governor what you say, and see what I
can do to bring him to consent to it;” so he brought me an account of the temper he found
them in, and that he veril believed they would be faithful.
However, that we mig t be very secure, I told him he should go back again and choose
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in earnest. However, they
had no way left them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners, as muc
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :—1. The captain, his mate, and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
the captain, I had given their liberty and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two, who I
had kept till now in my bower pinioned; but, upon the captain’s motion, had now released. 4.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on board the ship; for, as
for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men
left behind, and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder and supply them with
victuals.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
to supply them with necessaries, and I made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
Where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain, who told them I was the
person the overnor had ordered to look after them, and that it was the governor’s pleasure
that they should not stir anywhere but by my direction; that, if they did, they should be
fetched into the castle and be laid in irons; so that, as we never suffered them to see me as
governor, so I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the
castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 123
one, and man them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four other men; and himself,
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the ship,
he made Robinson hail them, and tell them the had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found t em, and the like, holding them in a chat till
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the butt end of their muskets,
being very faithfully seconded by their men. They secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down who were below, when
the other boat and their men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship,
and the skuttle which went down into the cook-room, making the three men they found there
risoners. 
P When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate with three men
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, and, having taken the alarm,
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
and wounded the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the
men, but killed nobody. .
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was, and
with his pistol shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
came out again behind one of his ears; so that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
the signal a reed upon with me, to give me notice of his success ; which you may be sure
I was very gIa/d to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the clock in
the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of
great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a gun;
and presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of Governor, governor: and
presently I knew the captain’s voice, when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood,
and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. “ My dear friend and deliverer,” says
he, “there is your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her. I cast
my eyes to the shi , and there she rode within a little more than half a mile of the shore; for
they had weighed er anchor as soon as they were masters of her; and the weather being fair,
had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide being up,
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
landed just at my door. _
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
put into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me whither I pleased
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surp'ise, and immediately pulls a bottle out of his ocket, and gave me
a dram of cordial, which he brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down upon
the ground, and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a
word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as (great an ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise,
as I was; and he said a thousand kind ten er things to me, to compose me and bring me to
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
at last it broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told
him I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transac-
tion seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies we had
I 24 T lae Lzfe and A dveutures of Rooiusou Crusoe.
power could search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear
to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in such a wilderness,
and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be acknow-
ledged to proceed !
When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had brought me some little refresh-
ments, such as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches, that had been so long his masters,
had not plundered him of: upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring the
things ashore that were for the governor; and indeed it was a present, as if I had been one, not
that was to be carried along with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still, and
they were all to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of
Madeira wine; the bottles held two quarts a piece; two pound of excellent good tobacco, twelve
good pieces of the ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred
weight of biscuit.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 125
lime-juice, and abundance of other things: but besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of
gloves, one air of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his
own, which ad been worn but ve little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agrees, le present, as any one may imagine to one in my circum-
stances ; but never was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 125
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good things were brought into my little
apartment, we began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was
worth considering whether we might venture to take them away with us or no, especially two of
them, whom we knew to be incorri ible and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said
he knew they were such rogues, t at there was no obliging them; and if he did carry them
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 125
colony he could come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke
of, to make it their own request that he should leave them upon the island. “ I should be very
glad of that,” sa s the captain, “ with all my heart.”
“ Well,” said I: I will send for them u , and talk with them for you: so I caused Friday and
the two hostages, for they were now disc arged, their comrades having performed their promise;
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 125
bower, and keep them there till I came.
After some time, I came thither, dressed in my new habit, and now I was called governor
again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before me, and
I told them, I had had a full account of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they
had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther robberies; but that Pro-
vidence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they
had digged for others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had been seized, that she lay now in the
road, and they might see by-and-by, that their new. captain had received the reward of his villany;
for that they might see him hanging at the yard arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say, why I should not execute them as
pirates taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to say but this, “ That
when they were taken, the captain romised them their lives, and they humbly implored my
mercy; but I told them I knew not w at mercy to show them; for, as for myself, I had resolved
to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go for England:
and as for the captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as prisoners in irons
to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the consequence of which, they must
needs know, would be the gallows : so that I could not tell which was best for them, unless they
had a mind to take their fate in the island; if they desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty
to leave it; I had some inclination to give them their lives, if they thought they could shift on
shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said they would much rather venture to stay there,
than to be carried to England to be hanged: so I left it on that issue.
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
there: upon this I seemed to be a little angry with the captain, and told him, that they were
my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be as good
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
fpiund them : and if he did not like that, he might take them again, if he could catch
t em.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade
them retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I would leave them some
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship; but told the captain that I would stay that
night to prepare my things ; and desired him to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right
in the ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for me; ordering him, in the meantime,
to cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard arm, that these men might
see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my apartment, and entered
seriously into discourse with them of their circumstances. I told them, I thought they had
made a right choice; that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told them I would let them into
the story of my living there, and put them into the way of making it easy to them : accordingly
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
tions, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that
was necessary to make them easy. I told them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that
were to be expected; for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat them‘in common
with themselves. ~
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk
and fatten them, to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and I told them I would prevail with
the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-seeds, which I
told them I would have been very glad of; also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade t em to be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board the ship; we prepared
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
came swimming to the ship’s side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the other three,
begged to be taken into the ship, for God’s sake, for they should be murdered; and begged the
captain to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately.
126 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled ; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being up, with the things pro-
mised to the men, to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to
be added, which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by telling
them, that if it lay in my way to send a vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for reliques the great oat’s-skin cap I
had made, my umbrella, and m parrot: also I forgot not to take the money formerly men-
tioned, which had lain by me so ong useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, and could
hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled; as also the money I found
in the wreck of the Spanish ship. -
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of December, as I found by the ship’s account, in
the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
my escape in the Barco-longo, from among the Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England, the eleventh of June, in the year
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the world, as if I had never
been known there: my benefactor, and faithful steward, who I had left in trust with my money,
was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the second time,
and very low in the world. I made her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her, I would
give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to
me, I relieved her as my little stock would afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to
do but little for her: but I assured her, I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and my mother, and all
the family extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two of the children of one of my
brothers: and as I had been long a o given over for dead, there had been no provision made
for me, so that, in a word, I foun nothing to relieve or assist me; and that little money I
had, would not do much for me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect; and this was that the
master of the ship, who I had so happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship
and cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I had saved
the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them, and some other merchants
concerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a
present of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I
might not come by some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what
pasdbegome of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years now given me over
or ea .
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April following; my man
Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most faithful
servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my old
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
now grown old, and had left off the sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man,
into his ship ; and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and indeed,
I hardly knew him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself
to his remembrance when I told him who I was. '
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I inquired, you may be sure,
after my plantation, and my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for
about nine years; but that he could assure me,that when he came away my partner was living ;
but the trustees, whom I had joined with him, to take cognizance of my part, were both dead;
that, however, he believed that I would have a very good account of the improvement of the
lantation; for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds
T/ze Lzfe and Adz/altures of Robinson Crusoe. 127
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith: but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to
claim the inheritance, it should be restored; only that the improvement, or anuual roduction,
being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured me that t e steward
of the king’s revenue (from lands) and the provedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken
great care, all along, that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the plantation;
and whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither, I
should meet with no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved, but this he
knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one half of it! and
that, to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the king’s third of my part, which
was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery, or religious house, amounted to above
two hundred moidores a year; that, as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, m partner being alive to witness my title, and my name
being also enrolled in the re ister of t e country. Also he told me that the survivors of my
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm, w 'le their fathers held
the trust, and before it was given up as above, which, as he remembered, was for about
twelve years. '
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and inquired of the old captain
how it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose my effects, when he knew that I had
made my will, and had made him, the Portu ese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that, as t ere was no proof of my being dead, he could not
act as executor, until some certain account should come of my death; and that, besides he
was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote; that it was true he had registered my
will and put in his claim; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alive, he
would have acted by rocuration, and taken possession of the ingcnio (so they call the sugar-
house) and had given his son, who was now at the Brazils, order to do it.
“ But,” says the old man, “ I have one piece of news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so
acceptable to you as the, rest; and that is, that believing you were lost, and all the world
believing so also, your partner and trustees did offer to account to me in your name for six
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
“ great disbursements, for increasing the works, building an ingenio, and bu 'ng slaves, it did not
amount to near so much as afterwards it produced: however,” says the oili man, “I shall give
you a true account of what I have received in all, and how I have disposed of i .”
After a few days’ further conference with this ancient friend, he brought me an account of
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
being always delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
&c., which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that every year the
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
was small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me 470 moidores of gold,
besides 60 chests of sugar, and 15 double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having
been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to
make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship ;-—“ However,
my old friend,” says he, “ you shall not want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 160 Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writing of his title to the ship which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which
hfe gas a quarter part owner, and his son another, he put them both in my hands for security
0 t e rest.
I was too much moved with the honest and kindness of the poor man to be able to bear
this; and remembering what he had one for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and
how generously he had used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was
128 Ylze Lzfe and Adventures of Radius-an Crusoe.
him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it would


FRIDAY SHOOTING A \VOLF.
Page x33~
not straiten him? He told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little: but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.
Everything the good. man said was full of affection, and I could hardly refrain from tears
while he spoke. In short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to
give him a receipt for them; then I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had possession
of the lantation, I would return the other to him also, as indeed I afterwards did : and that, as
to the hill of sale of his part in his son’s ship, I would not take it by any means; but that
if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if I did not, but came
to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me if he should put me in a method to
make my claim to my plantation. I told him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I
might do so if I pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register, with his
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
This being re ularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed me to send it
with a letter of is writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed
my staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never anything was more honourable than the proceedings upon this proeuration; for in less
than seven months I received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants
for 1whi’ise account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters and papers
enc ose :— 
First, There was the account current of the roduce of my farm, or plantation, from the
year when their fathers had balanced with my o d Portugal captain, being for six years; the
balance appeared to be 1174- moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four ears more while they kept the effects in their
hands, before the government claimed the ministration, as being the effects of a person
not to be found, which they call Civil Death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to—cruisadoes, which made 3241 moidores.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
above fourteen years; but not being to account for what was dis osed to the hospital, very
honestly declared he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he ac nowledged to my account.
As to the king’s part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner’s, congratulating me very affectionately upon my bein
alive; giving me an account how the estate was im roved, and what it produced a year, wit
a particular of the number of squares, or acres, that it contained; how planted, how many
slaves there were upon it; and, makin two and twenty crosses for blessings, told me he had
said so many Ave Marias to thank t e blessed Virgin that I was alive, inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of my own, and in the mean time to give him
orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with a
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
leopards’ skins, which he had, it seems, received from .gfrica by some other s ip which he had
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
tobacco, and the rest o the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better than the beginning. It is
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
and especially w en I found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazils shi s come all in
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 129
in the river before t e letter came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick ; and
had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot.
I
“
Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a physician being sent for,
and something of the real cause of m illness being known, he ordered me to be bled, after
which I had relief, and grew well; butI verily believe, if it had not been eased by a vent given
in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above 5000!. sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above 10001. a year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how
to compose myself for the enjoyment of it.
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
end. I showed him all that was sent me; I told him that, next to the Providence of heaven
which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
received of him; then I sent for a notar , and caused him to draw up a general release or
discharge for the 470 moidores which e had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
clause in the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to him durin his life, out of the
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
0 man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head now
than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what I had,
and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my busi-
ness was how to secure it. I had never a cave to hide my money in, or a place w ere it
mi ht lie without lock or ke , till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body would meddle
wit it. On the contrary, I new not where to put it, or who to trust with it; my old patron,
the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I could
not tell how to think of going thither till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in some
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew,
might be in debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and, therefore, as I had
rewarded the old captain fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to
I 30 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further supply. At the same
time I sent my two sisters in the country each of them 1001,, they being, though not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one having been married, and left a widow; and the other
having a husband not so kind to her as he should be. '
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst
commit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind
me; and this greatly per lexed me.
I had once a mind to ave gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself there, for I was, as
it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some little scruple in my mind about religion, which
insensibly drew me back, of which I shall say more presently. However, it was not religion
that kept me from going there for the present; and as I had made no scruple of being openly
of the reli 'on of the country, all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; mly that
now and t en, having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to thin of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my having professed myself a Papist, and thought it
might not be the best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from going to the Brazils, but
that really I did not know with whom ,to leave my effects behind‘ me; so I resolved at lastto
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
some relations, that would be faithful to me; and accordingly I prepared to go for England
with all my wealth.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
resolved to give answers suitable to the Just and faithful account of thin s I had from thence.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
and the offer of the 872 moidores, which was undisposed of, which I desired might be given, 500
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the good Padre‘s
prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much
justice and honesty called for; as for sending them any present, they were far above having any
occasion for it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the improving the plantation,
and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works, iving him instructions for his future
government of my part, according to the powers I had eft with my old patron, to whom I de-
sired him to send whatever became due to me, till he should hear from me more particularly,
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him, but to settle myself there
for the remainder of my life. To this I added avery handsome present of some Italian silks for
his wife and two daughters, for such the captain’s son informed me he had; with two pieces
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects into good bills of
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to En land by sea at that time; and though
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be some of the reasons. But
let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two of
the ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean more particularly singled out than any other,
that is to say, so as in one of them to put my things on board, and in the other to have
agreed with the captain; I say two of these ships miscarried, viz., one was taken b the Alge-
rine, and the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the peop e drowned,
except three. So that in either of those vessels I had been made miserable, and in which most
it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I communicated every-
thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea; but either to go by land to the Groyne, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by
land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land
through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to
Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in haste, and did
not value the charge, was by much the leasanter way; and to make it more so, my old
captain brought an English gentleman, t e son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing
to travel with me. After which, we picked up two more En lish merchants also, and two
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we were in all six of us, and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 31
servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with
me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying
the place of a servant on the road. 2
1
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being all very well mounted and
armed, we made a little troop, whereof the did me the honour to call me captain, as well
because I was the oldest man, as because had two servants, and indeed was the original of
the whole journey.
As 1 have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some
time to see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth observing ; but it being the latter part
of the summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of October. But
when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns on the way with an
account that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme
hazard, to pass on. '
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me that had been always
used to a hot climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear any clothes on, the
cold was insufferable; nor indeed was it more painful than it was surprising, to come but ten
days before out of the Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and
immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold as to
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with snow, and
felt cold weat er, which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna, it continued snowing with so much
violence, and so long that the people said winter was come before its time: and the roads,
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
too thick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood
of its being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man), I {Imposed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take
shipping for Bordeaux, w 'ch was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who, havin
been stop ed on the French side of the passes, as we were on the S anish, had foun
out a gm e, who traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over
the mountains by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with the snow; and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear
them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us the same way, with no
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
beasts; for he said, upon these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show them-
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves which we were told we were in
most danger from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back
again.
1 32 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he came directly back with us, on
the same road that we came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having passed two rivers,
and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no snow to be seen ; but on a sudden, turning to his lleft, he approached the
mountains another way; and though it is true, the hills and the precipices looked dreadful, yet
he made so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding wa s, we insensibly passed
the hei ht of the mountains, without being much incumbered with t e snow; and all on a
sudden e showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne, all green and
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole day and a night, so
fast, that we could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more north than before; and so,
depending upon our uide, we went on.
It was about two ours before night, when our guide being something before us, and not
just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way,
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
before us, he had been devoured indeed, before we could have helped him: one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that violence that he had not time, or
not presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon
as Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, “ 0, master! 0,
master! ” But, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot
the wolf that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for he, havin been used to that
kind of creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but went close up to 'm, and shot him
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
pany, when, with the noise of Friday’s pistol, we heard on both sides the dismallest howlin of
wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there ad
been a prodigious multitude of them; and perhaps indeed there was not such a few, as that we
had no cause of ap rehensions.
However, as Fi’i a had killed this wolf, the other, that had fastened upon the horse, left him
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt: the man, indeed, was most hurt;
for the raging creature had hit him twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little above
his knee; and he was just, as it were, tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday
came up, and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday’s pistols we all mended our pace, and rode
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
as soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly what had been
the case, and how Friday had disen a ed the poor guide; though we di not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had iil ed.
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable; as the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and
does not gallo as the wolf does, who is swift and light; so he has two particular qualities,
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
not his proper prey, because, though I cannot say what excessive hunger might do, which was
now their case, the ground being all covered with snow; yet as to men, he does not usuall
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with you; yet t en you must take care to be
very civil to him, and give him the road; for he is a very nice gentleman; he will not go a step
out of the way for a prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to look another way,
and keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he
takes it for an affront; and if you throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits him, though it
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
Y ’/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 3
quality: the next is, that if he be once affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, till he
has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him, he was helping him
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw : we were all a little surprised when we saw him ;
but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow’s countenance: “ Oh! ‘
Oh! Oh !” says Friday, three times, pointing to him, “ 0, master! you give me te leave, me
shakee te hand with him, me make you good laugh.”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased, “ You fool, you,” says I, “he will eat you up.”
“ Eatec me up ! eatee me up! ” says Friday, twice over again: “ Me eatee him up; me make you
good laugh; you all stay here, me show you good laugh: ” so down he sits, and gets his boots
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
t e win . -
The bear was walkin softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty
near, calls to him, as i the bear could understand him: “ Hark,‘ ye! hark ye," says Friday,
“ me speakee wit you.” We followed ata distance; for now, being come down on the Gascoigne
side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest, where the country was plain, and
pretty open, though many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came u with him quickly, and takes up
a great stone, and throws at him, and it hit him just on the liead; but did him no more harm
than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday’s end; for the rogue was so
void of fear, that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he
ca led it.
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
gallop: awa runs Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help; so we all
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
for bringing the hear back upon us, when he was going about his own business another way;
and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run away; and I called
out “ You dog,” said I, “is this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that
we may shoot the creature.” He hears me, and cries out, “No shoot, no shoot, stand still,
you get much laugh ; ” and, as the nimble creature ran two foot for the beast’s one, he turned
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
I34 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsou Crusoe.
stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like
a cat, though so monstrously heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man,
and could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear get up the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end of a large limb of the
tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where
the limb of the tree was weaker,“ Ha!” says he to us, “now you see me teachee the bear
dance ;” so he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should get back; then indeed we did
laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a great deal: when he sees him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, “What,
you come no further? Pray, you come further.” So he left jumping and shaking the tree;
and the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a little further; then he fell a
jum ing again, and the bear stopped again.
w‘; thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and I called to Friday to stand
still and we would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, “ O pray! O pray! no shoot.
me shoot by and then;” he would have said “by and b .” However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, t at we had laughing enough indeed,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
shaking the bear off, and we found the bear was too cunning for that too, for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws and
feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at
ast.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear cling fast to the bough, and
that he could not be persuaded to come any farther, “ Well, well,” says Friday, “ you no come
farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me go come to you;” and upon this he goes out to
the smallest end of the bough, where it would bend with his weight, and gently lets himself
down by it, sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and
away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
“Well,” said I to him, “Friday, what will you do now? Why don’t you shoot him?”
“No shoot,” says Friday, “ no yet; me shoot now me no kill; me stay give you one more
laugh ;” and indeed so he did, as you will see presently ; for, when the bear sees hiS enem gone,
he comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the body of the tree; then, with the same
hinder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at
a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet upon the
ground, Friday stepped close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him
as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh, and, when he saw we were pleased
by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud. “ So we kill bear in my country,” says
Friday. “ So you kill them," said I; “ why, you have no guns.” “No,” says he, “no gun,
but shoot great much long arrow.”
This was indeed a good diversion to us, but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew. The howling of wolves run much in my head;
and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as Friday would have had
us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth
saving; but we had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him and went
forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and dangerous as on the
mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down into the
forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a great many of their
sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, which, our guide told us, if there were any more
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
the wood, and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
the road, full 8 eed one after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in
view; they too no notice of us, and were gone and out of our sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched, faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a
ready osture, for he believed there were more wolves a coming.
We e 1: our arms ready, and our eyes about us, but we saw no more wolves till we came
through t at wood, which was near half a league, and entered the plain; as soon as we came
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 3 5
dead horse; that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of!
them at work—we could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones rather, for they had
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
were ike to have more business upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not gone
half over the plain but we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful
manner; and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I scarce knew in what manner to receive them; but found to draw ourselves in a close line
was the only way; so we formed in a moment; but, that we might not have too much interval
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
stand read to ive them a second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon us;
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
stand ready, with every one a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a pair of pistols
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
head, dropped, several others were wounded, and went bleedin off, as we could see by the
snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat, w ereupon remembering that I
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
our company to halloo as loud as we could, and I found the notion not altogether mistaken, for
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This ave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we might lose no time we kept
going; nt we had but little more than loaded our fusils, and put ourselves into a readiness,
when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood, on our left; only that it was further onward
the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made it the worse on
our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howling and
yelling of those hellish creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves
on our left, one behind us, and one on our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them;
however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our
horses go, which, the way being very rough, was only a good large trot; and in this manner
we came in view of the entrance of a wood through which we were to pass, at the farther side
of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when, coming nearer the lane, or pass, we saw a
confused number of wolves standing ’ust at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and, looking that
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
seventeen wolves after him full speed; indeed, the horse had the heels of them; but as we
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with
him at last; and no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the entrance where the horse
came out, we found the carease of another horse, and of two men devoured by the ravenous
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
eaten up.
i36 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
us soon, for they athered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there
were three hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance
into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees, which had been cut
down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage; I drew my little troo in
among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them alll to
alight, and keeping that tree before us, for a breas'twork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did, for never was a more furious charge than the creatures
made upon us in the lace; they came on us with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber (whic , as I said, was our breast-work), as if they were only rushing upon
their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
every other man, and they took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
devils, those behind pushing on those before.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
hoped they would have gone off, but it was but amoment, for others came forward again ; so we
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet they came on again.
I was loth to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for
he was better employed—for, with the greatest dexterit imaginable, he had charged m fusil
and his own while we were engaged—but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving {'im a
horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train.
He did so, and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
Those that were upon the timber were scorched wit it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
and the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night, for now it was very near dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, who we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with our swords, which
answered our expectation; for the crying and howling they made were better understood
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
still near a league to go; we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went,
several times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our e es,
we were not certain; so in about an hour more we came to the town where we were to 1o ge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems that, the night before, the
wolves and some bears had broken into the village in the night, and put them in a terrible
fright; and they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but especially in the night, to
preserve their cattle, and, indeed, their people.
The next morning our guide was so i l, and his limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no further; so we were obliged to take a new guide there, and go to
Thoulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, or anything like them; but when we told our story at Thoulouse, they told us it was
nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially when
the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten, that
would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and told us it was a great chance
we were not all devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
rey, and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun, but the being excessive
ungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had made them
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that we
had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horseback, and
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 37
were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at last if we had stood
altogether, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that
138 2721: Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusua.
many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for, seeing above three hundred
devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or
retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross
those mountains again. I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I
were sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through France; nothing but
what other travellers have given an account of, with much more advantage than I can. I
travelled from Thoulouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay, came to Calais, and
landeld safe at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having had a severe cold season to
have in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little time all my new discovered
estaite safe about me, the bills of exchange, which I brought with me, having been very currently
pal .
My princi al guide and privy councillor was my good ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the
money I ha sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to employ for me; and I
trusted her so entirely with everythin , that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my
effects; and indeed I was very happy From my beginmng, and now to the end, in the unspotted
integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon,
and so to the Brazils: but now another scruple came in the way, and that was religion; for as
I had entertained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad, especially
in my state of solitude; so I knew there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less going
to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve;
138 2721: Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusua.
138 2721: Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusua.
dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in return gave me notice that he
138 2721: Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusua.
name to t e two merchants, the survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brazils, who must
full understand the value of it, who lived just upon the spot, and who I knew were very rich,
so t at he believed they would be fond of buying it; he did not doubt, but I should make 4000
or 5000 pieces of eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to them, and he did so; and in about eight
months more, the ship bein then returned, he sent me account that they had accepted the
offer, and had remitted 33,300 pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay
for it.
In return I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent
it to my old man, who sent me bills of exchange for 32,800 ieces of eight for the estate;
reserving the payment of 100 moidores a year to him (the old man) during his life. and 50
moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I had promised them; which the plantation
138 2721: Lzfe and Adz/entures of Robinson Crusua.
and adventure, a life of Providence’s chequer-work, and of a variety which the world will seldom
be able to show the like of: beginnin foolishly, but closing much more happily than any part
of it ever gave me leave so much as to ope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of com licated good fortune, I was past runnin any
more hazards, and so indeed I had been, if ot er circumstances had concurred: but was
nured to a wandering life, had no family, not many relations; nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not
keep the country out of my head, and had a great mind to be on the wing again; especially I
could not reist the strong inclination 1 had to see m island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there, and how the rogues I left t ere had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that
almost for seven years she prevented my running abroad; during which time I took my two
nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having something of his
own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
sensible, bold, ente rising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea; and
this young fellow a terwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures m self.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
to my disadvantage or ’ satisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one daughter: but
my wife dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyageto Spain, my
inclination to go abroad, and his importuuity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as
a private trader to the East Indies. This was in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my successors the Spaniards, had
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
oor Spaniards, how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
paniards were obliged to use violence with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and
wonderful accidents as my own art; particularly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans,
who landed several times upon t e island, and as to the improvement they made upon the island
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies of all necessary things, and particularly
of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought from England with me;
viz. a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them, reserved to myself the propert of the
whole, but gave them such parts, res ectively, as the a eed on; and aving settled all things
with them, and engaged them not to cave the place, Ilea- them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, which I bought there, with
more people, to the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven women, being such as
I found roper for service, or for wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen, I
promised) them to send them some women from England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if
they would apply themselves to lanting; which I afterwards performed : and the fellows proved
very honest and diligent, after t ey were mastered, and had t eir properties set apart for them.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
some hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how 300 Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Cmsoe. I 39
and ‘Lgree of them killed ; but at last a storm destroying their enemies’ canoes, they famished
or destroyed all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation, and
still lived upon the island.
All these thin , with some very surprising incidents in some new adventures of my own, for
ten years more, may, perhaps, give a farther account of hereafter.
FARTHER ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON GBUSOE.
a‘
PREFACE.
THE success the former part of this Work has met with in the world, has yet been no other than
is acknowledged to be due to the surprising variety of the subject, and to the agreeable manner
of the performance. '
All the endeavours of envious people to reproach it with being a romance, to search it for
errors in geography, inconsistency in the relation, and contradictions in the fact, have proved
abortive, and as impotent as malicious. ,
The just application of every incident, the religious and useful inferences drawn from every
part, are so many testimonies to the good design of making it public, and must legitimate all
the part that may be called invention or parable in the story.
The Second Part, if the Editor’s opinion may pass, is (contrary to the usage of Second
Parts) every way as entertaining as the First, contains as strange and surprising incidents,
and as great a variety of them; nor is the application less serious or suitable; and doubtless
PREFACE.
this makes theabridgiug this Work as scandalous as it is knavish and ridiculous. Seeing,
while to shorten the Book, that they may seem to reduce the value, they strip it of all those
PREFACE.
PREFACE.
By this they leave the Work naked of its brightest ornaments; and if they would, at the’same
time pretend, that the Author has supplied the story out of his invention, they take from it the
improvement which alone recommends that invention to wise and good men.
The injury these men do the Proprietor of this Work, is a practice all honest men abhor;
and he believes he may challenge them to show the difference between that and robbing on the
highway, or breaking open a house.
PREFACE.
should be any difference in the punishment: and he will answer for it, that nothing shall be
wanting on his part to do them justice.
FARTHER ADVEN TURE S
O]?
ROBINSON OBUSOE.

THAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in England, viz., That what is bred in the
THE
THE
which few men, if any, ever went through before, and after near seven years of peace and enjoy-
ment in the fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to
have had experience of every state of middle life, and to know which was most adapted to make
a man completely happy ; Say, after all this, any one would have thought that the native
THE
have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile art be fully
evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might at sixty-one years of age have been a 'ttle inclined
to stay at home, and have done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of forei n adventures was taken away in me; for I had no
fortune to make, I had nothing to seek; if IIiad gained 10,000L, I had been no richer; for I had
already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was visibly increasing;
for having no great family, I could not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up
for an expensive way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like,
which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to; so that 1 had nothing indeed to do but
to sit still, and fully en’oy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things ad no effect upon me, or at least not enough to resist the strong inclina-
tion I had to go abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical distemper; particularly
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in
my head continual y. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination run upon it all day; it
was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon it,
that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind; it even
broke so violently into all my discourses, that it made my conversation tiresome; for I could talk
of nothing else, all m discourse run into it, even to impertinence, and I saw it m self.
I have often heart? persons of good judgment say, that all the stir peo le m e in the world
about ghosts and apparitions is owmg to the strength of imagination, and t e powerful operation
of fancy in their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking,
and the like; that people’s poring affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends so realizes it to them, 1: at they are capable of fancying upon some extraordinary
circumstances that they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them, when in truth, there
is nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing; and they really know nothing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour, whether there are any such things as real apparitions,
spectres, or walking of people, after they are dead, or whether there is anything in the stories
K
they tell us of that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and wandering fancies.
But this I know, that my imagination worked up to such a height, and brought me into such
ecstasies of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon
the spot, at my old castle behind the trees, saw my old Spaniard, Friday’s father, and the
reprobate sailors whom I left upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked at
them so steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this I did
till I often frightened myself with the images my fancy represented to me; one time in my sleep
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
Friday’s father, that it was surprising; they told me how they barbarously attempted to
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
to distress and starve them, things that I had never heard of, and that, indeed, were never all
of them true in fact; but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realized to me, that to
the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was or would be true; also how I
resented it when the Spaniard complained to me, and how I brought them to ustice, tried
them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged: what there was really in this, shall
be seen in its place; for however I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was very much of it true. I say, I own, that this
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
villanous behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse than
all I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
wards have unished them severely, so if I had han ed them all, I had been much in the right,
and should ave been justifiable both by the laws o% God and man.
But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I had lived some years; I had no enjoy-
ment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion but what had something or other of
this in it, so that my wife, who saw my mind so wholl bent upon it, told me very seriously one
night, that she believed there was some secret powe ul impulse of Providence upon me, which
had determined me to go thither a ain ; and that she found nothing hindered my going but my
being engaged to a wife and chil ren. She told me, that it was true she could not think of
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
would do; so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined above, she would not be the
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
her words, and that I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a little disordered her, and she
stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out what she was going to say ? But
I perceived her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes. “ Speak out, my
dear,” said I, “ are you willing I should go ?” “No,” says she, very affectionately, “I am far from
willing; but if you are resolved to o," says she, “ and rather than I will be the only hindrance,
I will go with you; for though I t ink it a preposterous thing for one of your years, and in
your condition, yet if it must be,” said she again, weeping, “ I won’t leave you; for if it be of
Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it; and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, He
will also make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it.”
This affectionate behaviour of my wife’s brought me a little out of the vapours, and I began
to consider what I was doing; I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with
myself sedately, what business I had, after threescore years, and after such a life of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner, I say, what business I had
146 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
run into
With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement; that I had a wife, one child born,
and my wife then great with child of another; that I had all the world could give me, and had
no need to seek hazards for gain; that I was declining in years, and ought to think rather of
leaving what I had gained than of seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had said,
of its being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be‘my duty to go, I had no notion
of that; so after many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my imagination,
reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in
aword, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments 'as occurred to my thoughts,
effectual meth , I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to en age in some business
that might e ectually tie me up from any more excursions of this ind; for I found the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself
thither. I had a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it I found was capable
of great improvement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted in
cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of land; and particularly, being an inland
country, I was removed from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the
remote part of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart,
Waggon, horses, cows, sheep; and setting seriously to work, became in one half year, a mere
country gentleman; my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating
the ground, enclosing, planting, &c., and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature
was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of being
retreated to.
I farmed upon m own land, I had no rent to pay, was limited by no articles, I could pull
up or cut down as pleased: what I planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my
family; and having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in
any part of my life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state
of life that my father so early recommended to me, a kind of heavenly life, something like
what is described by the poet upon the subject of a country life :—
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
“ Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.”
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen Providence unhinged me at
once; and not only made a breach u on me, inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its
consequence, into a deep relapse into t e wandering disposition; which, as I may say, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent
distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me; so that nothing could make any more
impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, to give a character of her
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
was, in a few words, the stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that
by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
genius, t an a mother’s tears, a father’s instructions, a friend’s counsel, or all my own reasoning
powers could do. I was happy in listening to her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties,
and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I was as much a stran er in it,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
exce t as to the assistance of servants, as’ _I was in my island. I knew neither what to do,
or w at not to do. I saw the world busy round me, one part labouring for bread, and the other
part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, equally miserable, because the end
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 147
an heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and the men of labour spent their
strength in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured with;
so living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work. and working but to live, as if
daily Ereag were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of
dail rea .
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island: where I suffered no
more corn to grow because I did not want it; aléd bred no more goats, because I had no more
K
use for them: where the money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twent years. ‘
All these things, had I improve them as I ought to have done, and as reason and religion
had dictated to me, would have taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full ’
felicity, and that there was something which certainly was the reason and end of life, superior
to all these things, and which was either to he possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the
rave.
g But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot, that could only run before
the wind; my thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my head was quite turned with
"  the whimsies of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant innocent amusements of my farm and
my garden, my cattle, and my family, which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no car, or food to one that has no taste. In
a word, I resolved to leave off house-keeping, let my farm, and return to London: and in a few
months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I had no relish to the place,
no em 1o ment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle erson, of whom it may
be sai , e is perfectly useless in God’s creation, and it is not one fart ing matter to the rest
of his kind, whether he be dead or alive. This also was the life which of all circumstances of
life was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself, “ A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;” and, indeed, I
{)hought I was much more suitably employed, when I was twenty-six days a making me a deal
oard.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, who, as I have observed before,
I had brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of a ship, was come home from
148 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East
Indies and to China as private traders; “ And now, uncle,” says he, “if you will go to sea with
me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the
Brazils.”
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of the existence of an invisible
world, than the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of things which we form in our
minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world.
My ne hew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was returned upon me, and I
knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to say, when that very morning before he came
to me I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circum-
stances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz. That I would go to Lisbon, and consult with
my old sea captain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would go and see the island
again, and see what was become of my people there. I had pleased myself with the thoughts
of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the ossession,
and I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I ave said,
with his project of carrying me thither, in his way to the East Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at him, “What devil,” said I, “sent
148 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
perceiving I was not much displeased with the pro osal, he recovered himself. “I hope it
may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; “ dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.”
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the repossession l
was under, and of which I have said so much, that I told him in few words, if e agreed with
the merchants I would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any further
than my own island. “ Why, sir,” says he, “ you don’t want to be left there again, I hope ? ”
“ Why,” said I, “ can you not take me up again on your return?” He told me it could not be
possible that the merchants would allow him to come that way with a loaden ship of such
value, it being a month’s sail out of his way, and might be three or four. “Besides, sir, if
I should miscarry,” said he, “ and not return at all, then you would be just reduced to the
condition you were in before.”
This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it, which was to carry a
‘framed sloop on board the ship, which, being taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship,
might by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of my nephew joined in so effectually
with my inclination, that nothing could op ose me. On the other hand, my wife being dead, I
had nobody concerned themselves so much fIdr me, as to persuade me one way or other, except
my ancient good friend the widow, who earnestl struggled with me to consider my years, my
easy circumstances, and the needless hazard of a ong voyage, and above all, my young children.
But it was all to no pu ose, I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; and Itold her I
thought there was somet 'ng so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for the
voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home.
After which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision
for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my absence, and providing for the
education of my children.
In orderto this, I made m will, and settled the estate I hadin such a manner for my
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
justice done t em whatever might befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly to my
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
for no mother could have taken more care in their education, or understand it better; and as
she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. 
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January 1694-5, and I with my man
Friday went on board in the Downs the 8th, having besides that sloop which I mentioned above,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
in good condition, I resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place there, as inhabitants, or
at least to set on work there upon my own account, while I stayed, and either to leave them
there, or carry them forward, as they should appear willing; particularly, I carried two car-
penters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious fellow who was a cooper by trade, but was also
a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn,
was a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything that was proper to make of
earth, or of wood; in a word we called him our Jack of all trades.
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go passenger to the East Indies
with my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation, and proved a most
necessary handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of this
trade; for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have not kept an account of the particulars, con-
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
supply them for seven years ; if I remember right, the materials which I carried for clothing
them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above 2001., including some beds, bedding, and household-stuff, particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c., and near a 100 pound more in
iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could
think of.
I carried also 100 spare arms, muskets, and fusees, besides some pistols, a considerable quan-
tity of shot of all sizes, and two pieces‘ of brass cannon ; and because I knew not what time
and what extremities I was providing for, I carried 100 barrels of powder, besides swords,
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts; so, that, in short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of stores; and 1 made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns
more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, if there was occasion; that when they came
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I49
thought there would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our
possession of the island, as shall be seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet with; and, therefore,
' shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear
how matters went with my colony; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather hap-
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
attended me; and that I was born to he never contented with being on shore, and yet to be
always unfortunate at sea.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that
while we lay here we never touched the ship’s stores, but rather added to them; here also I
took in several live hogs, and two cows, and calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage,
to put on shore in my island ; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very fair gale of wind for some days.
As I remember, it might be about the 20th of February, in the evenin late, when the mate
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
‘another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for a while we heard nothing,
e
but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was some very terrib
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
our hearing the noise of guns just before, we concluded it could not be far off, we stood directly
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
geater the light ap eared, t ough the weather being hazy we could not erceive anything but
e light for a wh’ e; in about half an hour’s sailing, the wind being ’air for us, though not
much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a great
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all acquainted with the persons
engaged in it; I presently recollected my former circumstances, in what condition I was in
when taken up by the Portugal captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had no other ship in company with
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand, and that
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove, waiting for daylight;
when on a sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
’boat in the middle of the ocean, which at resent, b reason it was dark, I could not see; how-
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 50 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
letting them know by this, that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o’clock in the morning, we discovered the ship’s boats, by the help of our per-
spective glasses; found there were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water; we perceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our ship, and did
their utmost to make‘us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw them ; and hung a waft out,
as a signal for them to come on board; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In a little more than half an hour, we came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole we found it was a French merchant-ship of 300 ton, homeward-bound from
Quebec, in the river of Canada. '
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
steerage by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
in between the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to their great comfort, were
pretty large; being their long boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no
great service to them, other than to get some fresh water and provisions into her, after they
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
into these boats at that distance ‘from any land; only, as they said well, that they were escaped
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparing to make the best of their
way back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty fair; for it blew an easy gale at S.E
by E. They had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might sup ort them about twelve days; in which, if they had no bad weather, and
no contra winds, t e captain said, he hoped he might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
many chances against them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and founder them;
rains and cold to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them; that it must have been next to miraculous if they had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, and ready to des air, the captain
with tears in his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprised with the joy o hearing a gun
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired
it should, viz. that there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns that they took down their masts and sails; the sound
coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, the were still more agreeably surprised with seeing our lights,
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
set them to work with their oars to keep their boats a-head, at least that we might the sooner
come up with them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange ecstasies, the variety of
postures, which these poor delivered people run into, to express the joy of their souls at so
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and a very
few motions of the head and hands, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy, a
surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it; there were some in tears, some raging and
tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest agony of sorrow; some stark raving and
downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their
hands ; some were dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying; many quite dumb, not
able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting, several swooning and ready to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that were thankful afterward; but
T 1l1: Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/won Crusoe. I 5 I
thrown into ecstasies and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that were composed and
serious in their joy.
Perhaps the case may have some addition to it, from the particular circumstance of that
nation they belonged to; I mean the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
152 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen before came up to
it : the ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father in the boat,
came the nearest to it; and the surprise of the master, and his two companions, whom I deli-
vered from the villains that set them on shore in the island, came a little way towards it; but
nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday or anywhere else in my life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show themselves in that different
manner I have mentioned, in different persons only: but all the variety would appear in a
short succession of moments, in one and the same person. A. man that we saw this minute
dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded, should the next minute be dancing and hallooing
like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to ieces, and
stamping them under his feet like a madman; a few moments after that, we should have him
all in tears, then sick, then swoomng; and had not immediate help been had, would in a few
moments more have been dead; and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with
the greatest part of them: and, if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above thirty
of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the other a young man; and that
which was strangest was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone-
dead, to all appearance; not the least sign of life could be perceived in him; our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him; and was the only man in the ship that
152 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible: upon this the blood, which only dropped
152 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
a quarter of an hour after that, he spoke, grew better, and quite well: after the blood was
stopped he walked about, told us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the sur-
geon gave him, and was what we call come to himself; about a quarter of an hour after, they
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French woman that had
fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the
change of his circumstance, and again this put him into an ecstasy of joy; his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them; the blood grew hot and feverish; and. the
152 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
him again inthat condition, but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep, which, after
some time, operated upon him, and he waked the next morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions, and was really an example
152 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
on his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance; in which I unhappil and
unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in a swoon; but he spake calmly;
thanked me; told me he was giving God thanks for hi deliverance; begged me to leave him a
few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also.
I was hea'tily sorry that I disturbed him; and not only left him, but kept others from
interrupting him also; he continued in that posture about three minutes, or a little more, after
I left him; then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness and
affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given him and so many
miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no room to move him to thank God for it,
rather than me; but I added that it was nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all
men, and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far
as to make us the instruments of His mercy to so many of His creatures.
After this the young priest applied himself to his count folks; laboured to compose them;
persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did is utmost to keep them within the
exercise of their reason; and with some he had success, though others were, for a time, out of
all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perha s it may be useful to those into whose
hands it may fall, for the guiding themselves in all the extravagances of their passions; for
, FRIDAY MEETS HIS FATHER AGAIN.


Page i58.

'1-
if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, what
will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to ? And indeed, here
I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of
joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
day; but when they had been retired, lodgings provided for them as well as our ship would
allilow, and1 they had slept heartily, as most of them did, they were quite another sort of people
t e next a .
Nothing yof good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them, was
wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally apt enou h to exceed that way. The captain,
and one of the priests, came to me the next day; and esiring to speak with me and my
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
they told us, that, as we had saved their lives, so all we had was little enough for a return to
us for that kindness received. The captain said, they had saved some money and some things
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
were ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, where, if possible, they might get passage to France.
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
them afterwards; but I overruled him in that part; for I knew what it was to be set on
shore in a stran e country; and if the Portugal captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a slave
at the Brazils, as I had been in Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps
a Portuguese is not much a better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken them up in their distress, it was true;
but that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be
so delivered, if we were in the like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them,
but what we believed they would have done for us if we had been in their case, and they in
ours; but that we took them up to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and then abandon them to starving; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I told
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great way, and
perhaps was directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us
wilfully to change our voyage on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-party to pursue his voya e by the
way of Brazils; and all Iknew he could do for them was, to put ourselves in the way o meeting
with other ships homeward-bound from the West Indies, and get them passage, if possible,
to England or France.
T/ze Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 3
for it: but they were in very great consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of
being carried away to the East Indies: and they then entreated me, that seeing I was driven
so far to the westward before I met with them, 1 would at least keep on the same course to the
banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop that they
might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part; and therefore I inclined to
agree to it: for indeed I considered, that to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would
not only be an intolerable severity upon the oor people, but would be ruining our whole
voyage by devouring all our provisions ; so I) thought it no breach of charter-party, but
what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us; and in which no one could say
we were to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that we should refuse
to take up two boats full of people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of the thing,
as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind
' and weather would permit; and if not, that I would carry themto Martinico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and as the winds had con-
tinued in the points between N.E. and SE. a long time, we missed several opportunities of
sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two were French,
from St. Christopher’s; but they had been so long beating.up against the wind, that they durst
take in no passengers for fear of wanting rovisions for the voyage, as well for themselves as
for those they should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a week after this,
that we made the banks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten m story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and afterwards
to carry them to France, if they could get provision to victual themselves with: when, I say,
all the French went on shore, I should remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing
we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to he set on shore on
the coast of Goromandel, which I readily agreed to : for I wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the seamen entered themselves in our
ship, and proved very useful fellows. '
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering away S. and S. by E.
for about twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we met with another
subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course SE. and by S. We soon perceived it was a large vessel,
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-to mast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
gale, and we soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes, but had been blown out of
the road at Barbadoes, a few days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and‘chief mate were both gone on shore; so that beside the terror of the storm,
they were but in an indifferent case for good artists to bring the ship home: they had been
already nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm after the hurricane was
over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in which they
lost their masts as above; they told us, they ex ected to have seen the Bahama islands, but
were then driven away again to the south-east y a strong gale of wind at N .N.W. the same
that blew now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a main course, and a kind of
square sail upon a jury fore-mast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind,
but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved for want of provisions,
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ounce left in the ship, and had had none for eleven days; the only relief they had, was, their
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
I 54 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board, who were going passen-
gers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before
the hurricane be an; and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more deplorable
condition than t e rest; for the seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves,
had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers ; and they were indeed in a condition
that their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me, the weather being fair,
and the wind abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, who upon this occasion com-
manded the ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me indeed, they had three pas-
sengers in the cat cabin, that they were in a deplorable condition: “Nay,” says he, “I
believe they are ead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days ; and I was afraid to
inquire after them,” said he, “ for I had nothing to relieve them with.”
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could spare; and indeed I had
so far over-ruled things with my nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had
gone away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but
there was no necessity for that. '
But now they were in a new danger; for the were afraid of eating too much, even of that
little we gave them : the mate or commander brought six men with him in his boat: but these
poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly sit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing from the
men, and went share and share alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immediately, and he had not eaten
three mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our
surgeon mixed him up something with some broth, which he said would be to him both food and
physic; and after he had taken it, he grew better; in the mean time I for ot not the men;
ordered victuals to be given them, and the oor creatures rather devoure than eat it: they
were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a ind ravenous, and had no command of them-
selves; and two of them eat with so much greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next morning.
The sight of these peo le’s distress was very moving to me, and brought to mind what
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 5
mouthful of food), or any prospect of procuring any; besides the hourly apprehensionIhad of
being made the food of other creatures. But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the
miserable condition of the ship’s company, I could not put out of my thought the story he had
told me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin; (viz.) the mother, her son, and the
maid-servant, who he had heard nothing of for two or three days; and who he seemed to
confess they had wholly ne lected, their own extremities being so great; by which I understood,
that they had really given t em no food at all; and that therefore they must be perished, and be
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 5
As I therefore kept the mate, who we then called captain, on board with his men to refresh
them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but ordered to own boat
to go on board the ship, and with m mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 5
boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to (prevent the men taking it to
eat raw. or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, an then to give every man but
a very little at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have
killed themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to o into the great cabin, and see what condition
the poor passengers were in, and if they were a ive,to comfort them and give them what refresh-
ment was proper; and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and which he did not question would restore
them gradually.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 5
misery which I knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more lively manner than
I could have it b re ort, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a litt e a ter in their boat. _
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the victuals out of the boiler
before it was ready; but m mate observed his order, and kept a good guard at the cook-
room door; and the man he placed there, after using all possible ersuasion to have
patience, kept them off b force. However, he caused some iscuit ca es to be dipped in
the pot, and softened wit the liquor of the meat, which the call _brewis, and gave them
every one one, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was or their own safety, that he
was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all in vain, and had I not
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 5 5
some threats also of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken mto the cook-room
by force, and tore the meat out of the furnace, for words are indeed of very small force to a
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature, and far beyond
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
sevenldalys, it might be said, they had really had no food at all, and for several days before
very itt e.
The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a woman of good sense, and good breeding,
had spared all she could get so affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
against the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between
her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. M mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into er mouth. She opened her lips, and
lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made signs to
him, intimating that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said
they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some
of the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question
whether he could be sure of it or not. But it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate mother’s life, was not so
far gone; yet he lay in a cabin-bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it; however, being
young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate got something down his throat,
and e began sensibly to revive, though, by giving him some time after but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all along upon the deck hard by her mistress,
and just like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs
were distorted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she griped it so
hard that we could not easily make her let go; her other arm lay over her head, and her feet
lay both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in short, she lay just like one in
the last agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was brokenhearted for her mistress, who s e saw
dying two or three days before, and who she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man of very
great knowledge and experience, and with great application recovered her as to life, he had her
upon his hand as to her senses, for she was little less than distracted for a considerable time
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be desired to consider that visits at sea are
not like a journey into the country, where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship’s crew, but not to lie by for them; and though
they were willing to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail
to keep pace with a ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to help
him to set up a main top-mast, and a kind of a top-mast to his jury fore-mast, we did, as it
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
I 56 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces of eight of them
for satisfaction, we left them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the priest,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible
youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a
few months before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to take him out of
the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother; and, indeed, so they had—that
is to say, passively—for they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor, helpless
widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been but 'ust to keep her-‘alive.
But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice, no right; and, erefore, is remorseless,
and capable of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would carry him away from all
his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circumstances, almost as those we found him in;
that is to say, starving in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew he was among; that the captain (by which he meant me,
for he could know nothin of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the mai , he was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thankful
for it, let us carry them where we would. The surgeon represented the case so affectionately
to me, that I yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods, except eleven
hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed, or come at; and as the youth had a bill of
lading for them, I made his commander sign a writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was related,
and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased
widow, which I suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol,
but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a condition, and so far from any
The Lzfe and A dventures 0f Robinsan Crusoe. I 57
the sea, for she was lea y, and had damage in her hold when we met with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and had hitherto hada tolerable voyage as to
The Lzfe and A dventures 0f Robinsan Crusoe. I 57
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage; but, shortening my story
for the sake of what is to follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island,
on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place; for as I
came to it, and went from it before, on the south and east side of the island, as coming from
the Brazils, so now coming in between the main and the island, and having no chart for the
coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in the mouth of the eat
river Oroonoque, but none for my purpose ; only this I learned b my coasting the shore, t at I
was under one great mistake before, viz. that the continent w ich I thought I saw from. the
island I lived in, was really no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that eat river; and that the savages who
came to my island were not properly those which we ca 1 Caribbees, but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found were inhabited, and
some were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there;
but speaking with them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard b , and they came
hither to make salt, and catch some pearl-mussels,if they could, but they be onged to the Isle
de Trinidad, which lay further north, in the latitude of ten and eleven de ees.
But at last coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, sometimes with the
Frenchman’s shallop (which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their
very good will), at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and I presently knew the
very countenance of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little
creek where was my old abitation.
As soon as I saw the place I called for Friday, and asked him if he knew where he was ? He
looked about a little, and presently clapping his hands cried, “ 0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there !"
pointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim on shore to the place.
The Lzfe and A dventures 0f Robinsan Crusoe. I 57
think, shall we see your father ? ” The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentifully. “ What is the matter, Friday," says I? “ are you troubled
because you may see your father?” “ No, no,” says he, shaking his head, “no see him more,
no ever more see again.” “Wh so,” said I, “Friday? how do you know that?” “0 no, 0 no,”
says Friday, “ he long ago die; ong ago, he much old man.” “ Well, well,” says I, “ Friday, you
don’t know; but shall we see any one else then?” The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries
out, “We see ! we see! es, we see much man there, and there, and there.” I looked, but I could
see nobody, no, not wit a perspective glass; which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
men altogether stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the English ancient to be spread, and
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek; so I immediately ordered a boat out, taking
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the whole story of my living there,
and the manner of it, and every particular, both of myself, and those I left there ; and who was
on that account extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen men very well
armed, if we had found any new guest there which we did not know of : but we had no need of
weapons.
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
knew by his face perfectly well; as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way of f of the S aniards, where
indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if they had not let him go on shore, he wou d have jumped
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay
down by him; then stood and looked at him as any one would look at a strange picture, for a
quarter of an hour together; then lie down upon the ground, and stroke his legs and kiss them,
and then get up again, and stare at him ; one would have thought the fellow bewitched; but it
would have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his passion run out another way : in the
morning he walked alon the shore, to-and-again, with his father, several hours, always leading
him by the hand, as if e had been a lady; and every now-and-then he would come to fetch
something or other for him from the boat, either a lump of sugar or a dram, a biscuit cake, or
something or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another way; for then he
would set the old man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a thousand
antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what had ha pened to him abroad, to
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
in our parts of the world, one would be tempted to say, there would hardly have been any need
of the Fifth Commandment.
But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It would be endless to take notice of all
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he came towards the boat, attended
158 T he Lz_’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
no thoughts, no notion, of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him. “ Seignior,” said I
in Portuguese, “ do you not know me ?” atwhich he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to
the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying something in Spanish that I did
not perfectly hear, comes forward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know
that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from heaven sent to save his life: he said
abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then
beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then
asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
house again, and where I should see there had been but mean improvements. So I walked
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another, in ten years’ time they were grown so bi , that, in s ort, the place was inaccessible,
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
was need enough of it, when they had iven me an account how they had passed their time
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
gone. He told me he could not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard
that I was gone away in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a
strong persuasion, that one time or other he should see me again; but nothing that ever
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
ment he was under when he came back to the island, and found I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind, and of whom he said he
had a long story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small. “ And,’ says he, “ had they been strong enough,
we had been all long ago in purgatory ; " and with that he crossed himself on the breast. “ But,
sir,” says he, “ I hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by necessity,
we were obliged for our own preservation, to disarm them and make them our subjects, who
would not be content with being moderately our masters, but would be our murderers.” I
answered, I was heartil afraid of it when I left them there; and nothing troubled me at my
parting from the islan , but that they were not come back, that I might have put them in
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
manner of mischief.
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back, and with him eleven men
more. In the dress the were in, it was im ossible to guess what nation they were of; but he
made all clear both to t em and to me. irst, he turned to me, and ointing to them, said,
“ These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;” and3 then, turning to them,
and pointing to me, he let them know who I was. Upon which they all came up one by one,
not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if they had
been ambassadors or nobleman, and I a monarch, or a great conqueror. Their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly majestic gravity, which
very well became them; and in short, they had so much more manners than I, that I scarce
knew how to receive their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island, after my going away, is so very
remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the former part of my relation will help to
understand, and .which will, in most of the particulars, refer to that account I have already
gfiven, that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the reading of those that come
a ter me.
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
to the expense of ten thousand “ said ’s,” and “ said he’s,” and he “ told me’s," and “ told
him’s,” and the like; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and from what I met with in my conversing
with them, and with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I must go back to the circumstance
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
it is necessar to repeat, that I had sent away Friday’s father and the Spaniard, the two
whose lives I ad rescued from the savages; I say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to
the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard’s companions, whom he had left
behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to
T Ire Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 59
deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the least room to hope for, my
own deliverance, any more than I had twenty years before; much less had I any foreknow~
ledge of what afterward happened, I mean of an English ship coming on shore there to fetch
me oE; and it could not but be a very great surprise to them when they came back, not only to
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
left behind me, which would otherwise have been their own.
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
their own part: and I desired he would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
variety in that part; for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, they having very
calm weather, and a smooth sea: for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but
that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man among them, the captain
of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some time) : they were, he said,
the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the hands of sava es,
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
he told them the story of the deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying
them away, it was like a dream to them; and their astonishment, they said, was something like
that of Joseph’s brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh’s court: but whenhe showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he bron ht them for their journey, or voyage, they were restored to them-
selves, took a just share o? the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come
away with him.
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
upon the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
In these they came away the next morning; it seems they wanted no time to get themselves
ready, for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, or any thing in the world, but
what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion
offered for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and to get off from the island; leaving
three of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind me, that any
man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards’ great grief and disappointment, you may
be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when the Spaniards came on shore, they gave ‘
my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered them to do;
also they gave them the ong paper of directions, which I had left with them, containing the
particular methods which I took for managing every part of my life there; the way how I baked
my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots,
and, in a word, everything I did: all this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two
of whom understand English well enough; nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards
with everything else, for they agreed very well for some time: they gave them an equal
admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and the head Spaniard,
who had seen pretty much of my method, and Friday’s father together, managed all their
affairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot
parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their
sup ers for them.
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
they would not eat themselves, and would not let others eat neither; the differences, neverthe-
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
into open war, and it begun with all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common sense; and though
160 Tlze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe.
accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particular of this part, I must supply a defect in my former rela-
tion; and this was, that I forgot to set down among the rest that, just as we were weighing the
anchor, to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid once
would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it ap ased till the captain, rousing n his
courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted t cm by force, and making two o the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active in the
former disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous words the second time, he threatened to
carryhthem in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny and running away with
the s i . ‘
This,pit seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the
ship; and some of them had put it into the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; upon which it was desired, that
I, who still passed for a great man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and tell them, that they might be assured, if the behaved well the rest of the voyage,
all they had done for the time past should be pardoned: So I went and after passing my
honour’s word to them, they a peared easy, and the more so, when I caused the two men who
were in irons, to be released an forgiven. ’
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night, the wind also falling calm;
next morning we found that our two men who had been laid in irons, had stole each of
them a musket, and some other weapons; what powder or shot they had, we know not; and
had taken the ship’s pinnace, which was not yet haled up, and ran away with her to their
companions in roguery on the shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore, with twelve men and the mate,
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their plantations, burnt all their household-
stuff and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but having no order, he let it all alone,
15iB, everything as they found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board without
em. ‘
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
than these, that after the had been two or three days together, they turned their two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with them; nor
could they for a good while be persuaded to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they
were not yet come.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
would have persuaded the three English brntes to have taken in t eir two countrymen again,
that, as they said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it; so the two poor
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of the danger of the savages, who always landed on the east parts
of the island.
Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their magazines
and stores in; and the S aniards having given them some corn for seed, and especially some of
the peas which I had le t them, they dug and planted, and enclosed after the pattern I had
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
and one of the fellows, being the cook’s mate of the ship, was very read at making soup,
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16!
got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three unnatural rogues, their
own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
L
,-
a
and nobody else had any right to it; and, damn them, they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pa them rent for them.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
one of them merrily told them, if they were ground-landlords, he hoped i they built tene-
Vments upon the land, and made improvements, they would, according to the custom of all
/landlords, grant them a long lease; and bid them go fetch a scrivener to draw the writings.
One of the three, damning and raging, told them, they should see they were not in jest; and
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man’s thrusting him away, that he returned
upon him with a pole he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly,
and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both out with their muskets ; and the
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
quarrel, with the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come to help him;
and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, and presenting the other ends of
their pieces to them, bade them stand off.
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and made desperate by his danger, told them, if they offered to move hand or foot, they were dead
men; and boldly commanded them to la down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; but, seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they consentedto
take their wounded man with them, and be gone; and indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone imme-
diately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues had treated them; for
31ie tltilrgevillains studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that
ey 1 so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of their rogueries, such as
treading down their corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat which the poor men had got
to breed up tame for their store; and, in a word, plaguing them ni ht and day in this manner,
162 T/ze Lg’fe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
time they had a fair opportunity. n order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the S aniards all lived together
at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards s ould stand ,by to see fair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called the
ililinglishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wanted to speak with
em.
It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards, having been in the woods, had seen
one of t e two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I call the honest men; and he had made
a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn, that they had
laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three kids, which was all
they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards,
did not assist them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night,
and they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in
very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them, how they could be so cruel, they being harm-
less inoffensive fellows, and that they were onl utting themselves in a way to subsist by
theili IabIpudu?and that it had cost them a great dial‘ of pains to bring things to such perfection
as ey a
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What had they to do there? That they came
on shore without leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none
of their ground. “Why,” says the S )aniard, very calmly, “ Seignior Inglese, they must not
starve.” The Englishman replied, like a true rou h-hewn tarpaulin, they might starve and
be damned, they should not plant or build. “ But w at must they do then, Seignior?" says the
Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, “ Do! d———-n them, they should be servants, and
work for them.” “But how can on expect that of them ?" says the Spaniard, “ they are not
bought with your money; you ave no right to make them servants.” The Englishman
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and no man had anything to
do there but themselves ; and with that swore by his Maker, that they would go and burn all
their new huts; the should build none upon their land.
“Why, Sei nior,’ says the Spaniard, “ by the same rule, we must be your servants too.”
“ Ay,” sa s t e bold dog, “and so you shall, too, before we have done with you," mixing two
or three ——d d—n-me’s in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled
at that, and made him no answer. However, this little discourse had heated them ; and, starts
ing u , one says to the other, I think it was he the called Will Atkins, “ Come, Jack, let us
go an have the other brush with them; we will dcmo ish their castle, I will warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions.”
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a istol, and a sword, and
muttered some insolent things among themselves, of what they would o to the Spaniards, too,
when opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectl understand them
as to know all the particulars ; only that, in general, they threatens them ard for taking the
two En lishmen’s part.
Whit er they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening, the S aniards said they
did not know; but it seems they wandered about the country part of the nig t; and then lying
down in the place which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept themselves.
The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16 3
while they were in them, and either burn them in them, or murder them as they came out: and
as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have said, though a much fairer
one than that of burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they
were up and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest
man, called out to his comrades, “ Ha ! Jack, here’s the nest; but d—n them, the birds are
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16 3
soon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that
they shook hands, and swore to one another, that the would be revenged of the Spaniards.
As soon as they had made this blood bargain, they fe to work with the poor men’s habitation;
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16 3
pul ed them so limb from limb that they left not t e least stick standing, or scarce any sign on
the ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected household-stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner, that the poor men afterwards found some of their
thin s amile off of their habitation. ’
en they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees the poor men had planted;
pulled up an enclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn, and, in aword,
sacked and plundered evegthing as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16 3
wherever they had been, though they were but two to three: so that, had they met, there
certainly would have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout resolute fellows,
to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they themselves could do to
meet: for as they had dogged one another, when the three were gone thither, the two were
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 16 3
habitation again; we shall see their differing conguct presently.
In

164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
had been about put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what they had
done, by wa of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as
if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his head, and
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
shalliave the same sauce if you do not mend your manners.” The Spaniard, who, though a
quiet, civil man, was as brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong, well-made man,
looked steadily at him for a good while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept gravely
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
He missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went through his hair; but one of them touched
he tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was
more hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a
perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through with his work, he stoo ed and took the fellow’s
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and, calling to him not to
shoot, the stept in, secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the Spaniards their enemies
as well as their own countrymen, they be an to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words,
would have had their arms again; but t e Spaniards, considering the feud that was between
them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they could take to
keep them from killing one another, told them they would do them no harm, and if they
would live peaceably they would be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they did
before; but that they could not think of giving them their arms again, while they appeared
so resolved to do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened them
all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reason than to act reason; but, being refused
their arms, they went raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening what they would
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
they should take care how they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle; for, if they did
they would shoot them, a they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if
they fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this was far from
cooling them; but away they went, raging and swearing like furies of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage enough also, though of another kind;
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
will easily be supposed they had provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
three men thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and, especially having thus disarmed them, made light
of all their threateniugs ; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, ,
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them that, as they had disarmed them, they
164 The Lzfe and Adventures of Rooinson Crusoe.
“ but,” said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, “ we will endeavour to make them do
you justice, if you will leave it to us, for, as there is no doubt but they will come to us again
when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance, we promise you
to make no peace with them without having a full satisfaction for you, and upon this condition
we hope you will promise to use no violence with them other than in your defence.”
The two Englishmen yielded to this ver awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but the
Spaniards protested they did it only to keep t em from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last;
“For,” said they, “we are not so many of us. Here is room enough for us all, and it is a
great pity we should not be all good friends.” At length they did consent, and waited for the
idssue of dthe thing, living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation was
estroye .
T he Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. I6 5
T he Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. I6 5
my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was 518 governor, and two more with him, walking by the
side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive, humble manner, and begged to be
received again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had
acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that
they could not come to any conclusion without consulting the two En lishmen and the rest;
but, however, they would o to them and discourse about it, and they s ould know in half an
hour. It ma be guesse that they were very hard put to it; for it seems, as they were to
wait this ha -honr for an answer, they begged he would send them out some bread in the
T he Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. I6 5
a boiled arrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
After alf an hour’s consultation, they were called in, and a long debate had among them,
their two countrymen char ing them with the ruin of all their labour, and a desi to murder
them; all which they owne before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon t e whole, the
Spaniard acted the moderator between them; and, as they had obliged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now ob ’ ed the three to go and
build their fellows two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of arger dimensions than
they were before; to fence their round again, where they had pulled up the fences, plant trees
in the room of those pulled up, ’g up the land again for planting corn where they had spoiled
it; and, in a word, to restore eve thing in the same state as they found it, as near as they
could; for entirely it could not be, t e season for corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges,
not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this; and, as they had plenty of provisions given them all the
while, they ew very orderly, and the whole societ began to live pleasantly and agreeably
to ether, o y that these three fellows could never e persuaded to work; I mean for them-
se ves, except now and then a little, just as they pleased. However, the Spaniards told them
plainly that, if they would but live sociably and friendl to ether, and study in the whole the
good of the plantation, they would be content to work or them, and let them walk about and
be as idle as they pleased; and thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or two,
thebSpaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them
as efore.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful
creatures began to be as insoleut and troublesome as before; but, however, an accident hap-
ened presently upon this which endangered the safety of them all. They were obliged to lay
by all private resentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor, as I call him, that is to say, the
Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest,
found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was perfectly
well in body, as he told me the story, onl found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran upon
T he Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. I6 5
any sleep ; in short, he ay a great while; but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise: as they lay, being so many of them, upon goat-skins, laid thick u on such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, not in hammocks and ship beds, as did, who was but one,
so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and
perha s, put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for going any way
that t eir thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothin ; and
besides, the trees which I had lanted, as in my former account is described, and whic were
now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was a clear
star-light night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down again; but it was all
one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and coming in, another of
them waked, and, calling, asked who it was that was up ? The governor told him how it had
been with him. “ Say you so,” says the other Spaniard; “ such things are not to be slighted,
I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working,” says he, “near us;” and resently
he asked him, “ Where are the Englishmen?” “ They are all in their huts,” says e, “ safe
enough.” It seems the Spaniards had kept ossession of the main apartment, and had made
a place, where the three Englishmen, since t eir last mutiny, always quartered by themselves,
and could not come at the rest. “ Well,” says the Spaniard, “there is something in it, I am
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and receive intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and
this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come,”
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
trouble, I will tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it.”
In a word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill, where I used to go; but they, being
strong, and in good com any, not alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to go up by the
ladder, and then ulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but were going
round through the grove unconcerned and unwar , when they were surprised with seeing a
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
but of a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the island, it was my constant
care to prevent them making the least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place;
and when by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that they that ot
away were scarce able to give any account of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible, nor 'd
ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else, except it was the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mentioned that I was afraid they should
go home, and bring more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men, that so great a number came
now together; or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand,
they could not it seems understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business, either to
have concealed themselves, and not have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen u on them so
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
getting in between them and their boats; but this presence of mind was wanting to them
which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor, and the man with him, surprised with this sight,
run back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger
they were all in; and they again as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to persuade
then‘; to stay close within where they were, but that they must run all out to see how things
s 00 .
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough, and they had opportunity enough, for
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
another; what they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not; for,
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
into several parties, and were on shore in several places. _
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and as they found that the
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some other place, where they would see the token
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
would have been little less than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the
I66 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great valley where the
cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into the very cave itself. ’
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one body, and at any distance from their
canoes, they resolved, if they had been a hundred of them, to have attacked them: but that
could not be obtained, for they were some of them two miles off from the other, and, as it
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should take, and beaten their brains
in considering their present circumstances, they resolved at last, while it was still dark, to send
the old savage (Friday’s father) out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something concerning them,
what they came for, and what they intended to do; the old man readily undertook it, and,
stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went: after he had been
gone an hour or two, he brings word, that he had been among them undiscovered, that he
found they were two parties, and of two several nations who had war with one another, and had
had a great battle in their own country, and that both sides, having had several prisoners taken
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming, so by chance to the same place, had spoiled
all their mirth; that they were in a great rage at one another; and that t ey were so near,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
perceive that they had any notion of anybody’s being on the island but t emselves. He had
ardly made an end of telling his story, when the could erceive, by the unusual noise they
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
Friday’s father used all the arguments he could to persuade our people to lie close, and not
be seen; he told them their safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie
still, and the savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest would go away——
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to revail, es ecially upon the Englishmen;
their curiosity was so importunate upon their pru entials, t at they must run out and see
the battle ; however, they used some caution too, viz., the did not go openly just by their own
dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
perceive that some of them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great polic
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
party would be beaten; but then that partygvhich was nearest our people’s habitation began to
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
their dwelling, for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that by conse-
quence the pursuers should do the like in search for them. . Upon this they resolved that they
would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they should sally out
over the wall and kill them; so that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it.
The ordered also that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stoc of the musket, but not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
rau directly into the place, not in the least knowing whither they went, but runnin as into
a thick wood for shelter; the scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this wit in, with
this addition to our men’s great satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued them, or
seen which way they were gone. Upon this the Spaniard overnor, a man of humanity,
would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of the
hill, ordered them to go round and come in behind them, surprise and take them prisoners,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
the victors retired, made no pursuit, or ve' little; but drawing themselves into a body
together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed were by wa of triumph, and
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island again free to themselves, their fright
was over, and they saw no savages in several years after.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 167
battle, they found about two-and-thirty dead men upon the spot; some were killed with great
long arrows, some of which were found sticking in their bodies, but most of them were killed
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
and as many bows with a great many arrows; these swords were strange great unwieldy
things, and they must be very strong men that used them. Most of those men that were
killed with them had their heads mashed to ieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in Eng-
lish, their brains knocked out, and several of t eir arms and legs broken ; so that 'it is evident
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
stone dead, for either they stay by their enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry
all the wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
with horror, and the consequences appeared terrib e to the last degree, even to them, if ever
they should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, but
kill them for food, as we kill our cattle. And they professed to me, that the thoughts of
being eaten up, like beef or mutton, though it was supposed it was not to be till they were
dead, had something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
not themselves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I have been speaking of; and, for
a great while after, they were very tractable, and went about the common business of their
whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
‘country; 1but some time after this, they fell all into such measures which brought them into a
ea
great of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and these three being lusty, stout youn
fellows, they made them servants, and taught them to work for them; and, as slaves, they di
well enough; but they did not take their measures with them, as I did by my man Friday,
viz. to begin with them upon the principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct
them in the rational principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing and reducing them
b kind usage and affectionate arguings; but, as they gave them their food every day, so
they gave them their work too, and ke t them fully employed in drudgery enough; but they
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends (for common danger, as I
said above, had effectually reconciled. them), they began to consider their general circum-
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote and retired
parts of it equally adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they
should not rather remove their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for their security,
and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not remove their habitation,
because that some time or other they thought they might hear from their governor again,
meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct them on
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
killed us all, and we were gone, and so our su ply would go too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agree to remove them into the valley where my cave
was, where the land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was land enough;
however, upon second thought, they altered one part of that resolution too, and resolved only
to remove part of their cattle thither and plant part of their corn there; and so, if one part
was destro ed, the other might be saved; and one piece of prudence they used, which it was
ve well t ey did, viz., that they never trusted those three savages, which they had prisoners,
wit knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they
had there, much less of the cave there, which they kept in case of necessity, as a safe retreat,
and whither they carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming
awa .
Bdt, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they agreed, that as I had
168 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe.
their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now fully convinced,
they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than before; to this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees)
for some good distance before the entrance into my apartment, they went on in the same man-
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
landing thereabouts; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow, as I had noted
formerly, they took care to have generally very much larger and taller than those which I had
planted, and as they grew apace so they planted them so very thick and close together, that
when they had been three or four years grown, there was no iercing with the eye any con-
siderable way into the lantation ; as for that part which I has planted, the trees were grown
as thick as a man’s t igh; and among them they placed so many other short ones, and so
thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to
impossible to penetrate it, but with a little army, to cut it all down, for a little dog could
hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to the right hand, and to the
left, and round even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to
come out, but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
w at had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come at them.
This was excellently well contrived: nor was it less than what they afterwards found occasion
for; which served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of Providence to
justify it, so it has, doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to work; and, would we
listen carefully to the voice of it, I am fully persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters
which our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to. But this by the way.
I return to the story: they lived two years after this in perfect retirement, and had no more
visits from the savages : they had indeed an alarm given them one morning, which put them
into a great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one morning on the west
side, or rather the end of the island, which, by the way, was that end where I never went, for
fear of being discovered, they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians just
coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry enough; and giving the alarm to their
comrades, they ke t close all that day and the next, going out only at night, to make observa-
tion: but they h the good luck to be mistaken ; for wherever the savages went, they did not
land that time on the island, but pursued some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one of which, a most turbulent
fellow, being in a rage with one of the three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because
the fellow had not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a little [intractable
in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a fro -belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell
upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to ill him. One of the Spaniards, who was by,
seeing him ive the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but
struck into is shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature’s arm ofl‘, ran to him,
and entreating him not to murder the poor man, clapped in between him and the savage, to
prevent the mischief. 
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and
swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiving,
avoided the blow, and with a shovel, which he had in his hand (for they all were working in the
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
the same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more
came to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had none of them
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I69
man; he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards, and
wounded them both : this fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming in, they
took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next question was, What should be done with them?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that
they knew not what course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest degree,
alliid valued not what hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with
t em.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in so many words, that if they had been his own
countrymen, he would have hanged them; for all laws, and all governors, was to preserve
society; and those who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it; but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they
all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and
would leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said, they desired it might not be left to
them: “For,” says he, “ I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows; ” and with that
I 70 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Englishmen join to ether, and murder all the Spaniards, when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanis governor heard this, he calls to WVilliam Atkins. “ How, Seignior Atkins,”
says he, “ would you murder us all ? What have you to say to that ? ” That hardened villain‘
was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and “ G——d d—-—mn him they would do it
still before they had done with them.” “ Well, but Seignior Atkins,” said the Spaniard, “ what
have we done to you that you will kill us? And what would you get by killing us? And
what must we do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill you, or you will kill us ‘1’ Why will
youlput us to the necessity of this, Seigm’or Atkins?” says the Spaniard very calmly and
sm1 in .
Seigigiior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard’s making a jest of it, that, had he not
been held by three men, and withal had no weapons near him, it was thought he would have
attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be done. The two
Englishmen and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, was of opinion, they should hang one
of the three for an example to the rest; and that particularly it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he had
received, that it was t ought he could not live. ~
But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an Englishman that had saved all their
lives, and he would never consent to ut an Englishman to death, though he had murdered
half of them : nay, he said, if he had een killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to speak, it should be that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying
it: and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, w ere they are so earnestly pressed; so
they all came into it; but then it was to be considered, what should be done to keep them from
doing the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used
I 70 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or s ot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, and left to live where they would, and how
they would, by themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anythin to do with them; that they should be for-
bid to come within a certain distance of the place w etc the rest dwelt; and that if they offered
to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, build-
ings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, that they should die without mercy, and they
I 70 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence, considered a little upon
I 70 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must not starve; we must there-
fore allow them provisions.” So he caused to be added, that they should have a roportion of
corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time t ey might be
supposed to raise some of their own; that they should have six milch-goats, four he- oats,
and six kids, given them, as well for present subsistence, as for a store; and that they s ould
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
like. But they should have none of these tools or provisions, unless they would swear solemnly,
that they would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or their fellow-Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift for themselves. They
went away sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there
was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and chose a place where thely should settle them-
selves, to plant and live by themselves; and some provisions were given t em, but no weapons.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
account where they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and
plantation; and it was a ver convenient place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N.E.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
knows whither, in my attempt to surroun the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a manner like my
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
three sides of it; so that by planting others, it would be very easily covered from e sight,
unless narrowly searched for. They desired some dried goat-skins for beds and covering,
which were given them: and upon iving their words that they would not disturb the rest,
or injure any of their plantations, t ey gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could
spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a word, anything they wanted but arms
and ammunition.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
though the quantit was but small, the quantity of land they had planted being but little; for
indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards, and pots, and such things, they were uite out of their
element, and could make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came on, or want of a cave
in the earth, they could not kee their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling : and
this humbled them much; so t ey came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain; but it was but a poor place at best,
compared to mine; and especially as mine was then: for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged
it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three- uarters of a ear after this separation, a new frolic took these rogues, which,
together with t e former viilany they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them,
and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony : the three new associates began, it seems,
to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to the continent from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could not seize upon some prisoners among the
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I 71
t em.
The project was not so ‘preposterous, if they had gone no further; but they did nothing, and
proposed nothing. but he. either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event; and, if I may
give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; forif we will not allow a visible
curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the divine
’ustcice? It was certainly an apparent ven eance on their crime of mutiny and piracy, that
ronght them to the state they were in; and, as they showed not the least remorse for the
crime, but added new villanies to it, such as, particularly, the piece of monstrous cruelty of
wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he
was directed; and to wound him in such a manner, as no question made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for his cure : and, what was still
worse, the murderous intent; or, to do justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to
be sure it was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in
cold blood, and in their sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story : the three fellows came down to the Spaniards
one morning, and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to speak with them: the
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was this: that they were tired of
living in the manner they did; that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted; and that having no help, the found the should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of t e canoes w ’ch they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition, roportioned for their defence, they would go over to the main, and seek their
fortune, and so de iver them from the trouble of supplying them with any other prcvisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them; but yet very honestl represented to
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ships upon that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that they
would be starved or be murdered; and bade them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for they could not
work, and would not work; and they could but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered,
there was an end of them, they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in short,
insisted importunately upon their demand, declaring that they would go, whether they would
give them any arms or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were resolved to go, they should
not go hke naked men, and be in no condition to defend themselves; and that though they
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
or t em.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to serve them a
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
basket full of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly
set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and therefore was rather too big for them to manage: but as they had a fair breeze and the
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together; an away they went
merrily enough : the Spaniards called after them “ Bon Veajo ; ” and no man ever thought of
seeing them any more.
The S aniards would often say to one another, and the two honest Englishmen who remained
behind, how quietly and comfortably they lived, now those three turbulent fellows were gone;
as for their ever coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts could be
imagined; when, behold, after twenty-two days’ absence, one of the Englishmen being abroad
upon his planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, two of them
with guns upon their shoulders.
Away run the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes frightened and amazed, to the
governor Spaniard, and tells him the were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon
the island, they could not tell who : t e Spaniard pausing awhile, says to him, “ How do you
mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages to be sure.” “No, no,” says the Englishman,
“they are men in clothes with arms.” “ Nay, then," says the Spaniard, “ why are you concerned?
If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth, but
will do us good rather than harm.”
While they were debating thus, comes the three Englishmen, and standing without the wood
which was new lanted, hallooed to them; they presently knew their voices, and so all the
wonder of that ind ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another question, viz.
What could be the matter, and what made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in; and inquiring where they had been, and
what they had been doing, they gave them a full account of their voyage, in a few words, viz.
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
172 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which
they perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but an island: that
entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island on the right ha‘hd north, and several
more west; and being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went boldly on shore ; that they found the eople very courteous and friendly to
them, and they gave them several roots, and some dried fish, and ap eared very sociable; and
the women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply them with
for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way u on their heads.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as we as the could of them by signs, what
anything they could get
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
lived almost every way; who, as they made signs to them, used to eat men; but as for them-
selves, they said, that they never ate men or women, except only such as they took in the wars,
and then they owned that they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind; and they told them about two
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war; and they were fee 'ng them to make
them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners ;
but the other mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry
away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun, and
then to the rising; which was to signify, that the next morning, at sun-rising, they would
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
eleven men; and gave them to the Englishmen to carry with them on their voyage, just as we
would bring so many cows and oxen down to a seaport town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their stomachs turned at this sight,
and they did not know what to do : to refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront
to the savage gentry that offered them; and what to do with them they knew not: however,
upon some debate, the resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that
brought them one of t eir hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which,
though they did not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with: and then, tying the poor
creatures’ hands behind them, they (the people) dragged the poor prisoners into the boat for our
men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, or else they that gave
them this noble present, would certainly have expected that they should have gone to work
with them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited the
donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where, on either side, they understood not one word they could say, they put off with
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with their prisoners, but it
was impossible to make them understand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had
just felt the knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
pu use to be killed.
I they gave them anything to eat, it was the same thing; then they concluded it was for
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
more particularl , the party presently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was fattest
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C msae. I 73
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or a supper for their new
masters.
When the three Wanderers had given this unaccountable history or (i’ournal of their voyage,
the Spaniard asked them, where their new family was ? And being tol that they had brought
them on shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to beg some victuals
for them; they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony,
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
em.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when they had brought them on
shore, they bound their hands, that they might not take the boat and make their escape; there,
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen : the women were well-favoured agreeable persons,
both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would
have passed for very handsome women, even in London itself, having very pleasant agreeable
countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, es ecially when they came afterwards to be
clothed and dressed, as they called it, though the ress was very indifferent, it must be con-
fessed; of which hereafter.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards, who were (to give them
a just character) men of the best behaviour, of the most calm sedate tempers, and perfect
good-humour that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most modesty, as will presently
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
together bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could be supposed
to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains knocked
out, and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
if he knew an of them; and then, if he understood any of their speech: as soon as the old
man came in, e looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither could any of them
understand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy them, that the men into
whose hands they were fallen, were Christians; that they abhorred eating of men or women,
and that they might be sure the would not be killed: as soon as they were assured of this,
they discovered such a joy, an by such awkward and several ways, as is hard to describe;
for it seems they were of several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they were
willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had brought them away, to save their
lives? At which they all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and another
that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to
work.
The governor, who found that the having the women among them would resently be attended
with some inconveniency, and might occasion some strife, and perhaps b ood, asked the three
men, what they intended to do with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether
as servants, or as women ? One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said, “ I am not going to restrain you from it;
you are your own masters as to that: but this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and
<¥kiarrels among you, and I desire it of you, for that reason only, viz. that you will all engage,
t at if any of you take any of these women, as a woman, or wi e, that he shall take but one;
and that, having taken one, none else should touch her; for though we cannot marry any of
you, yet it is but reasonable, that while you stay here, the woman any of you takes, should be
maintained by the man that takes her, and should be his wife; I mean,” says he, “ while he
continues here; and that none else shall have anything to do with her.” All this appeared so
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, if they designed to take any of them? But every
one of them answered, No : some of them said they had wives in Spain; and the others did not
like women that were not Christians; and all together declared, that they would not touch one
of them; which was an instance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my travels; on the
I 74 T he Lzfe and Adventures of K061713011 Crusoe.
orary wife; and so they set u a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday’s father
'ved in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within; the three servants
\
\
)
\\ \\ 
which they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived with them ; and these carried on
the main part of the colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting them in anything
as they could, or as the found necessity required.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
about these women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially
seeing two or three of them were, without comparison, more a reeable than the other: but they
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew lots among
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
creatures were, and fetched out her he chose ; and it was worth observing, that he that chose
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
enough among the rest : and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow considered
better than any of them, that it was application and business that they were to expect assistance
in, as much as anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched out one by one, the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
going to be devoured: accordin ly, when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them
the rest set up a most lamenta le cry, and hung about her, and took their leave of her with
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was
it ossible for the En lishmen to satisf them that they were not to be immediately murdered,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives. -
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a little over, the men went to
work, and the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a few hours, they had built them every
one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had already were crowded with
their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The three wicked ones had itched farthest off ;
and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the islan , so that they con-
tinued separated as before: and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as I might say,
three towns were begun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that as it often happens in the world (what the wise
ends of God’s providence are in such a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest
fellows had the two worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent application on one hand, and
to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when I came to the place,
and viewed the several improvements, lanting, and management of the several little colonies,
the two men had so far outgone the t ree, that there was no comparison: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they wanted; and the reason was, because,
according to my rule, nature dictated, that it was to no urpose to sow more com than they
wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the p anting, of the fences, and indeed of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their huts, that when you came to
the place nothing was to be seen ut a wood; and though they had twice had their plantation
demolished. once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. i I 75
they had grapes planted in order, and managpd like a vineyard, though they had themselves
never seen any thing of that kind; and by t eir good orderin their vines, their grapes were
as good again as any of the others. They had also found t emselves out a retreat in the
thickest part of the woods, where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had found, yet
they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief which fol-
lowed happened, they secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found; they
having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I said, grew so easily,
made the wood unpassable, except in one place, where they climbed up to get over the outside
part, and then went in by ways of their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, thou h they were much civilized by their
new settlement compared to what they were before, an were not so quarrelsome, having not
I 76 T ln: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and that was their idleness. It is true the planted corn, and made fences; but Solomon’s
I 76 T ln: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and it was all overgrown with thorns ; ” for when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they
could not see it in some places for weeds; the hedge had several aps in it, where the wild goats,
had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dea bush was crammed in, to stop
them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen;
whereas, when they looked on the colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry
and success upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in
I 76 T ln: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
“'lyhat the diligent hand makes rich; ” for everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty
within and without; they had more tame cattle than the other, more utensils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within doors; and having
learned the English ways of dressin and cooki from one of the Englishmen, who, as I said,
was cook’s mate on board the ship, t ey dressed t eir husbands’ victuals very nicely and well;
whereas the other could not be brought to understand it; but then the husband, who, as I say,
had been cook’s mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered
I 76 T ln: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the fared accordingly. he diligent lived well and comfortable; and t e slothful lived hard
8,iM? beggarly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened before, either to them or
me; and the original of the story was this.
I 76 T ln: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
which on please; and there is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by
their experience, that their only business was to lie concealed, and_that,_if they were not seen
by any of the savages, they would go off again quietly, when their business was done, having
as et not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been
made sensible of this, they had nothing to do but to ive notice to all the three plantations
to keep within doors, and not to show themselves; on y placing a scout in a proper place, to
give notice when the boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these measures, and made it
known among the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the
desolation of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the curiosity to go to the place where
they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed they had
either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were asleep, and would
not stir when the others went, or they were wandered into the woods, and did not come back
in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a loss what to do; the
Spaniard governor, as it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked; but he professed
he knew not what to do; as for slaves, they had enough already; and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard governor told me they could not think of
shedding innocent blood; for as to them the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
3
1.?‘
32 . . v

THE COLO ’ISTS ATTACK THE CANNIBALS.

none of their property; and they thought they had no just quarrel against them to take
away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish
cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen men, of any
nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had
nothing of it in their very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions, and
yet all of them men of great courage and spirit.
Their tem er and calmness had appeared in their bearing the uusufferable usage of the
three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages,
as above; after some consultation, they resolved upon this, that they would lie still a while
longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone; but then the governor Spaniard recol-
lected that the three savages had no boat; and that if they were left to rove about the island,
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
t at wa .
Uponythis they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they
resolved to waken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so; the poor fellows were
strangely frightened when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that
they should be murdered and eaten ; for it seems those people think all the world does as they
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry them home to their castle; I mean to
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
their country work; such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c., and afterwards
the carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
ere they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them to do ; and whether
it was by negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend them-
selves, I know not, but one of them run away; and, taking into the woods, they could never
hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after in some other boats or canoes
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, t at if this fellow got safe ome among
his comrades, he would certainly give them an account that there were eople in the island,
as also how weak and few they were; for this savage, as I observed befdre, had never been
told, and it was very happy he had not, how many they were, or where they lived, nor had
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
other retired places, such as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two
Englishmen had made, and the like.
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
two months after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe,
came rowing along the north side of the island, where they never used to come before, and
landed about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation
of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept: as the Spaniard governor
said, had they been all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of them
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
much odds; the two men had the happiness to discover them about a league off, so that it
was above an hour before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now having great reason to believe that they were
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 77
of the three men, who they brought with the women, who, it seems, proved very faithful to
them, to lead them with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with them,
to their retired place in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two
fellows hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and that they bent their
M
course‘directly that way, they opened the fences where their milch-goats were kept, and drove
them all out, leaving their goats to struggle into the woods, whither they leased, that the
savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came wit them was too
cunning for that, and gave them an account of it all; for they went directly to the place.
When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and goods, they sent the other slave
they had of the three, who came with the women, and who was at their place by accident,
away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help;
and in the meantime they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated
towards the place in the wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet so that
they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground, they could see the little arm of their
enemies come on directly to their habitation, and in a moment more could see all t eir huts
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
a very great loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some time.
They kept their station for a while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread
themselves all over the lace, rummaging every way, and every place they could think of,
in search for prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom it now plainly appeared they
had had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where they stood, as it
was likely some of the wild people might come that way, so they might come too many together,
thought it proper to make anot ier retreat about half a mile farther, believing, as it afterwards
hap ened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be together.
Tile next halt was at the entrance into a very thick grown part of the woods, and where an
old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large; and in this tree they both took
their standing, resolving to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they had already had notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them;
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
them, all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a dis-
tance running another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sportsmen beating for
their game.
The poor men were now in great peréplexity, whether they should stand, and keep their
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
retreat in the woods, and then all would be lost; so they resolved to to stand them there, and
if there were too many to deal with, then they would get to the top of the tree, from whence
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
t is regulation, by turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but the three,
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
men were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take them in a line as they came,
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
having a fair loophole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without
being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not
miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly saw that one of
the three was the runaway savage that had esca ed from them, and they both knew him
I78 T/ze Lzfe a/m,’ A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
sure to have a second.
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
was killed outright, being shot in the head; the second, which was the runaway Indian, was
shot through the body, and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in
the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of the second; and
being dreadfully frightened, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground screaming and
yelling in a hideous manner.
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
the echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
However, all being silent again, and they not nowing what the matter was, came on
unconcerned till they came to the place where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup-
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt; and who, ’tis very rational to believe, told
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
those two, and wounded him. This, I say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, so they had never heard a gun in all their lives, or so much as
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
bullets; if they had, one might reasonably believe, that they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned, in viewing the fate of their fellows, without some apprehension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to be obliged to kill so many
poor creatures, who at the same time had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
among them; and singling out by agreement whic to aim at, they shot toget er, and killed
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
fill with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had killed
t em all. '
The belief that the savages were all killed, made our two men come boldly out from the tree
before they had charged their guns again, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise, when they came to the place, and found no less than four of the men alive, and
of them, two very little hurt, and one not at all; this obliged them to fall upon them with
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in his knee, and put them out of
their pain; then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moans to them by gestures and signs, for his life, but
could not say one word to them that they could understand. '
However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a tree thereb ; and one of the
Englishmen, with a piece 0f rope-twine, which he had by great chance in is pocket, tied his
two feet fast together, and his two hands behind him, and there they left him, and, with
what speed they could, made after the other two which were gone before, fearing they, or
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
and the few goods they had left lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it was at
a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley, towards the
sea, the quite contrary way from that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of;
772e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I79
as they supposed, was delivered y his comrades; for he was gone, and the two pieces of
rope-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
The were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing what course to take, or how
near the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so téiey resolved to go away to the place where
M
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough to be sure; for though the savages were their own country folk, yet they were most
terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge they had of them.
When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood, and very near that
place, but had not found it; for it was, indeed, inaccessible by the trees standing so thick,
as before, had not the persons seeking it been directed by those that knew it, which these
did not; they found, therefore, everything very safe, only the women in a terrible fright; while
they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance;
he other ten, with their servants, and old Friday—I mean Friday’s father—were gone in
a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that was kept there, in case the savages
should have roved over to that side of the country; but the did not spread so far. With
the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as said, were their prisoners for-
merly, and with them also came the sav e who the Englishmen had left bound hand and
foot at the tree; for it seems they came t at way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them, where, however, they were obliged to
bind him again, as they had the two others who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and they were so afraid of their escaping,
that they were once resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity
to do so, for their own preservation: however, the Spaniard governor would not consent to it;
but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out of the way to to old cave in the valley,
and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them, and give them food’ for their subsistence;
which was done, and they were bound there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged, that they could not satisf
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout uarter staves, away they went in quest
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
was easy to see, that some more of the savages had been there; for they had attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over; from
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
could they here see any of the savages : they then resolved, though with all possible caution, to
go forward towards their ruined plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in
sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order
to be gone.
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their improvement destroyed, the
rest all agreed to come and help them rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their
three count men, who were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet,
as soon as t ey heard of it (for they, living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till
all was over), came and offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work for several
days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for them; and thus, in a little time,
they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of seeing three of the savages’
canoes come driving on shore, and at some distance from them, two drowned men; by which
they had reason to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea, and had overset some of
them; for it had blown very hard the very night after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough of them escaped to inform
the rest, as well of what they had done as of what had happened to them; and to whet them
on to another enterprise of the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to attempt, with
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
inhabitants, they could say little to it of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man, and
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
180 The Life and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe.
time our men were in hopes they had either forgot their former bad luck, or given over the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
than eight and twenty canoes full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in
short, it put all our people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of the island, our men had
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would much more be so now, while the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; because
they supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old
game over again, though they did not now land within two leagues of it.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
called it, which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of inhabitants
anywhere as was possible: and the next morning early they posted themselves with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men, and wait for their comin . As they guessed, so is
happened; these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of’ the island, came ranging
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
our men could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but, that which was worse, they had
not arms for all their number neither. The whole account, it seems, stood thus. First as to
men :— -
17 Spaniards. _
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday’s father.
3 The three slaves, taken with the women, who proved very faithful.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.
To arm these they had
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling pieces.
5 Muskets, or fowling pieces, which were taken by me from the mutiuous seamen whom
I reduced.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but they had every one a halbert,
or a lon staff, like a quarter staff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it,
and by is side a hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
have spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another; and the women hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so often, commanded the whole; and Wm.
Atkin, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring bold fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst of
their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most
useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
alpd so come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket of trees also before
t em.
When the savages came on, they run straggling about every way in heaps, out of all manner
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 1 8 I
r
seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded,
they knew not; but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the savages, they
were frightened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and
others hurt, but see nobody that did it; when in the middle of their fright, \V. Atkins, and
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
three being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
ordered to do; or had the rest of the body been at hand to have poured in their shot continuall ,
the savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among them came principallly
from this, viz. that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see
nobody that hurt them; but W. Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat ; some of
the savages, who were at a distance, spying them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with
their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came
with the women; this slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other men killed, retreated to a
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
them were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that their wounded
men, who were not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
madmen. 
When our men retreated, the left the Spaniard and the Englishman that was killed, behind
them; and the savages, when t ey came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched man-
ner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs, and wooden swords, like true savages.
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
a kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom; and shouted twice, in token of their victory.
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together, upon a rising ground,
Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had him marched, and charged them again all
together at once; but the Spaniard replied, “ Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
wounds, and faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage.
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, “ That is true, Seignior, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would go on, while I am warm.” “Well, Seignior Atkins,”
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till morning.” So they waited.
But as it was a clear moon-light night, and they found the savages in great disorder about
their dead and wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them where they lay, they
afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they could come to give them
but one volley before they were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do. For one
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
the woods and the seaside, westward, and then turning short south, they came so near where
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were killed and wounded;
, I82 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Roinson Crusoe.
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expedition, and then divided themselves into
three bodies, and resolved to fall in among them altogether : they had in each body eight
persons that is to say, twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two men, and two women, who, by
the way, fought desperately.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
would have had the women keep back; but they said they were resolved to die with their
husbands. Having thus formed their little army, they marched out from among the trees,
and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could; the
savages stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men
shouting from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had seen us; and, as
soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was
wounded, though not dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but, running up to them,
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
armed staves and hatchets; and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
about 180 of them; the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods, and
over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could help them to do ; and as we did not
trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got altogether to the sea-side, where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible
storm of wind that evening from the sea-ward; so that it was impossible for them to go off;
nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
off; and some of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night; but having refreshed
themselves as well as they could, they resolved to march to that part of the island where the
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
and yet past recovering life; a sight disagreeable enough to generous minds; for a truly great
man, though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there was no need to give any orders in this case; for their own savages, who
were their servants, despatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable remains of the savages’
- army lay, where there appeared about 100 still; their posture was generally sitting upon the
ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put between the two hands,
leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket shot of them, the Spaniard governor ordered two
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation imaginable; and, as
our men advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind of a howling noise, which our men did not understand, and had never heard before; and
thus they run up the hills into the country.
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
to sea; but they did not then consider that this might probably have been the occasion of their
coming again in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case; his
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were against it, for fear of making the wretches
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 18 3
all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with one hundred men than with one hun-
dred nations; that as they must destroy their boats so they must destroy the men, or be all of
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so plainly that they
all came into it; so they went to work immediately with the boats, and, getting some dry
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
some of them came running out of the woods, and, coming as near as they could to our men,
kneeled down and cried, “ 0a, 0a, Waramokoa,” and some other words of their language which
none of the others understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and strange
noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone and never come there again.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these people from ever going home again; de-
pending upon this that if ever so much as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story the colony was undone; so that lettin them know that they should not have any
mercy, they fell to work with their canoes an destroyed them every one that the storm had
not destroyed before; at the sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard plain enough; after which they ran about the island like distracted
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Nor did the S aniards, with all their prudence, consider that while they made those people
thus desperate, t ey ou ht to have kept good guard at the same time upon their plantations;
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley; yet they found
out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting
about it, trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost
ripe, and did to our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthiug
worth of service.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to pursue them or hunt them up and down, for as they were too nimb e of foot for our men
when they found them single, so our men durst not go about single, for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers; the best was they had no weapons; for though they had bows
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edged tool or weapon
among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and, indeed, deplorable; but
at the same time our men were also brought to very bad circumstances by them; for thou h
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed and their harvest spoilei;
and what to do or which way to turn themselves they knew not; the only refuge they had
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little corn which
grew there, and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who
were now reduced to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of
his head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable that
this was the same barbarous fellow who cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murdered all the Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was at any time after I
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
m corn and my tame cattle, for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the island
w ich would devour everything they could come at, yet could very hardly be come at
themselves.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part of the island, south-west, that if any
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and harass them and kill as many of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number; and if they could at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would give
them corn and teach them how to plant and live upon their daily labour.
184 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
‘_,1,’,
T lze Lzfe and A dventul'es of Rabinson Crusoe. 185
for fear, and so dreadfully frightened they were, that they kept out of sight, farther and
farther, till at last our men following them, and every day almost killing or wounding some
of them, they kept up in the woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the
utmost misery for want of food, and many were afterwards found dead in the woods with
out any hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this it made their hearts relent, and pity moved them ; especially the
Spaniard governor, who was a most gentlemanly generous-minded man as ever I met with in
my life; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive and bring him to understand
what the meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them and see if
tlhey mig t be brought to some conditions that might be depended upon to save their lives and
o us no s oil.
It was 1some while before any of them could be taken; but, being weak and half-starved,
T lze Lzfe and A dventul'es of Rabinson Crusoe. 185
T lze Lzfe and A dventul'es of Rabinson Crusoe. 185
offered him, he at last grew tracta 1e and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him how kind the
other would be to them all; that they would not only save their lives, but would give them a
part of the island to live in, provided they would give satisfaction that they would keep in
their own bounds, and not come beyond it, to injure or prejudice others; and that they
should have corn given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread, and some bread
given them for their present subsistence; and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assuring them that if they
did not agree immediately they should be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to about thirty-seven,
T lze Lzfe and A dventul'es of Rabinson Crusoe. 185
which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were; the three Indian slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread, some rice boiled u to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats;
and they were ordered to go to the si e of a hill, where they sat down, ate the provisions very
thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought of; for
except when they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds;
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.
They had tau ht them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and milk them;
T lze Lzfe and A dventul'es of Rabinson Crusoe. 185
to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the see.
before them, on the south-east corner of the island; they had land enough, and it was very good
and flllllitfal; they had a piece of land about a mile and half broad, three or four miles in
len .
giir men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for myself; and gave them
among them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there they lived, the most
subjected, innocent creatures that ever were heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect to the savages till I came to
revisit them, which was above two years; not but that now and then some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trium hal, unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations and
perhaps had never heard of t ose that came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or inquiry after their countrymen; and, if they had, it would have been very hard
to have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to them, to my return, at
least, that was worth notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them,
and they frequently went among them; but forbid, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they taught the savages to make wicker~work, or
baskets; but they soon outdid their masters, for they made abundance of most ingenious
I
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c., as
also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things, being very ingenious
at such work when they were once ut in the way of it.
My coming was a articular r ief to these people, because we furnished them with knives,
scissors, spades, shove s, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they could want.
With the help of these tools, they were so very handy that they came at last to build
up their huts or houses very handsomely, raddling or working it up like basket-work all the
way round, which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuit , and looked very odd; but was
an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men
were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do the like for them; so that
when I came to see the two Englishmen’s colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they lived
all like bees in a hive; and as for W. Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, neces-
sary, and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never
seen. It was 120 paces round in the outside, as I measured by my steps; the walls were as
close worked as a basket, in panels or squares, of thirty-two in number, and very strong,
standin about seven foot hig : in the middle was another, not above twenty-two paces
round, but built stronger, being eight s uare in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
very strong posts, round the top of whic he laid strong pieces, pinned together with wooden
pins, from which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you,
and joined together very well, though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he
made himself too, out of the old iron that I had left there; and indeed, this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had no knowledge of; he made him a
186 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling ood anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, stap es and spikes, bolts and hinges. But
to return to the house; after he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up
186 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his
house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages made
the basket-work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long
rafters lay from the two and thirty angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about twenty
foot distant; so that there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker-wall, and without
the inner, near twenty foot wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, but much fairer, and divided
186 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
186 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
or walk that was round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served not
only for retreat, but to store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
s aces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had were
us ordered: as soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage
straight before you to the door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker partition,
186 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and about thirty foot long, and through that into another not quite so long: so that in the
outer circle was ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come at through the apart-
ments of the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective chambers of
the inner circle: and four large warehouses or barns, or what you please to call them, which
went in through one another, two on either hand of the passage that led through the outer
door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world nor a house or tent so
neatly contrived, much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three families; that is to
say, W. Atkins and his companion; the third was killed, but his wife remained with three
children, for she was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the other two were not at all
backward to give the widow her full share of everything, I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes,
820., and when they killed a kid or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived well
eiliough, though it was true they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been observed
a rea .
Oneythin , however, cannot be omitted, viz. that, as for religion. I don’t know that there was
anything of that kind among them; they retty often, indeed, put one another in mind, that
there was a God, by the very common method of seamen, viz. swearing by His name; nor were
their poor, ignorant sava e wives much the better for having been married to Christians, as we
must call them ; for as they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable
of entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk anything to them con-
cerning re igion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had made from them, was,
that they had taught them to speak English pretty well; and all the children they had, which
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
these children above six year old when I came thither; for it was not much above seven year
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
they had all children, more or less. I think the cook’s mate’s wife was big of her sixth child;
and the mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet. laborious women, modest and
decent, helpful to one another, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I cannot call them
husbands; and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
legally married; both which were hap ily brought about afterwards by my means, or, at least,
in consequence of my coming among t em.
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
Englishmen, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family,
and in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances, when they were among
the savages. They told me readily that they had no instances to give of their application or
ingenuity in that country; that they were a oor, miserable, dejected handful of people; that if
means had been put into their hands, they ad yet so abandoned themselves to despair, and
so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving.
One of them, a rave and very sensible man, told me he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not is e part of wise men to ive up themselves to their misery, but always to take
hold of the helps which reason offered,i as well for present support as for future deliverance.
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
regarded only things past, which were generally impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but
had no view to things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
proverb, which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own, thus :—
“In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled."
He run on then in remarks u on all the little improvements I had made in my solitude, my
unwearied application, as he ca led it, and how I had made a condition which, m its circum-
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
even now, when they were all together. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind in their distress than any people that ever he met with; that their
unhappy nation, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with the
T Ize Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. I87
to despair, lie down under it and die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
esca e.
I gold him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that they were cast upon the shore
without necessaries, without supply of food, or of present subtenance, till they could provide;
that, it is true, I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supplies
I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I had
done. “ Seignior," sa s the Spaniard, “had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should
never have gotton hal' those things out of the ship as you did: nay,” says he, “ we should
never have found means to have gotten a raft to carry them, or to have gotten the raft on)
shore without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done," said he, “if any of us
had been alone.” Well, I desired him to abate his compliment and go on with the history of
their coming on shore where they landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where
there were people without provisions; whereas, had they had the common sense to have put off
to sea again, and gone to another island a little farther, they had found provisions, though
without people, there being an island that way, as they had been told, where there was pro-
visions, though no people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
such multitudes, and where turtle andsea-fowls were in such plenty, that they could have been
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
with a few roots and herbs, which they understood not, and which had no substance in them,
and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and who could treat them no better,
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
count .
Thg gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the savages they were with,
and to teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of living; but in vain; and how they
retorted it upon them as unjust that they, who came there for assistance and support, should
attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave them bread: intimating, it seems, that
none should set up for the instructors of others but those who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to; how sometimes they
were many days without any food at all; the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort
of savages that lived more indolent, and, for that reason, were less supplied with the necessaries
of life than they had reason to believe others were in the same part of the world; and yet they
found that these savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies
of food.
Also, they added that they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and
goodness the governing Providence of God directs the events of thin s in the world, which,
the said, appeared in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the har ships they were under,
an the barrenness of the country where they were, they had searched after a better place to
live in, they had then been out of the way of the relief that happened to them by my means.
They then gave me an account how the savages who they lived among expected them to go
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable only
to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to fn’ends and enemies; but being
without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in reason‘deny to go out
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they neither had bows or arrows, nor could
they use those the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the three
halberts the had were of use to them; and they would often drive a whole little army before
them, with t ose halberts and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets: but
that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger from
their arrows, till at last they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts whose names they knew not, and these covered them
from the arrows of the savages; that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard who I
I 88 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
‘ L ‘H’.-
was taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all
ventured their lives to have rescued him.
They told me, that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their company rescued
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
thought had been dead; and then the made their way with their halbert and pieces, standing
gclose togetherin a line, through a y of above a thousand savages, beating down all that
came in their we. , got the victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
as I gave an account in my former.
They described most affectionately, how they were surprised with joy at the return of their
friend and companion in misery, who they thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the
worst kind, viz., by wild men; and, yet how more and more they were su rised with the
account he gave them of this errand, and that there was a Christian in any p ace near, much
more one that was able, and had humanity enou h to contribute to their deliverance.
They described how the were astonished at t e sight of the relief I sent them, and at the
appearance of loaves of read, things they had not seen since their coming to that miserable
pace; how often they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what a
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
t eir su y.
And, lifter all, they would have told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a
boat and pilots to carry them away to the person and place from whence all these new comforts
came; but they told me it was impossible to express it by words, for their excessive joy, naturally
driving them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by telling
me that they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their passion, suitable to
the sense that was upon them; that in some it worked one way, and in some another; and
that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would burst out into tears; others be stark mad,
and others immediatel faint. This discourse extremely affected me, and called to my mind
Friday’s ecstasy when lie met his father, and the poor people’s ecstasy when I took them up
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
in a place where he ex ected to perish; and my own joy, when after twenty-eight years‘ cap-
tivity, I found a good s ip ready to carry me to my own country. '
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
wit it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things, as I found them, I must relate the heads of
what I did for these peo le, and the condition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and
mine too, that they won d be troubled no more with the savages; or that, if the were, they
would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as man as before; so they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with t e Spaniard, who I called governor,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
be just to carry off some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling to stay if their
strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there, not to remove them; and
then I let them know that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them. That I
had been at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their con-
venience as their defence; and that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary employments which they
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I delivered to them the
stores I had brought, I asked thenQone by one if they had entirely forgotten and buried the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
engage in a strict friendship, and union of interest, that so there might be no more misunder-
standings or jealousies. ,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe. 1 89
tions enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends; that, for
his part, he would live and die with them, and was so far from designing anything against the
Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him but what his own mad humour made
necessary, and what he would have done, and perhaps much worse, in their case; and that he
would ask theglpardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done to them;
and was ver '
and would o anythin that lay in his ower to convince them of it; and as for going to
England, he cared not if he did not go thither this twenty years.
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
countrymen, for their ill conduct, as they had let me know. And they appealed to me, for the
necessity they were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the
great ht they had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had shown himself so
ai to, and concerned for the general interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that
was past, and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
that honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most heartily embraced the
occasion of giving me this assurance, that they would never have any interest separate from
one another. 
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we a pointed the next day to dine
altogether; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. I caused t e ship’s cook and his mate to
come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook’s mate we had on shore assisted. We
brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship’s provision,
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
French claret, and ten bottles of English beer, things that neither the Spaniards or the
Englislpnienfhad tasted for many years; and which, it may be supposed, they were exceed-
ingl ,g a o .
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
were sent covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh
meat from on shore, as we did with their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merr , I brought out my cargo of goods,
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
cient for them all; desired, that they might all take an equal qpantity of the goods that were
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
make every one of them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard’s request, afterwards made them up
six; these were exceeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I may say, they had long
since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned before, to make every one a light coat,
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
stockings, and hats, &c.
I cannot express what leasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the countenances of all these
poor men, when they saw t e care I had taken of them, and how well I had furnished them;
they told me I was a father to them; and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so
remote a part of the world; it would make them forget that they were left in a desolate place ;
and they all voluntarily en aged to me, not to leave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me; particularly the tailor,
the smith, and the two ca enters, all of them most 'necessary people; but above all,
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
them; and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately, and with my
190 The Lzfe and A dvenmres of Robinson Crusoe.
taught the women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to
make the shirts of their husbands, and for all the rest.
ling and desirous of living on terms of entire friendship and union with them,’
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were, for they took in pieces all
my clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bedsteads,
cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 19:
Will Atkins’s basket-house, as I called it, and they both owned they never saw an instance of
such natural ingenuity before; nor anything so regular, and so handily built, at least of its
kind; and one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me
“ I am sure,” sa s he, “that man has no need of us; you need do nothing but give him tools.”
Then I broug t them out all my store of tools, and gave every man a digging spade, a shovel,
and a rake, for we had no harrows or ploughs; and, to every separate place, a pick-axe,
a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing that as often as any was broken, or worn
out, they should be supplied, without rudging, out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, c isels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron-
work, they had without tale, as they required; for no man would care to take more than they
wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste or spoil them, on any account whatever.
And for the use of the smith I left two ton of unwroug‘ht iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I broug t them, was such even to profusion, that
they could not but re’oice at them; for now they could march as I used to do, with a musket
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 19:
but some little advantages of situation, which also they could not miss of, if the had occasion.
1 carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved to deat , and the maid
also; she was a sober, well-educated. religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that
every one ave her a ood word. She had, indeed, an unhap y life with us, there being no
woman in t e ship butgerself ; but she bore it with patience. After awhile, seeing things so well
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 19:
business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking sO long a voyage, I say, con-
sidering all this, both of them came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on
the island, and be entered among my family, as they called it.
I agreed to it readily; and they had a little plat of ground allotted to them, where they had
three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work, alisado’d like Atkins’s, adjoining
to his plantation; their tents were contrived so, that they ha each of them a room, a part to
lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store-house, to la all their goods in, and to eat and
drink in. And now the other two Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place; and
so the island was divided into three colonies, and no more; viz. The Spaniards, with old Friday,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 19:
city, and where they had so enlar ed and extended their works, as well under as on the outside
of the hill, that they lived, thoug perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such
a little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, in any part of the world. For I verily believe, 1000
men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they had not known there was such a thing,
and looked on purpose for it, they would not have found it ; for the trees stood so thick, and
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 19:
could discover the place, except the only two narrow entrances where they went in and out,
could be found; w 'ch was not very easy. One of them was just down at the water edge of
the creek ; and it was afterwards above 200 yards to the place; and the other was up the ladder
at twice, as I have already formerly described it; and they had a large wood, thick planted,
also on the top of the hill, which contained above an acre, which grew apace, and covered the
place from all discovery there, with only one narrow place between two trees, not easy to be
discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of W. Atkins’s, where there were four families of Englishmen, I
mean those I had left there, with their wives and children; three savages, that were slaves, the
widow and children of the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the maid; and, by
the way, we made a wife of her also, before we went away. There was also the two carpenters
and the tailor, who I brought with me for them; also the smith, who was a very necessary man
to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my other man, who I called
Jack of all trades ; who was in himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a
very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow; and, before I went away, we married him to the
honest maid that came with the youth in the ship, I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say something of the French eccle-
siastic that I had brought with me out of the ship’s crew, who I took up at sea. It is true,
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
extraordinary upon record, of a man, who, before I begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) '
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
he was a Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French Popish priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due character; and I must say, he was a grave,
sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplar
in almost everything he did. What, then, can any one say against my being very sensible of
the value of such a man, notwithstanding his profession? Though it may be my opinion, per-
ha s, as well as the o inion of others, who shall read this, that he was mistaken.
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
about religion, in the most obliging manner imaginable.
“ Sir," says he, “ you have not only, under God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my
life, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility,
have taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation. Now, sir,” says
he, “ you see by my habit what my profession is; and I guess by your nation, what yours is: I
may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on all occasions,
to bring all the souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine;
but, as I am here under your permission, and in your family, I am bound in justice to your kind-
ness, as well as in decency and good manners, to be under your government; and therefore,
shall not, without your leave, enter into any debates on the point of religion, in which we may
not agree, farther than you shall give me leave.”
I told him, his carriage was so modest, that I could not but acknowledge it; that it was true,
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
conversed with, without falling into any inconveniences, or carrying questions to any height in
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
and if we did not converse without any dislike on either side, upon that score, it should be his
fault, not ours.
He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily separated from disputes;
that it was not his business to ca rinciples with every man he discoursed with; and that he
rather desired me to converse wit him as a gentleman, than as a religieux: that if I would
give him leave, at any time, to discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with
it; and that then he did not doubt but I would allow him also to defend his own opinions, as
well as he could: but that, without my leave, he would not break in upon me with any such
thin .
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
priest, as well as a private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the safety of all that
was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with him, and he could not pray with us,
he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner we
conversed; and as he was of a most obliging gentlemanlike behaviour, so he was, if I may be
allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many extraordinary events of it;
of many adventures which had befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad in the
world, and articularly this was ‘very remarkable, viz. That in the voya e he was now engaged
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
have gone to Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St. Maloe; but
being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some damage, by running aground
‘192 T lre Lzfe and Adventures of Roh'nson' Crusoe.
Portuguese ship there, bound to the Madeiras and ready to sail, and supposing he should easily
meet with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras;
but the master of the Portuguese shi , being but an indifferent mariner, had been out in his
T he Lzfe and A dventuror of Robinson Cmsoe. 193
for his cargo, whic was corn; and therefore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt
at the Isle of May, to go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in the exigence, but to go
with the shi ; and had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so they call the place where
T he Lzfe and A dventuror of Robinson Cmsoe. 193
river of Canada, and from thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he should have
T he Lzfe and A dventuror of Robinson Cmsoe. 193
ship died, and the shi proceeded no farther. So the next voya e he shipped himself for France,
in the ship that was urnt, when we took them up at sea, and 5ien shipped with us for the East
Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been disappointed in live voyages, all, as I may
call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion to mention farther of the same person.
But I shall not make digressions into other men’s stories, which have no relation to my own.
I return to what concerns our affair in the island. He came to me one morning, for he lodged
among us all the while we were upon the island; and it happened to be just when I was going
to visit the Englishmen’s colony, at the farthest liiart of the island; I sa , he came to me, and
told me, with a very grave countenance, that he ad, for two or three ays, desired an oppor-
tunity of some discourse with me, which, he hoped, should not be displeasing to me, because
he thought it might, in some measure, correspond with my general design, which was the
prosperity of my new colony; and, perhaps, might put it, at least more than he yet thought
it was, in the way of God’s blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse; and turning a little short, “ How,
sir,” said I, “can it be said, that we are not in the wa of God‘s blessing, after such visible
assistances, and wonderful deliverances, as we have seen ere, and of which I have given you a
large account ? ”
“If you had pleased, sir,” said he (with a world of modesty, and et with great readiness)
“ to have heard me, you would have found no room to have been disp eased, much less to think
so hard of me that I should suggest, that you have not had wonderful assistances and deli-
verances. And, I hope, on your behalf, that you are in the way of God’s blessing, and your
design is exceeding good, and will prosper. But, sir,” said he, “ though it were more so, than
is even possible to on, yet there may be some among you that are not equally right in their
actions. And you now, that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan, in the camp,
removed God’s blessing from them, and turned His hand so against them, that six and thirty
of them, though not concerned in the crime, were the object of divine vengeance, and bore the
weight of that unishment.”
I was sensib y touched with his discourse; and told him his inference was so just, and the
whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own nature, that I was ver
sorry I had interrupted him; and begged him to go on. And, in the mean time, because it
seemed, that what we had both to say, might take up some time, I told him I was going to the
Englishmen’s plantations, and asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the
way. He told me he would more willingly wait on me thither, because there, partly, the thing
was acted, which he desired to speak to me about. So we walked on, and I pressed him to be
free and plain with me, in what he had to say.
“Why, then, sir,” says he, “ be pleased to give me leave to lay down a few propositions,
as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may not differ in the general principles,
though we may be of some differing opinions in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though
we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and it is very unhappy that it is so,
especiallyin the case before us, as I shall show afterwards; yet there are some general prin-
ciples in which we both agree; viz. First, that there is a God, and that this God, having given
us some stated eneral rules for our service and obedience, we ought not willingly and know-
ingly to offend im, either by neglecting to do what He has commanded, or by doing what He
has expressly forbidden; and let our different religions be what they will, this general principle
N
is readily owned by us all. That the blessing of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous
sinning against His command; and every good Christian will be affectionately concerned to
prevent any that are under his care living in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is
not your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that they should
live in as little distance from, and enmity with their Maker as possible; especially if you give
. me leave to meddle so far in your circuit.”
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I granted all he had said; and
thanked him, that he would so far concern himself for us; and begged he would explain the
particulars of what he had observed, that like Joshua (to take his own parable), I might put
away the accursed thing from us.
“ Why, then, sir,” says he, “ I will take the liberty you give me; and there are three things,
which, if I am right, must stand in the way of God’s’blessing upon your endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice, for your sake, and their own, to see removed. And, sir,” says he, “ I
promise myself that you will fully agree with me in them all, as soon as I name them; espe-
cially, because I shall convince you, that every one of them may, with great ease, and very much
to your satisfaction, be remedied.”
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities, but went on. “First, sir," says he,
“ you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages, and have
taken them as their wives, and have had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man require; and therefore are
yet, in the sense of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adultery. To this, sir,” says he,
“ I know you will object, that there was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, or of any pro-
fession, to perform the ceremony: nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of
marriage, and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor
has told you; I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to make when the took these
women, viz. That they should choose them out by consent, and keep separately to them; which
by the way, is nothing of a marria e, no agreement with the women as wives, but only an agree-
ment among themselves, to keep t em from quarrelling.
“ But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a Roman) con-
sists not only in the mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man and wife, but in
the formal and legal obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman, at
all times, to own and acknowledge each other; obliging the men to abstain from all the other
women, to engage in no other contract while these subsist; and on all occasions, as ability
allows, to provide honestly for them, and their children ; and to oblige the women to the same,
or like conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their side.
“ Now, sir,” says he, “ these men may, when they please, or when occasion presents, abandon
these women, disown their children, leave them to perish, and take other women, and marry
them while these are living.” And here he added, with some warmth, “How, sir, is God
honoured in this unlawful liberty ? And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this
place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men, who
at resent are your subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by you
to ive in open adultery?”
I confess, I was struck at the thing itself, but much more with the convincing arguments he
supported it with; for it was certainly true, that though they had no clergyman on the spot,
194 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick between them,
engaging the men to own these women for their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon
194 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
lawful marriage in the sight of God; and it was a great neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest, by telling him, that all that part was
done when I was not here; and they had lived so many years with them now, that if it was an
adultery, it was past remedy; they could do nothing in it now.
“ Sir,” says he, “ asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in this; that it being
done in your absence. you could not be charged with that part of the crime. But I beseech
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 195
now to put an end to it. How can you think, but that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all
the guilt, for the future, will lie entirely upon you? Because it is certainly in your power now
to ut an end to it; and in nobody’s power but yours.”
was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but I imagined, that, by putting an end
to it, he meant, that I should part them, and not suffer them to live together any longer; and
I said to him, “ I could not do that by any means, for that it would put the whole island into
confusion.” He seemed surprised that I should so far mistake him. “No, sir," says he, “I
do not mean that you should now separate them, but legally and effectually marr them now.
And as, sir, my way of marrying may not be so easy to reconcile them to, thong it will be
as effectual, even by your own laws; so your way may be as well before God, and as valid
among men; I mean, by a written contract, signed by both man and woman, and by all the
witnesses present; which all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid.”
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual
impartiality in his discourse, as to his own party or church, and such true warmth for the pre-
serving people that he had no knowledge of, or relation to; I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God; the like of which I had indeed not met with anywhere. But
recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written contract, which I knew would
stand too, I returned it back u on him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be just,
and, on his part, very kind; t at I would discourse with the men upon the point now, when I
came to them. And I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them all;
which I knew well enough would be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as if the
were married b one of our own clergymen. What was afterwards done in this matter, I sha
speak of by itse f.
I then pressed him to tell me, what was the second complaint which he had to make ; acknow-
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 195
told me he would use the same freedom and plainnéss in the second; and hoped I would take
it as well: and this was, that notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as he called them,
had lived with those women for almost seven years, had taught them to speak English, and
even to read it; and that they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and
capable of instruction; yet they had not to this hour taught them anything of the Christian
religion; no, not so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served; or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew not who, was
false and absurd.
“This,” he said, “was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them
to account for; and perhaps, at last, take the work out of their hands.” He spoke this very
affectionately and warmly. “I am persuaded,” says he, “had-those men lived in the sava e
country, whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains to have broug t
them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far as he could see, had
taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, sir,” said he, “though I
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see the devil’s servants,
and the subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general principles of the Christian religion;
that they might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future
state, things which we all believe; they had at least been so much nearer coming into the bosom
of the true Church than they are now in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship.”
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced him with an excess of passion.
“How far,” said I to him, “ have I been from understanding the most essential part of a
Christian, viz., to love the interest of the Christian Church, and the good of other men’s souls !
I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.” “ O, sir, do not say so,” replied he :
“ this thing is not your fault.” “ No,” said I, “ but why did I never lay it to heart as well as
you ?” “’Tis not too late yet,” said he; “be not too forward to condemn yourself.” “ But
what can be done now ?” said I; “ you see I am going awa .” “ Will you give me leave,” said
he, “to talk with those poor men about it?”2“ Yes, wit all my heart,” said I, “and will
N
obligp them to give heed to what you say too.” “ As to that,” said he, " we must leave them
to t e mercy of Christ; but ‘tis our business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct
them; and if you will give me leave, and God His blessing, I do not doubt but the poor
i norant souls shall be brought home into the great circle of Christianity, if not into the par-
ticular faith that we all embrace, and that even while you stay here.” U on this,” I said, “I
shall not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What followed on this
account, I shall mention also again in its place.
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame. “ Why, really,” says he,
“’tis of the same nature, and I will proceed, asking your leave, with the same plainness as
before. It is about your poor savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It
is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of what Church or
pretended Church soever, viz., ' the Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible
means, and on all possible occasions.’ It is on this principle that our Church sends mis-
sionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly
en age in the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence, among murderers
and barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to embrace
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity here, to have six or seven and thirty
poor savages brought over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer,
that I wonder how on can pass suc an occasion of doing good, which is really worth the
ex ense of a man’s whole life.”
was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I had here a spirit of true
Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his particular principles be of what kind soever.
As for me, I had not so much as entertained a thought of this in my heart before; and, I
believe, should not have thought of it, for I looked upon these savages as slaves and people who,
had we any work for them to do, we would have used as such, or would have been glad to have
transported them to any other part of the world; for our business was to get rid of them, and
196 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
their own. But, to the case: I say, I was confounded at ’s discourse, and knew not what
answer to make him. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder. “ Sir,” says he,
“ I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence." “No, no,” says I, “ I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfect y confounded, not only to think that I should
196 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
now. You know, sir,” said I, “ what circumstances I am in. I am bound to the East Indies
in a ship freighted b merchants, and to whom it would be an insufferable piece of injustice
to detain their ship ere, the men lying all this while at victuals and wages upon the owner’s
account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I sta more I must pay
31. sterling per diem demurrage; nor can I sta upon demurrage above eig t days more, and I
have been here thirteen days already, so that Iy am perfectly unable to engage in this work,
unless I would suffer myself to be left behind here again, in which case, if this single ship
should miscarry in any part of her voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was
196 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage, but laid it home upon my con-
science whether the blessing of saving seven and thirty souls was not worth my venturing all I
had in the world for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I returned upon him thus:
“ Why, sir, it is a valuable thing indeed to be an instrument in God’s hand to convert seven and
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to
the work, so that it seems naturally to fall into the way of your profession, how is it that you
do not rather offer yourself to undertake it than press me to it ?”
Upon this he faced about, just before me, as he walked along, and, putting me to a full stop,
made me a very low bow. “I most heartily thank God, and you, sir,” says he, “for giving me
so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire
me to undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards
196 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
at last into so glorious a work.”
Idiscovered a kind of re ture in his face while he spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the or 'nary rate of men, not of his pro-
fession only, but even of any profession whatsoever; but, after I had considered it a while, I
asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would venture, on the single consideration
of an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps his life,
and at last might not know whether he should be able to do them any good or not.
He turned short u on me and asked me what I called a venture? “Pray, sir,” said he,
“what do you think consented to go in your shi to the East Indies for ? ” “ Nay,” said I,
“that I know not, unless it. was to preach to the In ians.” “ Doubtless it was,” said he. “ And
do you think, if I can convert these seven-and-thirty men to the faith of Christ, it is not worth
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the lives of twenty more of the same
profession? Yes, sir,” says he, “ I would give Christ and the Blessed Virgin thanks all my
days if I could be made the least happy instrument of saving the souls of these poor men,
though I was never to set my foot of? of this island, or see my native country any more. But
since you will honour me,” says he, “ with putting me into this work (for which I will pray for
you all the days of my life), I have one hum le petition to you,” said he, “besides.” “ What is
that?” said I. “ Why,” says he, “it is that you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my
interpreter to them, and to assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak to them or they
to me.”
I was sensibl troubled at his requesting Friday, because I could not think of parting with
him, and that or many reasons; he had been the companion of my travels; he was not only
faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to do some-
thing considerable for him if he out-lived me, as it was probable he would; then I knew that as
I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to bring him to embrace
another profession, and he would never, while his eyes were o en, believe his old master was a
heretic and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin t e poor fellow’s principles, and so
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
However, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could
not say that I was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever, though a work, that
to him was of more value than his life, ought to be to me of much more value than the keeping
or parting with a servant. But, on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by no
means consent to part with me, and I could not force him to it without his consent, without
manifest injustice, because I had promised I would never put him away, and he had promised
and engaged to me that he would never leave me unless I put him away.
He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to these poor people, see-
ing he did not understand one word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove this
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert them, but Providence gave another
and very happy turn to all this. -
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
for them altogether, and after some account given them of what I had done for them, viz. what
necessary things I had provided for them, and how the were distributed, which they were very
sensible of and very thankful for: I began to talk to t cm of the scandalous life they led, and
gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman had already taken of it; and, arguing how
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 197
bachelors ? They soon explained their condition to me, and showed me that two of them were
widowers and the other three were single men or bachelors. I asked them with what con-
sciences the could take these women and lie with them as they had done, call them their
wives, and ave so many children by them, and not be married lawfully to them?
They all gave me the answer that I expected, viz. that there was nobody to marry them ;
that they agreed before the governor to kee them as their wives. and to keep them, and own
them, as their wives; and they thought as things stood with them they were as legally married
as if they had been married by a parson and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and were bound in con-
science to keep them as their wives; but that the laws of men being otherwise, they might
pretend the were not married, and so desert the poor women and children hereafter; and that
their wives, eing poor desolate women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help
themselves. I, therefore, told them that unless I was assured of their honest intent I could
do nothing for them, but would take care that what I did should be for the women and their
children without them; and that unless they would give some assurances that they would marry
the women, I could not think it was convenient they should continue together as man and wife;
for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could not think would
bless them if they went on thus. I .
All this went on as I expected; and they told me, especially Will Atkins, who seemed now
to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives as well as if the had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them upon any account w atever, and the did veril
believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of their s '11, as mu
for them and for their children as an women could possibly do, and they would not part with
them on any account. And Will At ins, for his own particular, added, if an man would take
him away and offer to carry him home to England and make him captain o the best man-of-
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might not carry his wife and children with him;
and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to her now with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was not with me at that moment, but was not far
off. So, to try him farther, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, I
would have him mari’ied the next morning; and bid him consider of it, and talk with the rest.
He said, as for himself, he need not consider of it at all; for he was very ready to do it, and
was led I had a minister with me; and he believed they would be all willing also. I then
told im that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman and could not speak English, but that
I would act the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist
or Protestant, which was indeed what I was afraid of. But, I say, they never inquired about
it. So we parted. I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atln’ns went in to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to say anything to them till the business was
thoroughl ripe, and I told him what answer the men had given me.
Before went from their quarter, they all came to me and told me they had been considering
what I had said; that they were very glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and they
were very willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married as soon as I
pleased, for they were far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant nothing
ut what was very honest when they chose them; so I appointed them to meet me the next
morning, and that, in the meantime, they should let their wives know the meaning of the mar-
riage law, and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that they
should not forsake them whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were very well satis-
198 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
apartment, the next morning, where I brought out my cler yman; and, though he had not on
a minister’s gown, after the manner of England, or the haIit of a priest, after the manner of
France, yet having a black vest, something like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did not
look very unlike a minister; and as for his language, I was his interpreter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour to them and the samples he made of marrying the
women, because they were not baptized and professed Christians, gave them an exceeding
reverence for his person, and there was no need after that to inquire whether he was a, clergy-
man or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been carried so far as that he would not have
married them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him, he resisted me, though
_7:
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
at last I agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him with their circum-
stances and with the present design; that he was very willing to erform that part of his
functions and marry them as I had desired; but that before he could do it he must take the
liberty to talk with them; he told them that in the sight of all indifferent men and in the
sense of the laws of society they had lived all this while in open adultery, and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry or effectually separating them from one another now
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
fessed Christian to a sav e, an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not ba tized; and yet
that he did not see that t ere was time left for it, to endeavour to persuade t e women to be
baptized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and
without which they could not be baptized.
He told them he doubted they were but indifferent Christians themselves ; that they had but
little knowledge of God or of His ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had said
much to their wives on that head yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their
endeavour with their wives to persuade them to become Christians and would as well as they
could instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to worship Jesus
Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he would have no hand in Joining
Christians with savages; nor was it consistent with the principles of the Christian religion;
and was, indeed, ex ressly forbidden in God’s law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully to them, from his
mouth, as near his own words as I could, only sometimes adding something of my own, to
convince them how just it was, and how I was of his mind. And I always very faithfully
distinguished between what I said from myself and what were the clergyman’s words. They
told me it was very true what the gentleman had said, that they were but very indifferent I
Christians themselves, and that the had never talked to their wives about religion. “ Lord,
sir,” says Will Atkins, “ how shoul we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing ourselves,
and besides, sir,” said he, “ should we go to talk to them of God and Jesus Christ and heaven
and hell, it would be to make them laugh at us and ask us what we believe ourselves ? And
if we should tell them we believe all the things that we speak of to them, such as of good
people going to heaven and wicked eople to the devil, they would ask us where we intend to
go ourselves that believe all this and) are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are. Why, sir, it is
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
selves before they pretend to teach other peo 1e.” “ Will Atkins,” said I to him, “ though I
am afraid what you say has too much trut in it, yet can you not tell your wife that she is in
the wrong? that there is a God and a religion better than her own; that her ]gods are idols;
that they can neither hear not speak; that there is a great Being that made allt ings, and that
can destroy all that He had made; that He rewards the good, and punishes the bad; and that
we are to be judged by Him at last for all we do here; you are not so ignorant, but even nature
T lze Lzfe and Adz/xtures of Rabinsan Crusoe. 199‘
it oursel .”
i,‘ That is true, sir,” said Atkins; “but with what face can I say anything to my wife of all
this, when she will tell me immediately, it cannot be true? ”
“Not true,” said I,—-“ What do you mean by that?” “ \Vhy, sir,” said he, “ she will tell me
it cannot be true, that this God (I shall tell her of) can be just, or can punish or reward, since
I am not punished, and sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature as she knows
I have been, even to her and to everybody else; and that I should he suffered to live, that have
been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have
done.”
"Why, truly, Atkins,” said I, “ I am afraid thou speakest too much truth; ” and with that I
let the clergyman know what Atkins had said; for he was impatient to know. “ O l ” said the
priest, “tell him there is one thing will make him the best minister in the world to his wife,
and that is repentance: for none teach repentance like true penitents. He wants nothing but
200 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsmz Crusoe.
able to tell her, that there is not only a God, and that He is the just rewarder of good and evil;
200 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinsmz Crusoe.
punish those that offend; waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but
rather that he should return and live ; that oftentimes suffers wicked men to go on for a long
time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence
of God, and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their
punishment, till they come into another world; and this will lead him to teach his wife the
doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last judgment; let him but repent for himself, he will
be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife.”
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while, and who, we could easily
perceive, was more than Ordinarily affected with it; when being eager and hardly suffering me
to make an end—“ I know all this, master," says he, “ and a great deal more; but I have not
the impudence to talk thus to my wife; when God, and my own conscience knows, and my wife
will be an undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God,
or future state, or anything about it; and to talk of my repeuting, alas! (and with that he
fetched a deep sigh: and I could see that tears stood in his eyes) it is ast all that with
me.” “Past it! Atkins,” said I, “What dost thou mean by that?" “I now well enough
what I'mean,” says he; “ I mean ’tis too late; and that is too true.”
I told my clergyman word for word what he said; the poor zealous priest (I must call him
so, for be his opinion what it will, he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of
other men’s souls; and it would be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I say, this
zealous, affectionate man) could not refrain tears also. But recovering himself, he said to me,
“Ask him but one question. Is he easy that it is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were
not so? ” I put the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of passion,
“How could any man be easy in a condition that certainly must end in eternal destruction P
That he was far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would one time or
the other ruin him.”
“What do you mean by that? ” said I. “ Why,” he said, “ he believed he should one day or
other cut his throat, to put an end to the terror of i .”
The clergyman shook his head, with a great concern in his face when I told him all this;
but, turning quick to me upon it, says he, “ If that be his case, you may assure him it is not too
late; Christ will give him repentance.” “ But pray,” says he, “ explain this to him, that as no
man is saved but by Christ, and the merit of His passion procuring Divine mercy for him, how
can it be too late for any man to receive mercy ? Does he think he is able to sin beyond the
power or reach of Divine mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a time when provoked mercy
will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to hear; but that it is never too late for men
to ask mercy; and we that are Christ’s servants are commanded to preach mercy at all times,
in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent; so that ‘tis never too late to
re out."
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned
of f the discourse to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and have some talk with his wife;
so he went out awhile, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant,
as to matters of religion; much as I was when I went rambling away from my father; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what had been said; and all of them seriously
promised, that they would talk with their wives about it, and do their endeavour to persuade
them to turn Christians. '
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what answer they gave, but said nothing a
good while; but at last, shaking his head, “ We that are Christ’s servants,” says he, “ can go no
farther than to exhort and instruct; and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and promise
what we ask, ‘tis all we can do ; we are bound to accept their good words; but, believe me, sir,”
said he, “whatever you may know of the life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is
‘\
1
 m
. -_1
§@?;;
.35.
A'IKIXS CONVERTING HIS NATIVE WIFE.
Page 20i.
the only sincere convert among them: I take that man to be a true penitent; I will not despair
of the rest; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of his past life ; and I doubt not,
but when he comes to talk religion to his wife, he will talk himself effectually into it; for
attempting to teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I knew a man,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/zs011 Crusoe. 20!
to the last degree in his life, made a thorough re ormatiou in himself, by labouring to convert
a Jew; if that poor Atkins be ins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life
for it, he talks himself into a t orough convert, makes himself a penitent ; and who knows what
may follow? ”
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising as above, to endeavour to persuade their
wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other three couple; but Will Atkins and his
wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to know
where Atkins was gone; and, turning to me, says he, “ I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of our
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/zs011 Crusoe. 20!
seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something of religion.” I began to be of the
same mind; so we went out together; and I carried him a way which none knew but myself,
and where the trees were so thick set, as that it was not easy to see through the thicket of
leaves, and far harder to see in, than to see out; when coming to the edge of the wood, I saw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse.
I stopped short, till in clergyman came u to me; and then, having shown him where they
were, we stood and 1oo ed very steadily at t em a good while.
We observed him ver earnest with her, pointing u to the sun and to every quarter of the
heavens; then down to t e earth, then out to the sea, t en to himself, then to her, to the woods,
to the trees. “ Now,” says my clergyman, “you see my words are made good; the man
reaches to her; mark him; now he is telling her that our God has made him, and her, and the
lieavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &0.” “ I believe he is,” said I. Immediately
we perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his
hands ; we suppose he said something, but we could not hear him : it was too far for that : he
did not continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks
to her again. We perceived then the woman very attentive; but whether she said anything or
no, we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the tears run
plentifully down my clergyman’s cheeks; and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rodi/zs011 Crusoe. 20!
them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them : so we resolved to see
an end of this piece of still conversation; and it spoke loud enough to us, without the help of
voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to her; and
two or three times we could see him embrace her most passionately ; another time we saw him
take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of transport
very unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him on a sudden ’ump up again, and
lend her his hand to help her up; when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, “ St. Paul, St. Paul! behold he
prayeth ! ”-—-I was afraid Atkins would hear him; therefore I entreated him to withhold him-
self awhile, that we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most
affecting, and at the most a reeable, that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with himself,
and contained imself for aw ile, but was in such raptures of joy to think that the poor heathen
woman was become a Christian, that he was not able to contain himself, he wept several times :
then throwing up his hands, and crossing his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and
by way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours;
some he spoke softl , and I could not well hear; others andibly; some in Latin, some in French;
then two or three times the tears of joy would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all.
But I begged that he would compose himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what
was before us, which he did for a time, and the scene was not ended there yet; for after the
poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talking still
eagerly to her; and we observed by her motion that she was greatly affected with what he said,
by her frequent lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures,
as usually express the greatest seriousness and attention. This continued about half a quarter
of an hour, and then they walked away too; so that we could see no more of them in that
situation.
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
ticulars we had both been witnesses to; that though I was hard enough of belief in such cases,
et that I began to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however
ignorant they might both be; and I hoped such a beginning would have a yet more happy end :_
and “who knows,” said I, “ but these two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon
some of the other?” “Some of them!” said he, turning quick u on me, “ay, upon all of them:
depend u on it, if those two savages (for he has been but little etter, as you relate it), should
embrace esus Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is
naturall communicative; and he that is once made a Christian will never leave a pagan behind
him, if - e can help it.” I owned it was a most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony
of a true zeal, as well as a generous heart in him. “ But, my friend," said I, “ will you give me
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
tionate concern which you show for the turning the poor people from their paganism to the
Christian religion: but how does this comfort you, while these people are, in your account, out
of the pale of the Catholic church, without which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteem? these but heretics; and, for other reasons, as effectually lost as the pagans them-
selves ”
To this he answered with abundance of candour and Christian charity, thus. “ Sir, I am a
Catholic of the Roman Church, and a priest of the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the
principles of the Roman faith. But yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in com~
pliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances, and your civilities; I say, nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, without some charity. I dare not say, though
I know it is our opinion in general; I say, I dare not say that you cannot be saved; I will by
no means limit the mercy of Christ, so far as to think that He cannot receive you into the bosom
of His Church, in a manner, to us unperceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know;
and I hope you have the same charity for us. I pray daily for your being all restored to Christ’s
church, by whatsoever methods He, who is all wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean time, sure,
you will allow it to consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and
a pagan: between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not think is
according to the true faith, and a savage, a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no
Redeemer. And if on are not within the ale of the Catholic church, we hope you are
nearer being restore to it, than those that mow nothing of God, or His church. And I
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
murderer, kneel down and ray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully
enlightened; believing that od, from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the farther knowledge of the truth in His own time : and if God shall
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
that he shall be cast away himself ; and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer any are
brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they may not be brought quite home into the bosom
of the Catholic Church, just at the time when I may desire it; leaving it to the goodness of
Christ to perfect His work in His own time and in His own way ? Certainly I would rejoice,
if all the savages in America were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
202 77w Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
them with abeam of His heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His Church, when He
should see good.”
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly pious Papist, as much as I was
oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such
a temper was universal, we might be all Catholic Christians, whatever Church or particular
profession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into
right 1principles; and, in a word, as he thought that the like charity would make us all
Catho cs. so I told him, I believed, had all the members of his Church the like moderation,
they would soon be all Protestants. And there we left that art, for we never disputed at all.
However, I talked to him another way; and, taking him y the hand, “ My friend,” says I,
“I wish all the clergy of the Roman church were blessed with such moderation, and had an
equal share of your charity. I am entirely of our opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, t ey would put you into the Inquisition.”
“ It may be so," said he; “ I know not what they might do in Spain or Italy; but I will not
say they would be the better Christians for that severity: for I am sure there is no heresy in
too much charity.”
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife was gone, our business there was over; so we went back
our own way; and when we came back, we found them waiting to be called in. Observing
this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that we had seen him under the bush
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 20 3
what he would say to us: so we called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves;
and I began with him thus :—
“ Will Atkins," said I, “ prithee what education had you? What was your father ? "
TV. A. “A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father was a clergyman.”
R. C’. “ What education did he give you ?”
W’. A. “He would have taught me well, sir; but I despised all education, instruction, or
correction, like a beast as I was.”
R. C. “ It’s true, Solomon says, ‘ he that despises reproof is brutis .
TV. A. “Ay, sir, I was brntish indeed; I murdered my father: for God’s sake, sir, talk no
more about that, sir; I murdered my poor father.”
Priest. “ Ha! a murderer!”
[Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke it) and looked pale. It
seems he believed that Will had really killed his own father.]
R. C’. “ No, no, sir, I do not understand him so. Will Atkins, explain yourself; you did not
kill your father, did on, with your own hands?"
‘IV. A. “ N o, sir, did not cut his throat; but I cut the thread of all his comfo'ts, and
shortened his days; I broke his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most
tender, affectionate treatment that ever father gave, or child could receive.”
R. C. “ Well, I did not ask you about your father, to extort this confession; I ra God
give you repentance for it, and forgive you that, and all your other sins: but I as c you,
'because I see that though you have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some
are, in things that are good; that you have known more of religion a great deal than you have
ractised.”
p W A. “ Though you, sir, did not extort the confession that I make about my father, con-
science does; and whenever we come to look back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 20 3
the leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit.”
g. C. “ You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins; I cannot bear it.”
17. A. “ You bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.”
R. O'. “ Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I ma say, every tree in this island, is
witness to the anguish of my soul, for my ingratitude and ass usage of a good tender father;
a father much like yours, by your description; and I murdered my father as well as you, Will
Atkins; but I think, for all that, my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.”
[I would have said more, if I could have restrained my passions; but I thought this poor
man’s repentance was so much sincerer than mine, that I was going to leave off the discourse,
and retire, for I was surprised with what he said; and thought that instead of my going about
to teach and instruct him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to me, in amost sur-
prising and unexpected mannen]
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected with it, and said to me,
“Did I not say, sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach to us all ? I tell you,
sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make Chris~
tians of all in the island." But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with
Will Atkins.
“ But Will,” said I, “ how comes the sense of this matter to touch you just now ?"
W A. “ Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart through my very soul; I
have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a
Christian of her; and she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I
live.” '
R. O. “ No, no; it is not your wife has preached to you : but when you were moving religious
204 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
A. “ Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be resisted.”
R. C. “ Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife; for I know some-
thin of it already.”
. A. “ Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it: I am too full to hold it, and yet
have no tongue to express: but let her have said what she will, and though I cannot give you
an account of it, this I can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my life.”
R. 0'. “ But tell us some of it. How did on begin, Will? For this has been an extraordi-
nary case. that is certain; she has preache a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon
o11.’, 
204 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
were that men and women were obliged to enter into such compacts, as it was neither in the
power of one or other to break; that otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and
men would run from their wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one another,
and neither families be kept entire, or inheritances be settled by legal descent.”
R. C. “ You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her understand what you meant by
inheritance and families ? They know no such thing among the savages, but marry any how,
without re ard to relation, consanguinity, or family; brother and sister, nay, as I have been
told, even t e father and daughter, and son and the mother.”
W. A. “I believe, sir, you are misinformed ;—and my wife assures me of the contrary, and
that they abhor it. Perhaps, for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are;
but she tells me they never touch one another in the near relations you speak of.”
R. C. “ Well, what did she say to what you told her ?”
W A. “ She said she liked it very well; and it was much better than in her country.”
R. C’. “ But did you not tell her what marriage was ?”
W A. “ , ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked her, if she would be married to me
our way ? S e asked me, What we that was. I told her marriage was appointed by God;
and here we had a strange talk toget er indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe.”
[N.B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his wife, as I took it down in writing just after
he told it me, was as follows :——]
14717 e. “ Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your country?”
. A. “ Yes, my dear, God is in every country."
Wye. “ N o you God in my country; my countr have the great old Benamuckee God."
204 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is.”
TVif‘e. “ No makee dc earth; no you God make all earth; no make my country.”
[W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not making her country]
Wfe. “ No laugh. Why laugh me ? This no thing to laugh."
204 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae.
W A. “ That is true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear."
Wife. “Why you say, you God make all ?”
W A. “Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and I, and all things; for He is
the only true God; there is no God but Him; He lives for ever in heaven.”
TV’WQfe. “Why you no tell me long aigo ?"
. A. “ That is true indeed; but have been a wicked wretch, and have not only forgotten
to acquaint thee with anything before, but have lived without God in the world myself."
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiman Crusoe. 205
Him ? No do good thing for Him ? That no possible!”
W A. “ It is too true; though, for all that, we live as if there was no God in heaven, or that
He had no power on eart ."
We. “ But why God let you do so? Why He no makee you good live?"
. A. “ It is all our own fault."
mfe. “But you say me, He is great, much great, have much great power; can makee kill
when He will: why He no makee kill when you no serve Him ? No say ‘ O ’ to Him ? No be
good mans?"
W A. “ That is true; He might strike me dead, and I ought to expect it; for I have been a
wicked wretch, that is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve."
We. “ But, then, do not you tell God tankee for that too?"
. A. “No, indeed; I have not thanked God for His mercy any more than I have feared
God for His power.”
Wife. “Then you God no God; me no think, believe He be such one, great much power,
strong: no makee kill you, though you makee Him much angry ? "
W. A. “What! will my wicked life hinder on from believing in God? What a dreadful
creature am I! And what a sad truth is it, t at the horrid lives of Christians hinders the
conversions of heathensl "
W’ife. “ How me tink you have great much God up there (she points u to heaven), and yet
no do well, no do good thing ? Can He tell? Sure He no tell what you o ?”
W. A. “ Yes, es, He knows and sees all things; He hears us speak, sees what we do, knows
what we think, t ough we do not spea .”
mfe. “ What ! He no hear you swear, curse, speak the great damn?"
W. A. “ Yes, yes, He hears it all."
We. “ Where be then the muchee great power strong?”
. A. “ He is merciful; that is all we can say for it; and this proves Him to be the true
God; He is God, and not man ; and therefore we are not consumed."
[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror to think how he could tell his wife so
clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we
do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things he had done]
IVif’e. “ Merciful ! what you call that ?"
W A. “ He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and spares us."
mfe. “ So then He never makee kill, never angry when you do wicked; then He no good
Himself, or no great able."
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiman Crusoe. 205
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiman Crusoe. 205
make examples. Many are cut off in their sins.”
Wife. “But no make kill you yet; then He tell on, maybe, that He no make you kill, so
vou make de bargain with Him, you do bad thing, e no be angry at you, when He be angry
at other mans ? "
W A. “ No, indeed; my sins are all resumptions upon His goodness, and He would be
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiman Crusoe. 205
IVife. “ Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead? What you say to Him for that? You
no tell Him tankee for all that too ! "
TV. A. “ I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.”
’Wife. “ Why He no makee you much ood better ? You say He makee you."
TV. A. “ He made me as He made all t e world. It is I have deformed myself, and abused
His oodness, and made myself an abominable wretch."
175a “I wish you makee God know me; I no makee Him angry; I no do bad wicked
thing.’I
[Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him to hear a poor untaught creature desire
to be taught to know God, and he such a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her
about God but what the reproach of his own carriage would make most irrational to her to
believe; nay, that already she had told him that she could not believe in God because he that
was so wicked was not destroyed] -
'W. A. “ My dear, you mean you wish I could teach you to know God, not God to know you;
for He knows you already, and every thought in your heart.”
I/Wfe. “Why then He know what I say to you now; He know me wish to know Him; how
shall me know who makee me ?”
W A. “ Poor creature; He must teach thee ; I cannot teach thee; I’ll pray to Him to teach
thee to know Him, and to for ive me that I am unworthy to teach thee."
[The poor fellow was in suc an a ony at her desiring him to make her know God, and her
wishing to know Him, that he said e fell down on his knees before her, and prayed to God to
enlighten her mind with the saving knowled e of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and
accept of his being the unworthy instrument o instructing her in the principles of religion;
after which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on.]
N .B. This was the time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands.
mfe. “ What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand for? What you
say ? Who you speak to? What is all that?”
W A. “ My dear, I bow my knees in token of my submission to Him that made me : I said
' O ’ to Him, as you call it, and as you say your old men do to their idol Benamuckee ; that is,
I prayed to Him.”
IVife. “ What you say ' O ’ to Him for ?"
W A. “ I prayed to Him to open your eyes and your understanding, that you inay know
Him, and be accepted by Him.” ".3
Wife. “ Can He do that too? "
'W. A. “Yes, He can; He can do all things.”
W'if’e. “ But now He hear what you say ? ”
W. A. “ Yes, He has bid us pray to Him; and promised to hear us.
Wig?,“ Bid you pray ? When He bid you ? How He bid you ? What! you hear Him
5 ea
pW. A. “ No, we do not hear Him speak; but He has revealed Himself many ways to us.”
[Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has revealed Himself to us by
His word; and what His word was: but at last he told it her thus :——]
'W. A. “God has s oken to some good men in former days, even from heaven, by plain words;
iandk God has inspired] good men, by His Spirit; and they have written all His laws down in a
00 .”
Wife. “ Me no understand that; where is book ? ”
W. A. “Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I shall; one time or other,
get it for you, and hel you ta‘read it.”
B [HeJre he embraced er with great affection; but with inexpressible grief, that he had not a
ible.
Wife. “ But how you makee me know, that God teachee them to write that book ? ”
W A. “ B the same rule that we know Him to be God.”
’Wif’e. “ W at rule; what way you know.”
’W. A. “ Because He teaches and commands nothing but what is good, righteous, and holy;
and tends to make us perfectl good, as well as perfectly happy; and because He forbids and
commands us to avoid all that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.”
Wife. “ That me would understand, that me fain see; if He teachee all good thing, forbid all
wicked thing, He reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing, He makee all thing, He give
all thing; He hear me when I say ‘0’ to Him, as you go do just now; He makee me good, if I
wish be good; He spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good; all this you sa He do; yet
He be great God; me take, think, believe Him be great God; me say ‘0’ to im too, with
you, my dear.”
Here the poor man could forbear no longer; but raising her up, made her kneel by him; and
he prayed to God aloud, to instruct her in the knowledge of Himself, by His Spirit; and that
by some good providence, if possible, she might some time or other come to have a Bible, that
she might read the Word of God, and be taught by it to know Him.
This was the time that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel down by her
as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to set down here; and par-
ticularly she made him promise, that since he confessed his own life had been a wicked abomi-
nable course of provocations against God, that he would reform it, and not make God angr
any more, lest He should make him dead, as she called it, and then she should be left alone,
and never be tau ht to know this God better; and lest he should be miserable, as he told her
wicked men should be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but particularly to the young
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe. 267
imaginable, that he could not talk to her; that he could not speak English to make her under-
stand him; and as she spoke but very broken English, he could not understand her. However,
he turned himself to me, and told me, that he believed there must be more to do with this
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe. 267
self, viz. that she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about it presently. “ N o, no; hold,
sir,” said he, “though I would have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe, that
Will Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to
embrace a religious life ; and has given her just ideas of the being of a God, of His power, 'ustice,
mercy; yet I desire to know of him, if he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ, an of the
salvation cf sinners; of the nature of faith in Him; and redemption by Him; of the Holy
Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state."
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor fellow fell immediately into te rs
and told us, he had said something to her of all those things, but that he was himself so wic ed
a creature, and his own conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly life, that he
trembled at the apprehensions, that her knowledge of Him should lessen the attention she
should give to those things, and make her rather contemn religion than receive it; but he was
assured, he said, that her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those things,
that if I would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction, that my
labour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter, between my religious priest
and the woman, I entreated him to begin with her; but sure such a sermon was never preached
by a pgpish priest in these latter ages of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had all
the ze , all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman
Catholic; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were, before the
church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.
In a word, he brought the oor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe. 267
joy and faith, with an affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to be imagined,
much less to be expressed; and at her own request she was baptized.
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe. 267
with some caution, t at the man might not perceive he was of the Roman c urch, if possible;
because of other ill consequences which might attend a difference among us in that very religion
which we were instructing the other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel, no
The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoe. 267
it tliat he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before; and so he did; for
saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a
whole dish full of water upon the woman’s head, pronouncing in French very loud, “Mary ”
(which was the name her husband desired me to give her, for I was her godfather), “I baptize
thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;” so that none could
know anything by it, what religion he was of; he gave the benediction afterwards in Latin; but
either Will Atkins did not know but it was in French, or else did not take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the marriage was over, he turned him-
self to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere in
that good disposition he was in, but to support the convictions that were upon him, by a reso-
lution to reform his life; told him, it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his
crimes ; represented to him, how God had honoured him with being the instrument of bringing
his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be careful he did not
dishonour the grace of God; and that if he did, he would see the heathen a better Christian
than himself; the savage converted, and the instrument cast away.
He said a great many good things to them both, and then recpmmending them, in a few
words, to God’s goodness; gave them the benediction again, I repeating everything to them in
English. And thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant, agreeable day to
me, that ever I passed in my whole life.
But my clergyman had not done yet, his thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of
the seven-and-thirty savages; and fain he would have stayed upon the islandto have under-
208 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being done, in is absence, to his satis-
faction; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affair of the island to a narrow compass, I was re aring to go on
board the ship, when the young man who I had taken out of the famished siiip’s company,
came to me, and told me, he understood I had a clergyman with me, and that I had caused the
Englishmen to be married to the savages, whom they called wives; that he had a match too,
208 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
would not be disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the oung woman who was his mother’s servant, for there was no other
Christian woman on the is and; so I began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind
rashly, or because he found himself in this solitary circumstance. I represented to him, that
he had some considerable substance in the world and good friends, as I understood by himself,
and by his maid also; that the maid was not only oor, and a servant, but was unequal to him,
she being six or seven and twenty years old, and e not above seventeen or eighteen; that he
might very probably, with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, and come into
his own country again: and that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his
choice; and the dislike of that circumstance might be disadvantageous to both. I was going
to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling; and told me, with a great deal of modesty, that
I mistook in my guesses ; that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present circum-
stance being melancholy and disconsolate enough ; and he was very glad to hear, that I had
thoughts of puttin them in a way to see their country again; and nothing should have put
him upon staying t ere, but that the voya e I was going was so exceedingly long and hazardous,
and would carry him quite out of the reac of all his friends ; that he had nothing to desire of
me, but that I would settle him in some little propert in the island where he was; give him a
servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he woul settle himself like a planter, waiting the
good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would redeem him, and hoped I would not be
unmindful of him when I came into England; that he would give me some letters to his friends
in London, to let them know how good I had been to him, and in what part of the world, and
what circumstance I had left him in ; that he promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and all the improvements he had made upon it, let the value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth; and was the more agreeable
to me, because he told me positively the match was not for himself. I gave him all possible
assurances, that if I lived to come safe to En land, I would deliver his letters, and do his
business effectually; and that he might depend I would never forget the circumstance I left
him in; but still I was impatient to know who was the personto be married. Upon which
he told me it was my Jack of all Trades, and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match; for indeed I thought it very suitable.
The character of that man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest,
modest, sober and religious youn woman; had a ver good share of sense; was agreeable
enough in her person; spoke very iandsomely, and to the purpose; always with decency and
good manners, and not backward to speak when anything required it, or impertinently forward
to speak When it was not her business ; very handy and housewifely in anything that was before
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 209
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 209
an t ere.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the same day; and, as I was
father at the altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for I a pointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for their plantation; and in eed this
match, and the proposal the young gentleman made, to give him a small property in the island,
put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that they might not quarrel afterwards about
their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who, indeed, was now grown a most
sober, grave, managing fellow; perfectly reformed, exceedin ly pious and religious; and, as far
as I may be allowed to speak positively in such a case, lgverily believe, was a true sincere
enitent.
p He divided things so justly, and so much to every one’s satisfaction, that they only desired
one general writing under my hand for the whole ; which I caused to be drawn up, and signed
and sealed to them; settin out the bounds and situation of every man’s plantation, and testi-
fyin , that I gave them thereby, severally, a right to the whole possession and the inheritance
of t e respective plantations or farms, with their improvements, to them and their heirs ;
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in my name, came to demand it, pro-
ducing an attested copy of the same writin .
As to the government and laws among t em, I told them I was not capable of giving them
better rules than they were able to give themselves; only made them promise me, to live in
love and good neighbourhood with one another: and so I prepared to leave them.
One thing I must not omit; and this is, that bein now settled in a kind of commonwealth
among themselves, and having much business in han , it was but odd to have seven-and-thirty
Indians live in a nook of the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 209
manner of business or pro erty to manage: I proposed therefore to the governor S aniard, that
he should go to them wit Friday’s father, and propose to them to remove, and eit er plant for
themselves, or take them into their several families as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute slaves; for I would not admit them to make them slaves by
force, by any means, because they had their liberty given them by capitulation, and, as it were,
articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.
They_most willingl embraced the proposal, and came all very cheerfully alon with him; so
we allotted them lam? and plantations, which three or four accepted of, but all e rest chose to
be employed as servants in the several families we had settled ; and thus my colony was in a
manner settled, as follows: the Spaniards possessed my original habitation, which was the
capital city, and extended their plantations all along the side of the brook, which made the
creek that I have so often described, as far as my bower ; and as they increased their culture,
it went always eastward; the English lived in the north-east part, where W. Atkins and his
comrades began, and came on southward and south-west, towards the back part of the Spaniards;
and eve plantation had a reat addition of land to take in, if they found occasion; so that
the neg-d not jostle one anot er for want of room.
Z11 the east end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of the savages should come
on shore there, only for their usual customary barbarities, they might come and go; if they
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt but they were often ashore, and
went away again; for I never heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more.
0
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend the clergyman, that the work
of convertin the savages mi ht, perhaps, be set on foot in his absence, to his satisfaction; and
I told him, t at now I thong tit was put in a fair way; for the savages being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them do their part with those which came
under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect.
He agreed presently in that: “ If,” said he, “they will do their part; but how,” says he,
“ shall we obtain that of them ?” I told him we would call them all together, and leave it in
charge with them, or go to them one by one, which he thought best; so we divided it: he to
speak to the Spaniards, who were all Papists; and I to the English, who were all Protestants;
and we recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise, that they would never
make an distinction of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn Christians;
but teac them the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ; and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have any differences or disputes, one with
another, about religion.
When I came to W. Atkins’s house, I may call it so; for such a house, or such a piece of
basket-work, I believe was not standing in the world again; I say, when I came there, I found
the young woman I have mentioned above, and W. Atkins’s wife, were become intimates; and
this prudent, religious young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and
though it was not above four days after what I have related, et the new-baptized savage
woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any hike her, in all my observation
or conversation in the world.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before I went to them, that amongst all the
needful things I had to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible; in which I showed my-
self less considering for them, than my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent me
the cargo of a hundred pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-
book. However the good woman’s charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined; for
they were reserved for the comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of them
than I had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Will Atkins’s tent, or house, I
found the young woman, and Atkins’s baptized wife, had been discoursing of religion together;
for Will Atkins told it me, with a great deal of joy. I asked if they were together now. And
he said yes; so I went into the house, and he with me, and we found them together, very
earnest in discourse. “ O, sir,” says Will Atkins, “ when God has sinners to reconcile to
Himself, and aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger. My wife has got a new
instructor; I knew I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work; that young woman has
been sent hither from heaven; she is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The youn
woman blushed, and rose u to go awa , but I desired her to sit still; I told her she had a goo
work upon her hands, and hoped Go would bless her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not erceive the had any book among them, though I did not
ask; but I put my hand in my poc et, and p ed out my Bible. “ Here,” says I, to Atkins,
“ I have brought you an assistant, that, perhaps, you had not before.” The man was so con-
founded, that he was not able to speak for some time; but recovering himself, he takes it
with both his hands, and turning to his wife, “ Here, m dear,” sa s he, “did not I tell you,
our God though He lives above, could hear what we said Here’s t e book I rayed for, when
you and I kneeled down under the bush; now God has heard us, and sent it. ’ When he had
said thus, the man fell into such transports of a passionate jo , that between the joy of having
it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face li e a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake, that none of us were
210 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
true, that providentially it was so, and mi ht be taken so in a conse uent sense; but I believe
210 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
believed, that an express messenger came from heaven, on purpose to brin that individual
book; but it was too serious a matter to suffer any delusion to take place. o I turned to the
210 T/ze Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
more ignorant understanding of things; and begged her to explain to her, that God may be
very properly said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of His Providence, such things
are, m a particular manner, brought to pass, as we petitioned for; but we do not expect
returns from heaven, in a miraculous and particular manner; and that it is our mercy that it
is not so.
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
to have had it so: but the surprise of ’o upon Will Atkins is really not to be expressed; and
there, we may be sure there was no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the
world for anything of its kind, than he was for this Bible; nor, I believe, never any man was
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, 'ous, and wicked to a great degree, yet this man is a
standing rule to us all, for the well instructing children, viz. that parents should never give over
to teach and instruct, or ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let the children be ever
so obstinate, refractory, or, to appearance, insensible of instruction; for if ever God in His
Providence touches the consciences of such, the force of their education returns upon them, and
the early instruction of arents is not lost, though it may have been many years laid asleep;
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
Thus it was with this poor man. However ignorant he was, or divested of religion and
Christian knowledge, he found he had some to do with now, more ignorant than himself ; and
that th; least part of the instruction of his good father, that could now come to his mind, was of
use to im.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to insist much upon the
inex ressible value of the Bible; the privilege and blessing of it to nations, families, and persons;
but lie never entertained the least notion of the worth of it till now; when being to talk to
heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the present occasion, though she had one; and
so had the outh on board our ship, among their goods which were not yet brought on shore.
And now, having said so many things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling one story
more of her and myself, which has something in it very informing and remarkable.
I have related to what extremit the poor young woman was reduced; how her mistress was
starved to death, and did die, on ard that unhappy ship we met at sea; and how the whole
ship’s company being reduced to the last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
is to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger. .
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extremities they suffered, I asked her if she
could describe, by what she had felt, what it was to starve, and how it appeared. She told me
she believed she could, and she told her tale very distinctly thus :—
“ First, sir,” said she, “ we had for some days fared exceeding hard, and suffered very great
hunger; but now, at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, except sugar, and a ittle
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
yawning and sleepy; I laid down on a couch in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three
hours, and awaked a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I la down; after
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
and my stomach sickish, and laid down again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint and
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
again, with reachings to vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to bed again without
any food more than a draught of fair water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes,
and that the market was mightily stocked with provisions ; that I bought some for my mistress,
and went and dined very heartily.
“ I thought my stomach was as full after this as any would have been after, or at, a good
T he Lzfe and Aazzentures of Robinson Crusoe. 2! I
mity of famine. The last glass of wine we hadgI drank, and put sugar in it, because of its
0
having some spirit to supply nourishment; but, there being no substance in the stomach for
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
fumes from the stomach into the head, and I lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one
drunk, for some time.
“ The third day, in the morning, after a night of strange and confused inconsistent dreams,
and rather dozing than sleeping, I waked ravenous and furious with hun er; and I question,
had not my understandin returned and conquered it; I sa , I question w ether, if I had been
a mother, and had had a ittle child with me, its life would ave been safe or not.
“ This lasted about three hours, during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature
in Bedlam, as m young master told me, and as he can now inform you.
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
some slip of my foot, I know not, I fell down and struck my face against the corner of a pallet-
bed, in which my mistress lay; and with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and, the
cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and, as the blood
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
so did the ravenous art of the hunger.
“ Then I grew sick and reached to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my stomach
to bring up. After I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believed I was dead; but I
came to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be
described; not like the colic, but a gnawing, eager pain for food; and, towards night, it went off
with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food; somethin like, as I sup se, the longin
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again. Then I took a draught of water without sugar,
and that stayed with me; and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most hcartil that it
would please God to take me away, and, composing my mind in hopes of it, I s umbered
awhile; and then, waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapours from an empty
stomach. I recommended my soul then to God, and earnestly wished that somebody would
throw me into the sea.
“ All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring; but bore it with much
more patience than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young master,
who would not have taken it, but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved his life.
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
dreadful condition. Had my mistress been dead, as much as I oved her, I am certain I
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
At last I saw the basin, in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day before; I ran to
it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a eedy appetite, as if I had wondered nobody
had taken it before, and afraid it should be taken rom me now.
212 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
hunger; and I drank a draught of fair water, and was com osed and refreshed for some hours
after it. This was the fourth day; and thus I held it til towards night, when, within the
compass of three hours, I had all these several circumstances over again, one after another,
viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick again, then
lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour; and my strength
wasted exceedingly. At night I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I should
die before morning.
“ All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now turned into a disease; and I had a
terrible colic and griping; by wind, instead of food, having found its way into the bowels; and
in this condition I lay till morning, when Iwas surprised a little with the cries and lameutations
of my young master, who called out to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little,
for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was able to give very
little signs of life.
“ I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some sustenance, that I cannot
describe; with such frequent throes and angs of appetite that nothing but the tortures of
death can imitate; and in this condition was when I heard the seamen above cry out, ‘A
sail ! a sail ! ’ and halloo and jump about as if they were distracted.
“ I was not able to get off‘ from the bed, and my mistress much less; and my young master
was so sick, that I thought he had been expiring; so we could not open the cabin-door,
or et any account what it was that occasioned such a combustion; nor had we any conversation
wit the ship’s company for two days, they having told us they had not a mouthful of anything
to eat in the ship; and they told us afterwards, they thought we had been dead.
“ It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were sent to save our lives; and how
you found us, sir, you know as well as I, and better too."
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to death as, I confess,
I never met with, and was exceeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe it to
be a true account, because the youth gave me an account of a good part of it; thou h, I must
own, not so distinct and so feelingly as his maid; and the rather because, it seems, ’s mother
fed him at the price of her own life: but the poor maid, though her constitution being stronger I
than that of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakl woman too, she might struggle
harder with it; I say, the or maid might be su posed to fdel the extremity something sooner
than her mistress, who mig t be allowed to keep tlie last bits something longer than she parted
with any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here related, if our ship, or some
other, had not so providentially met them, a few days more would have ended all their lives
unless they had prevented it by eating one another; and even that, as their case stood, would
have served them but a little while, they being 500 leagues from any land, or any possibility of
relief, other than in the miraculous manner it happened. But this is by the way; I return to
my disposition of things amon the people.
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
anything of the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of setting up among them; for I
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
had I set up the sloop, and left it amon them, they would, upon very light dis ust, have
separated, and gone away from one anot er; or perhaps have turned pirates, an so made
the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, so as I
intended it; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two
quarter-deck guns that my nephew took extraordinarily, for the same reason. I thought it
was enough to qualify them for a defensive war, against any that should invade them; but
not to set them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack others
which, in the end, would only bring ruin and destruction upon themselves and all their
undertaking. I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way, as I
shall observe in its place.
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
days among them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to remove
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
tunity; and particularly I romised to send them some cattle; such as sheep, ogs, and cows;
for as to the two cows an calves which I brought from England, we had been obliged, by the
len th of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed them. .
The Lzfe and Adwutures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3
the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days: meeting nothing remark-
able in our passage but this. That about three days after we sailed, being becalmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a bay or gulf, on the
land-side, we were driven somethin out of our course; and once or twice our men cried
Land, to the eastward; but whether it was the continent, or islands, we could not tell by any
means.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as
it were, covered, towards the land, with something very black, not being able to discover what
it was; till, after some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way, and

looking at them with a perspective, cried out, it was an army. I could not imagine what he
meant by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word.
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and they are coming towards us
too, apace."
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew the captain; for he had heard
such terrible stories of them in the island, and having never been in those seas before, that
he could not tell what to think of it, but said two or three times, “ We shall all be devoured.”
I must confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore,
I liked it the worse; however, I bade him not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon
as we came so near to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us; so I gave order to come
to an anchor, and furl all our sails. As for the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture :
this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready, with skeets and buckets, to put out any
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with us, but never was
such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their
number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we could make of them when they came up,
being about a hundred and six-and-twenty, and a great many of them too: for some of them
had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven.
When the came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonishment, as at
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
understood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up, however, very near to us, and
seemed to go about to row round us: but we called to our men in the boats, not to let them
come too near them.
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
or six of their large canoes came so near our long-boat that our men beckoned with their
hands to them to keep them back, which they understood very well and went back ; but at their
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
boat was very much wounded.
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
into the boat, and the ca enter presently set up a kind of a fence, like waste boards, to cover
them from the arrows of t e savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern of us, and pretty near us,
 so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we could not tell their design.
And I easily found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to enga e with: and in a little time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they
came directly roadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near
that they could hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should
shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns ready ; but being so near as to be within hearing,
I made Friday o out upon the deck, and call out loud to them in his language, to know what
they meant; w ich accordingly he did: whether they understood him or not, I knew not ; but,
as soon as he had called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost, or nighest boats
to us, turns their canoes from us; and, stooping down, showed us their naked backsides; just
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
or challenge, we know not; or whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest;
but immediately Friday cried out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily for him (poor
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.
no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows,
and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky marksmen they were.
I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the companion of all my sorrows
2 I4. T/ze Lzfe and Adventures 0f Robinson Crusoe.

pith great; and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard in their lives before, to
e sure.
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
so we , that three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot
onl .
'lyhe ill-manners of turning u their bare backsides to us, gave us no great offence; neither
did I know for certain whether that, which would pass for the greatest contempt among us, might
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
but when they shot at us directly with al the fury they were capable of, and especially as their
had killed m poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so wel
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
if I could, to have overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many we wounded, at this broadside, but sure
such a fri ht and hurry never was seen among such a multitude. There were thirteen or
fourteen of their canoes split, and overset, in all, and the men all set a swimming; the rest,
frightened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save
those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that the were many of
them lost; and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an our after they
were all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great many; but,‘ in short, we
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
abouts, we could not see above three or four straggling canoes; nor did we ever see the rest
any iIIJIOTC, for a breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed and set sail for the
Braz' s.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he would neither eat nor
speak, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death. But I took a way to cure him,
for I made them take him and turn him into the lon -boat, and make him believe they would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak.
Nor would that do, but they really did throw him into the sea, and come away from him,
and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue
though they knew not one word of what he said. However, at last, they took him in again,
and then he began to be more tractable; nor did I ever design the should drown him.
We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconso ate creature alive, for want
of my man Friday, and would have been very glad to have gone back to the island, to have
taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion, but it could not be; so we .went on. We
had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a long while before we could make him under-
stand anything; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he began to be a little
tractable; afterwards we inquired what country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said, for his speech was so odd, all gutturals, and spoke in the throat in such a
hollow, odd manner, that we could never form a word after him; and we were all of opinion
that they might speak that language as well if they were gagged, as otherwise; nor could we
perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips or palate: but formed their
words just as a unting-horn forms a tune, with an open throat; he told us, however, some
time after, when we had taught him to speak a little English, that the were goin , with their
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
T ln Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rnsoe. 215
all joined to go against two nation. We asked him, what made them come up to us?
He said, “ To makee te great wonder look.” Where it is to be observed, that all those natives,
as also those‘ of Africa, when they learn English, they always add two e’s at the end of the
words where we use one, and place the accent upon them; as “ makeé,” “takee,” and the like;
land ire Sféild not break them of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at
ast e ' . '
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave of him. Poor,
honest Friday! We buried him with all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
him. And so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant
that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about twelve days’ time we made
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
all that part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days, when we made
the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor off of the Bay of All Saints,
the old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less business than I had; and yet it was with.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
trustees, not the fame of my wonderful reservation in the island, could obtain me that favour.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
monastery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the
monastery, and oblige the prior that then was, to go to the governor, and get leave for me
presently, with the captain, and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more;
and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we should not Oder to land any goods
out of the ship, or to carry any person away without licence.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
linen, w ich I had brought for a present to my partner.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
and though he knew not that I had the least design of givin him anything, he sent me on board
a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, wort about thirty moidores, including
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
Also, I delivered him about the value of 1001. sterling, in the same goods, for other uses; and I
obliged him to set up the sloop which I had brought with me from England, as I have
said for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to. my
plantation.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
framed; and I gave the master of her such instructions as he could not miss the place; nor did
he miss them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with
the small cargo I sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore with me there,
offered to go with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot
him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes, and tools for
his planting work, which he said he understood, having been an old planter in Maryland, and a
buccaneer into the bargain.
I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage
which we had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give
him his share of everything he wanted, with the rest.
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
fellow, a Brazil lanter of his acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the Church:
“I know not w at the matter is with him,” says he, “ but, on my conscience, I think he is a
heretic in his heart; and he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition ;”
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters; and if I would let them go to my island, and allot them a lantation, he would
216 The Lzfe and Adveniures of Robinson Crusoe.
and estate, and he had nothing left but a little household stuff, and two slaves ; and, adds he,
“though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for he will
assuredly be burnt alive if he does.”
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man,
and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea; and then
(having put all their goods on board the sloop some time before) we put them on board the sloop,
after he was got out of the bay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their stock, indeed, was much
alike rich in tools, in preparations, and a farm ; but nothing to begin with, but as above. How-
ever, they carried over with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials for planting
sugar canes, with some plants of canes; which he (I mean the Portugal man) understood very
well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent them, b their sloop,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
two mares and a stone-horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go: and
recommended it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have rocured more
women, but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, an there was but
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
All this cargo arrived safe, and as you may easily suppose, very welcome to my old inhabi-
tants, who were now (with this addition) between sixty and seventy people, besides little children;
of which there was a great many: I found letters at London from them all, by the way of
Lisbon, when I came back to England; of which I shall also take some notice immediately.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse about it; and whoever reads
the rest of my memorandnms would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect
to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by those of
other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost forty years’ misery and disappointments;
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
beyond imitation.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man at full liberty, and having com-
mitted no crime, has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among
the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England, and went
directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for
the plantation, and for my people ; took a patent from the government here, to have secured
my property, in subjection only to that of England; had I carried over cannon and ammuni-
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
it in the name of Eng and, and increased it with ople, as I might easily have done; had I
then settled myself there, and sent the ship back, aden with good rice, as I might also have
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
had I done this, and sta ed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of common sense;
but I was possessed wit a wanderin spirit, scorned all advantages, I pleased myself with
being the patron of those people I hag placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty
majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for them, as if I had been father of
the whole family, as well as of the plantation: but I never so much as pretended to plant in
the name of any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people
subjects to any one nation more than another; nay, I never so much as gave the place a name; '
but left it as I found it, belonging to nobody ; and the people under no discipline or government
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
authority or power to act or command one way or other, farther than voluntary consent moved
them to comply: yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but as I
rambled from them, and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of them, was by my
partner’s means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the place; and who sent me word,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 7
were come away; and that thou h they had not been much molested by the savages, yet they
had had some skirmishes with t em; and that they begged of him to write to me, to think of
the promise I had made to fetch them away, that they might see their own country again before
the died
lgut I was gone a wild goose chase indeed ; and they that will have any more of me, must be
content to follow me through a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures; wherein
the justice of Providence may be duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge~
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
severely with those very things which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be
allowed in.
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
choose any particular station of life for himself. Man is a short-sighted creature, sees but a
very little way before him; and as his passions are none of his best friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst councillors.
I say this with respect to the im etuous desire I had from a youth, to wander into the world‘;
and how evident it now was, that this principle was preserved in me for my punishment. How
it came on, the manner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give you
historically, and with its utmost variety of particulars. But the secret ends of Divine Power,
in thus permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own desires, is only to be under-
stood by those who can listen to the voice of Providence, and draw religious consequences from
God’s justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, I had business, or no business, away I went; it is no time now to enlarge any farther
upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to the history; I was embarked
for the voyage, and the voyage I went.
I should only add here, that my honest and truly pious clergyman left me here; a
ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither ; being still, as he observed,
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
wit ' .
But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints are best; had I gone with him, I had
never had so many things to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the second part of
the Travels and Adventures of Robin Crusoe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils we made directly away over the Atlantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne
Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable good voyage, our
course generally south-east; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my
disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore;
that it might appear, the land was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea, when Heaven,
who directs the circumstances of things, pleases to appoint it to be so.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board, who was to direct all her
motions after she arrived at the Cape; only being limited to certain numbers of days for stay,
by charter-party, at the several ports she was to go to : this was none of my businss, neither
did I meddle with it at all; m nephew, the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
We made no stay at the ape, longer than was needful to take in fresh water, but made the
best of our way for the coast of Ooromandel; we were, indeed, informed that a French man-
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
we were at war with France, I had some apprehensions of t em; but they went their own way,
and we heard no more of them.
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with descriptions of places, journals of our
voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade wind, situation of ports,
and the like; such as almost all the histories of Ion navigation are full of, and makes the
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
who are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we touched at; and what occurred to us
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
and bows, w ich they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile;
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
2 I 8 The L zfe and Aziz’izentz/rei of Fatinsa” Crusoe.
we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt for the
ship’s use,
We were obliged to stay here some time, after we had furnished ourselves with provisions;
and I, that was always too curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came, was
for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we went on
shore one evening; and the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came thronging about
us, and stood gazing at us at a distance; but as we had traded freely with them, and had been
kindly used, we thought ourselves in no danger: but when we saw the people, we cut three
boughs out of a tree, and stuck them at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a mark in the
country, not only of truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side set u three
poles, or boughs; which is a signal that they accept the truce too; but then this is a nown
condition of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they
come past your three poles or boughs towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within the
three poles ; and all t 9 space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a market, for free
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
poles, and come on unarmed; but if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby broken,
away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their wea ons, and then the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, t at a eater number of their people came
down than usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and t ey brought in several kinds of pro-
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
milk and roots, and several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and we made us
a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night.
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
and the boat riding at an anchor about a stone cast from the land, with two men in her to take
care of her, I made one of them come on shore; and getting some boughs of trees to cover us
also in the boat, I s read the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the
branches of trees, a night in the boat.
About two o’clock in the morning we heard one of our men make a terrible noise on the shore
calling out for God’s sake to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like “
'e
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
the guns they had, and that three times over; for it seems the natives here were not so easily
frightened with guns as the savages were in America, where I had to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter; but, rousing immediately from sleep with
the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusils we had on board, to
land and assist our men.
We got the boat soon to the shore; but our men were in too much haste; for, being come to
the shore, they plunged into the water, to et to the boat with all the expedition they could,
being pursued by between three and four iundred men. Our men were but nine in all, and
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
of small use to them.
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
wounded; and that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in the boat to take our
men in, we were in as much danger as they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in
upon us so thick, that we were fain to barricade the side of the boat u with the benches, and
two or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we ha , by mere accident, or
providence, in the boat.
And yet, had it been dayli ht, they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they could
have seen but the least part o% any of us, they would have been sure of us: we had, by the light
of the moon, a little sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore with darts and
771e Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinson Crusoe.- ' 219
cries of some of them, that we had wounded several; however, they stood thus in battle array
on the shore till break of day, which we suppose was, that they might see the better to take
their aim at us. '
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or set up our sail,
because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us, as we were to hit
a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, which though we
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to assist us; but we called to them not to come too
near, telling them what condition we were in. However, they stood in nearer to us, and one of
the men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keepin our boat between him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on boar us, and made the line fast to
the boat; upon which we slipped our little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us
out of the reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricade we had made.
As soon as we were got from between the ship' and the shore, that she could lay her side to
the shore, she run along just by them, and poured in a broadside among them, loaded with
pieces of iron and lead, small bullets and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a
ter'ible havoc amongst them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to examine into the occasion
of this fray : and indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put me upon it;
for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched us after we had made a truce,
if we had not done somethin to provoke them to it. At length it came out, viz. That an old
woman, who had come to seil us some milk, had brought it within our poles, with a young
woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs ; and while the old woman (whether she
was mother to the young woman or no, they could not tell), was selling us the milk, one of our
men offered some rudeness to the Wench that was with her; at which the old woman made a
great noise. However, the seaman would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old
woman’s sight, among the trees, it being almost dark ; the old woman went away without her;
and, as we suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from; who, upon notice, raised
this greadt army upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds but we had been all
destro e .
Oneyof our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him, ’ust at the beginning of the
attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had made; the rest came o free, all but the fellow who
was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mistress, for we could
not hear what became of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days after, though
the wind presented, and made signals for him; made our boat sail up shore, and down shore,
several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had suffered
for it, the loss had been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore once more, to try if I could
learn anything of him or them; it was the third night after the action, that I had a great mind
to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the
Indians’ side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again; but I ought
indeed to have been sure, that the men I went with had been under my command, before I
engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought into by it, without any
knowledge or desire.
We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the supercargo and myself;
and we landed two hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood drawn up
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
done them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our
man again, by way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies, whereof the boatswain
commanded one, and I the other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed;
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
220 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
fell over a dead body. This made them halt awhile; for knowing by the circumstances, that
they were at the place where the Indians had stood, they waited for my coming up here; we
concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour,
when we could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We told two-and-thirty
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had an arm, and some a leg,
shot off; and one his head. Those that were wounded, we supposed they had carried away.
“Then we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could come at the knowledge of,
I was resolved for going on board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word, that they
were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 22!
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 22!
there : that was the man’s name we had lost.
Had they sent to ask m leave to go, I knew well enough what answer to have given them:
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 22!
to run, who had a ship, and ship-loadin in our charge, and a voyage to make, which depended
very much upon the lives of the men; ut as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and
only asked me and my company to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up (for
I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men began to
importune me to go; and, when I refused positivel , began to grumble, and say they were not
under my command, and they would go. “ Come, Iack,” says one of the men, “ will you go
with me ? I will go for one.” Jack said he would; and another followed; and then another;
and, in a word, they all left me but one, who I persuaded to stay; so the supercargo and I, with
the third man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and take
care to take in as many of them as should be left; for I told them, it was a mad thing they
were goin about, and supposed most of them would run the fate of Thom. J effry.
They to d me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off again; and they would
take care, &c. So away they went. Ientreated them to consider the ship and the voyage;
that their lives were not their own; and that they were entrusted with the voya e, in some
measure: that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for want of their help , an that they
could not answer it to God or man. I said a great deal more to them on that head, but I might
as well have talked to the main-mast of the ship; they were mad upon their journey; only they
gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry; that they would be very cautious, and
they did not doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at farthest: for the Indian
town, they said, was not above half a mile off; though they found it above two miles before
they got to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the attempt was desperate, and such as none
but madmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily
as boldly. They were gallantly armed, that is true; for they had every man a fusee or musket,
a bayonet, every man a pistol; some of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers; and
the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes: besides all which, they had among them thirteen
hanld-grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided never went about any wicked work in the
wor d.
When they went out, their chief design was plunder; and they were in mighty hopes of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 22!
revenge, and made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian houses, which they
thought had been the town, which was not above half a mile off, they were under a great disap-
pointment; for there was not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where the town was, or how
big, they knew not; they consulted therefore what to do, and were some time before they could
resolve : for if they fell upon these, they must cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but
some of them might escape, it being in the ni ht, though the moon was up; and if one escaped,
he would run away, and raise all the town, so t ey should have a whole army upon them. Again,
on the other hand, if they went away, and left those untouched (for the people were all asleep)
they couldnot tell which way to look for the town.
However, the last was the best advice ; so they resolved to leave them, and look for the town
as well as they could. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a tree; this they
presently concluded would be a good guide to them; for they said the cow certainly belonged to
the town before them, or the town behind them; and if they untied her, they should see which
wa she went: if she went back, they had nothing to say to her; but if she went forward, they
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
and the cow went on before them. In a word, the cow led them directly to the town, which, as
they report, consisted of above 200 houses, or huts; and in some of these they found several
families living together.
Here they found all in silence; as profoundly secure, as sleep and a country that had never
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
what they hadto do; and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
and bind them : if any resisted, they need not be asked what to do then; and so to search the
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
see what dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon them; but while they
were animating one another to the work, three of them, that were a little before the rest, called
out aloud, and told them they had found Thom. J effry; they all run up to the place, and so it
was indeed, for there they found the poor fellow, hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat
cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of the
principal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of them
wounded with our shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking one to another in that
house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before, that they swore to one
another they would be revenged, and that not an Indian that came into their hands should
have any quarter; and to work they went immediately; and yet not so madly as by the rage
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
the poor frightened creatures began to rush out to save their lives; but met with their fate in
the attempt, and especially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himself
killing one or two with his pole-axe; the house being large, and many in it, he did not care to
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
but when it burst, made such havoc among them, that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house, were killed or hurt
with the grenado, except two or three more, who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and
two more kept, with the bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and despatehed all that came
that way. But there was another apartment in the house, where the prince, or king, or what-
ever he was, and several others, were ; and these they kept in, till the house, which was by this
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
of light combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street between them; and their
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
people out of those houses which were burnin , or frightened them out of others, our people were
ready at their doors to knock them on the ead, still calling and hallooing to one another to
remember Thom. Jeffrys. ,
While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and especially when I saw the
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
222 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robim‘on Crusoe.
not knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was in; especially hearing the guns too;
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
concerning me and the supercargo, what should become of us; and at last, though he could ill
spare any more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might be in, he takes another boat, and
with thirteen men and himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat, with no more than two men; and
though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know what
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
impossibility for an men in the world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened,
or the concern for t e safety of the men. In a word, the ca tain told me, he would go and hel
his men, let what would come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the safety of
the ship, the danger of the voyage, the interests of the owners and merchants, &c., and told
him I would go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at a distance, learn what was like
to be the event, and come back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before; he would go, he
said, and he only wished he had left but ten men in ship; for he could not think of having his
men lost for want of help; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and all. And
away went he.
In a word, I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to ersuade them not to go;
so, in short, the captain ordered two men to row back the pinuace, and) fetch twelve men more,
leaving the long-boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six men should keep the
two boats, and six more come after us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
which brought this mischief on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the ground we trod on; and being
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
of the guns were surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now of quite another
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
taking of a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and
killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdebourg,
and cutting the throats of 22,000 of all sexes; but I never had an idea of the thing itself
before; nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it.
However, we went on, and at length came to the town, though there was no entering the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
the ashes of it, for the house was consumed; and just before it, plain now to be seen by the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
and of a fury somethin beyond what was human, that we thought it impossible our men could
be guilty of it; or if they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
a little way farther; and beheld, to our astonishment, three women naked, and crying in a most
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
teen men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, with three of our English butchers (for
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
them, and one that was killed by their shot, fell down in our sight; when the rest saw us,
believing us to be their enemies, and that we would murder them, as well as those that pursued
them, they set up1 a most dreadful shriek, especially the women; and two of them fell down as if
already dead wit the fright.
My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins when I saw this; and I
believe, had the three English sailors that ursuedthem come on, I had made our men kill them
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabinmn Crusoe. 223
them; and immediately they came up to us, kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made
piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know we would: whereupon they
crept altogether in a huddle, close behind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up
together, and charged them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our people, and
see what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to do; and, in a word, to com-
mand them off ; assuring them, that if they stayed till daylight, they would have a hundred
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
only two of our men with me; and there was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
she could get out again; and two or three of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs,
from our men pursuing; and another was shot through the bod , and died while I was there.
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was, ut I could not understand one
word they said, though by signs I perceived that some of them knew not what was the occasion
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
stay there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
accordingly, as soon as I came back to my men, I told them my resolution, and commanded
them to follow me, when in the very moment came four of our men, with the boatswain at
their head, roving over the heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust,
as if they wanted more people to massacre; when our men hallooed to them as loud as they
could halloo: and, with much ado, one of them made them hear; so that they knew who we
were, and came up to us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a shout of triumph, for having, as
he thought, more help come; and without bearing to hear me, “ Captain,” says he, “noble
captain, I am glad you are come; we have not half done yet. Villanous hell-hound dogs!
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We have sworn to spare
none of them; we will root out the very nation of them from the earth :” and thus he ran on,
out of breath too with action, and would not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little. “Barbarous dog!” said I,
“what are you doing? I will not have one creature touched more, upon pain of death. I
charge you, upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man
this minute.”
“ Wh , sir,” says he, “ do you know what you do, or what they have done ? If you want a
reason or what we have done, come hither;” and with that he showed me the poor fellow
hanging upon a tree with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should have been forward enough;
but I thought they had carried their rage too far, and thought of Jacob’s words to his sons,
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
But I had now a new task upon my hands: for when the men I carried with me saw the
sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
other; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was
only concerned for fear of the men being overpowered; for, as to the people, he thought not
one of them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor
man, and that they ought to be used like murderers: upon these words, away ran eight of my
men with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it quite out
of my power to restrain them, came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the sight,
much less the horrible noise and cries of t e poor wretches that fell into their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men, and with these I walked
back to the boats. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back as it
were alone; for as it began now to be almost da , and the alarm had run over the country,
there stood about forty men, armed with lances an bows, at the little place where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; but b accident I missed the place, and came
directly to the sea-side; and by the time I got to t e sea-side, it was broad day: immediately
II took the pinnace, and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what might
a pen.
‘224 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the noise abated: but in about half an hour after I got on board, I heard a volley of our
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
falling upon the men, who, as I said, stood at the few houses on the way; of whom they
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
or children.
By that time the men get to the shore again with the pinnace, our men began to appear;
they came dropping in, some and some; not in two bodies, and in form, as they went, but all
in heaps, straggling here and there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute men might
have cut them all off.
But the dread of them was upon the whole country. And the men were amazed and sur-
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
they were met by one arty; if back again, by another; so that they were everywhere knocked
down. Nor did any of) our men receive the least hurt, except one that strained his foot, and
another had one of his hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, with all the men, in m mind,
but with him in particular; as well for his acting so out of his duty, as commander of the ship,
and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cooling, the
rage of his men in so bloody and crue an enterprise. My nephew answered me very respect-
fully; but told me that when he saw the body of the poor seaman, who they had murdered in
such a cruel and barbarous manner, he was not master of himself, neither could he govern
his passion ; he owned“ should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship; but as
he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the men, they
were not subject to me at all; and they knew it well enough, so they took no notice of my
dislike.
The next da we set sail; so we never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the account
of the number they killed; some said one thing, some another. But, according to the best of
their accounts put altogether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 people, men, women, and
children; and left not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow, Tho. Jeffrys, as he was quite dead, for his throat was so cut that
his head was half off, it would do him no service to bring him away; so they left him where
the found him, only took him down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
owever just our men thought this action, I was against them in it; and I alwa s, after
that time, told them God would blast the vo age; for I looked upon all the blood t ey shed
that night to be murder in them; for though it is true that they had killed Tho. Jeffrys,
yet it was as true that Jeffrys was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had violated or
debauched a young woman of theirs who came down to them innocently, and on the faith of
their public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board. He said, it is true
that we seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that the war was begun the night
before by the natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men without any
T 1n: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoo. 22 5
capacity to do ourselves 'ustice upon them in an extraor inary manner; that t ough the poor
man had taken a little li erty with a wench, he ought not to have been murdered, and that
in such a villainous manner; and that they did nothing but what was just, and what the laws
of God allowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to have warned us against going on shore
among heathens and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind wise, but at their own
Zzpense; and their experience seems to be always of most use to them, when it is dearest
u ht.
Vge were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the coast of Coromandel, only
to touch at Surat; but the chief of the supercargo’s design lay at the bay of Bengal, where
 P
if he missed of his business outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to the coast
as he came home.
226 771e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed,
or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat’s crew were not able to rescue them, and had
but just time to get off their boat. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution of heaven
in this case; but the boatswain very warmly told me, he thought I went farther in my censures
than I could show any warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the 13 St. Luke, vers. 4th,
where our Saviour intimates, that those men on whom the Tower of Siloam fell were not
sinners above all the Galileans ; but that which, indeed, put me to silence in the case, was, that
226 771e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our men could not bear the word
massacre with any patience): and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said, put me to
silence for the present.
But m frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse consequences than I expected;
and the oatswain, who had been the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time,
and told me, he found that I continually brought that affair u on the stage; that I made
226 771e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
particular; that as I was but a passenger, and had no command in the ship, or concern in the
voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I might have some ill
design in my head, and, perhaps,to call them to an account for it, when they came to England;
and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern
myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the ship; for he did not
think it was safe to sail with me among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him, that I did confess that I
had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that
I had on all occasions spoken my mind freely about it, though not more upon him than any of
the rest ; that as to my having no command in the ship, that was true, nor did 1 exercise any
authority, only took my liberty of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned us all;
and what concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his business; that I was a considerable
owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, even farther than I had
yet done, and would not be accountable to him, or any one else; and began to be a little warm
with him: he made but little reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time inthe road to Bengal; and, being willing to see the place, I went on
shore with the supercargo, in the ship’s boat, to divert myself; and towards evening was
preparing to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on board any
more. Any one may _uess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and I asked the
man who bade him de 'ver that errand to me ? He told me the cockswain. I said no more to
the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I had given
him no answer to it. I
Iimmediately went, and found out the supercargo, and told him the story, adding, what
I presently foresaw, viz. that there would certainly be a mutiny in the ship; and entreated
him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I had spoken to him on shore, the matter
was effected on board; the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all the
226 771e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making a long arangue (for the fellow
talked very well), and repeating all he had said to me, told the captain in few words, that as
I was now gone peaceably .on shore, they were 1oth to use any violence with me; which, if I
had not gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They
226 771e Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
command, they would perform it well and fait fully: but if I would not quit the ship, or the
captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with lnm: and
at that word ALL, he turned his face about towards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the
signal agreed on between them; at which all the seamen being got together there, cried out,
“ One and ALL, One and ALL 1 ”
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of eat presence of mind, and though he
was surprised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet he tolgrthem calmly he would consider of the
thing, but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He used some
arguments with them, to show them the'unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it
was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his face, that they would go all on
shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and did not know how I
might take it; so he began to talk cavalierly to them; told them that I was a very considerable
owner of the ship, and that in justice he could not ut me out of my own house; that this was
next door to serviu me as the famous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in a ship,
set the ca tain on s ore in an uninhabited island, and run away with the ship; that, let them
go into w t ship they would, if ever they came to England again, it would cost them dear;
that the ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose
the ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleased.
However, he would go on shore and talk with me on shore, and invited the boatswain to go
with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with me.
But they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have nothing to do with me any more,
neither on board nor on shore, and if I came on board they would all go on shore. “ Well,”
said the captain, “if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him,” so away
he came to me with this account, a little after the message had been brought to me from the
cockswain.
I was very led to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was not without apprehensions
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 227
been st'ipped naked, in a remote country, and nothing to help myself ; in short, I had been in
a worse case than when I was all alone in the island.
But they had not come that length, it seems, to my great satisfaction; and when my nephew
told me what they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and shook hands, that they would
one and all leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should not be con-
cerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I only desired he would take care and send me
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 227
way to Englan as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but there was no way to help it but to
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 227
uncle had yielded to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board the ship. So
the matter was over in a very few hours; the men returned to their duty, and I began to
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest art of the world, as I think I may call it; for I was near
three thousand leagues, by sea, fart‘her off from England than I was at my island; only, it is
true, I might travel here by land, over the Great Mogul’s country to Surat, might go from
thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia, and from thence might take the way of
the caravans, over the desert of Arabia to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence by sea again
to Italy, and so over land into France; and this, put together, might be, at least, a full diameter
of the globe; but, if it were to be measured, I suppose it would appear to be a great deal more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English ships, which were coming
to Bengal from Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get a passage on board them for
England; but as I came hither without any concern with the English East India Company,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusae. 227
captains of the ships, or of the company’s factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries, to see the ship set sail without
me; a treatment, I think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever met with, except from
pirates running away with the ship, and settiéig those that would not agree with their villany
r
on shore: indeed. this was the next door to it both ways. However, my nephew left me two
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
engaged to go with me, and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good lodging in
the house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or
rather Jews, and one Englishman. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and, that I
might not be said to run rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine months, considering
what course to take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with me of
value, and a considerable sum of mone , m nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of
eighllls, rind a letter of credit for more, if ha occasion, that I might not be straitened whatever
mlg t a pen.
I quick y disposed of my goods, and to advantage too; and, as I originally intended, I bought
here some very good diamonds, which, of all other things, was the most proper for me in my
present circumstances, because I might always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for m return to England, but none falling
out to my mind, the English merchant who lodged wit me, and who I had contracted an
intimate acquaintance with, came to me one morning : “ countryman," says he, “ I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know,
suit with yours also, when you shall have thorou hly considered it.
“ Here we are posted,” says he, “ you by acci cut and I by my own choice, in a part of the
world very remote from our own country; but it is in a country where, b us who understand
trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got : if you will put a t ousand pound to my
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
captain, I will be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China: for what should we
stand still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures of
God, heavenly bodies and earthl , are busy and diligent: why should we be idle? There are no
drones in the world but men: w y should we be of that number?”
I liked his proposal very well; and the more, because it seemed to be ex ressed with so much
good-will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not say but that I mig t, by my loose and
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
else; whereas, otherwise, trade was none of my element: however, I might perhaps say with
some truth that, if trade was not my element, rambling was, and no proposal for seeing any
part of the world which I had never seen before could possibly come amiss to me.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our minds; and when we got a vessel,
it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
vo age, and manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After some time we got a mate,
a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch ca enter, and three Portuguese, foremast men;
with these we found we could do well enoughfii
make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the history of their voyages and travels this
way, that it would be very little diversion to any body, to give a long account of the laces we
went to, and the people who inhabit there; those things I leave to others, and refer t e reader
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
promised every day. It is enough to me to tell you that I made this voyage to Achin, in the
island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium,
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
which, at that time, was ve much wanted there; in a word, we went up to Susham; made a
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
228 T he Lzfe and Adventur es of Robinson Crusoe.
the company send into India, and the merchants which generally stay there, get ‘such very
great estates a they do, and sometimes come home worth 60 to 70 and 100 thousand pounds at
a time. 
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much further into it, when we consider the
innumerable ports and places where they have a free commerce, that it will then be no wonder;
and much less will it be so when we consider that at all those places and ports where the English
aving Indian seamen, such as they are, to
ships come, there is so much, and such constant demand for the growth of all other countries,
that there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad for the goods carried out,
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
and such an insight into the method of getting more, that, had I been twen years younger,
I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for m ing my fortune;
but what was all this to a man on the wrong side of threcscore, that was rich enough, and
came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a covetous desire
of getting it ? And, indeed, I think it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire,
for it was so. When I was at home, I was restless to go abroad; and now I was abroad, I was
restless to be at home. I say, what was this gain to me? I was rich enough, nor had Lany
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
things of no great force for the prompting me forward to farther undertakings; and I thou ht,
that by this voyage I had made no progress at all; because I was come back, as I might ca it,
to the place from whence I came, as to a home; whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
was come into a part of the world which I was never in before; and that part in particular,
which I had heard much of; and was resolved to see as much of as I could; and then I
thought, I might say, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions. I do not name this to insist upon my
own, for I acknowledge his were the most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchant’s
life; who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best
thing for him, which he is like to get the most money by. My new friend kept himself to the
nature of the thing, and would have been content to have one, like a carrier’s horse, always
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
in it; on the other hand, mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a
thing twice over.
But this was not all. I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and yet the
most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In the interval of these consultations,
my friend, who was always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage to me, among
the Spice Islands; and to bring home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards;
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the whole power, as they
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
had more pleasure in it, and more satisfaction to the mind, than sitting still; which, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on his voyage too, which we made very
successfully, touching at Borneo, and several islands, whose names I do not remember, and
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
T/ze Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 229
of one, we really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me. “ Well, now,” said he, with a sort
of agreeable insulting my indolent temper, “ is not this better than walking about here like a
man of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the
Pagans ?” “ Why, truly," says I, “ my f'iend, I think it is ; and I begin to be a convert to the
princi les of merchandising. But I must tell you,” said I, “by the way, you do not know
what I am a doing; for if once I conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old as I
am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly,
I shall never let you lie still.” _
But to be short with my speculations. A little while after this, there came in a Dutch ship
from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about two hundred ton
burden; the men, as the pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with, e lay by at Bengal; and having, it seems, got mone enough, or
being willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice that e would sell
his ship. This came-tomy ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great mind to
buy it. So I goes home to him, and told him of it; he considered awhile, for he was no rash
man neither, but musing some time, he re lied, “ She is a little too big; but, however, we will
have her.” Accordingly we bought the s ’p; and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and took possession. When we had done so we resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to
join them with those we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they having
received not their wages, but their share of the money, not one of them .was to be found. We
inquired much about them, and at length were told that they were all gone together, by land,
to Agra, the great city of the Mogul’s residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat,
and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I missed the o portunity of going
with them, for such a ramble, I thought, and in such company as would bot have guarded me,
and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and I should both have seen
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
came to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was, that this man
they called captain was the gunner only, not the commander; that they had been a trading
voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some of the Malaccans, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the ca tain was killed, ‘these men, eleven in
number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which t ey did; and had brought her in at the
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would, we came honestly by her, as we thought:
though we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired
anything of the seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly have faltered in their
account, contradicted one another, and perhaps have contradicted themselves; or, one how or
other, we should have seen reason to have suspected them: but the man showed us a bill of sale
for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name (for I so. pose it was all a for-
gery), and called himself by that name; and we could not contradict im; and being withal
is). little too unwary, or at least, having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our
argam.
We picked up some more English seamen here after this, and some Dutch; and now we
resolved for a second voyage to the south-east, for cloves, &c., that is to say, among the Philip-
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
from port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success; and was now the last
year with my new partner, going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China; but
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
_In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a great while in the
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port; and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
made the English‘ mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
sship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to
1am.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there comes to me one day an
Englishman, and he was, it seems, a gunner’s mate on board an English East India ship, which
rode in the same river, up at or near the city of Cambodia. What brought him hither we knew
not; but he comes up to me, and, speaking English, “ Sir,” says he, “you are a stranger to me,
and I to you; but 1 have something to tell you, that very nearly concerns you.”
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
“If it ver nearly concerns me,” said I, “and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me?" “I
am move ,” says he,“ by the imminent danger you are in; and, for aught I see, you have no
knowledge of it.” “I- know no danger I am in,” said I, “but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot
_230 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. Do you know, sir,’ said he, “ the
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
me P” “ \Vhy, sir,” says he, “ is it for a man that is u n such adventures as you are, to come
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
them? I sup ose you do not think on are a match for them ? " I was amused very much at
his discourse, but not amazed at it; or I could not conceive what he meant; and I turned short
upon him, and said, “ Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I
have to be afraid of any Company’s ships, or Dutch ships; I am no interloper; what can they
have to say to me? ” -
He looked like a man half angry, halt pleased; and pausing awhile, but smiling, “ Well, sir,”
says he, “if you think yourselves secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry’your fate
should blind you against good advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately,
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
taken, on will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thought,
sir,” added he, “I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing you a piece
of service of such importance.” “ I can never be ungrateful,” said I, “for any service, or to any
man that offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension,” said I, “ what they should
have such’a design upon me for. However, since you say there is no time to be lost, and that
there is some villanous design in hand against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to
seaimmediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim without stopping it. But,
sir,” said I, “ shall I go away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give me no farther
light into it ?"
“I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he; “but I have a Dutch seamen here with me,
and, I believe, I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it. But
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
That you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the Malac-
cans, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum of the story, and you will
all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you know
merchants’ ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their power.” '
“ Now you speak plain English,” said I, “and I thank you; and thou h I know nothing
that we have done, like what you talk of, but am sure we came honestly an fairl by the ship;
yet seeing such work is a doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly, will be upon
my guard.” “Nay, sir,” says he, “do not talk of being upon your guard; the best defence is to
be out of the danger: if you have any regard to your life, and the life of all your ‘men, put out
to sea without fail at high-water; and as you have a whole tide before you, you will be one
too far out before they can come down; for they came away at high-water; and as they ave
twenty miles to come, you get near two hours of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning
the length of the way : besides, as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not venture to
follow you out far to sea, especially if it blows.”
“Well,” says I, “you have been very kind in this: what shall I do for you to make you
amends ? “ Sir,” says he, “you may not be so willing to make me any amends, because you may
not be convinced of the truth of it: I will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months’ pay
due to me on board the ship , which I came out of England in; and the Dutchman,
that is with me, has .seven months’ pay due to him; if you will make good our pay to us, we
T/ze Lzfe and Adr/enturcs of Robinson Crusoe. 231
convince you, that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her,
we will leave the rest to you.” ‘
I consented to thi readily; and went immediately on board, and the two men with me.
As soon as I came o the ship’s side, my partner, who was on board, came on the quarter-
deck, and called to me with a great deal of joy, “ 0 ho! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak! we
have stopped the leak!” “Say you so," said I, “thank God; but weigh the anchor then

3‘ "I‘
immediately; ” “Weigh! ” says he, “ what do you mean by that? ” “What is the matter ? "
says he. “ Ask no questions,” says I, "but all hands to work, and weigh without losing a
minute.” He was surprised: But, however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered
the anchor to be got up; and though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land-breeze
blowing, we stood out to sea; then I called him into the cabin, and told him the story at large;
and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as it took us up a greal deal of
time, so before we had done, a seaman comes to the cabin-door, and calls out to us, that the
captain bade him tell us, we were chased. “ Chased,” said I, “ by who, and by what?" “ By
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
apparent there is something in it.” In the next place, I ordered all our men to be called up:
an told them that there was a design to seize the ship, and to take us for irates; and asked
them, if they would stand by us, and by one another ? The men answered, c eerfully, that one
and all, they would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way he thought best
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
last drop. He said, readily, that the way was to keep them off with our great shot as long as
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
neither of these would do any longer, we should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they
had not materials to break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, order to bring two guns to bear fore and aft, out of the
steera e, to clear the deck, and loaded them with musket-bullets, and small ieces of old iron,
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
following us, with all the sail they could make.
Two of those boats, which, by our glasses, we could see were English, out-sailed the rest,
were near two leagues a-head of them, and gained upon us considerably; so that we found
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
the came on till they were near enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet, which we had
on oard; so we called to them, and bade them keep off at their peril.
It was all one, they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come under our stern, so to board
us on our quarter. Upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broad-
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
to ca away the stern of the hin ermost boat, and bring. them to the necessity of taking
down t eir sail, and running all to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay
by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
While this was doin , one of the three boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other
two, made up to the oat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could afterwards see
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
again, and to know what was her business with us; but had no answer : only she crowdedllclose
under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run out his two chase
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
time ; one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and we
could easily see had done a great deal of mischief among them; but we, taking no notice of
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
guns more, we found the boat was split almost to pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece
of her stern, was shot quite away; so they handed their sail immediately, and were in great
232 T/ze Lzfe and A dz’entures of Robinson Crusoe.
he hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men already
in the water. Upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close by
our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, and save them from drowning,
and immediately to come on board with them; because we saw the rest of the boats began to
come up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men; one of which
was just drowning, and it was a good while before we could recover him. As soon as they were
on board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea; and we found
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
Being thus delivered from a danger, which though I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed
to be much greater than I apprehended, I took care that we should change our course, and not
let any one imagine whither we were goin ; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of
the course of all European ships, whether t ey were bound to China, or anywhere else, within
the commerce of the European nations.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
the meaning of all this should be? And the Dutchman let us into the secret of it at once;
telling us, that the fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had
run away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too he told us, though I do
not remember, was treacherously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three
of his men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods, where they wandered
about a great while; till at length he, in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape,
and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore, in its way from China, had sent
their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst not come to that part of the shore where the
boat was, but shift in the night to take the water farther off, and the ship’s boat took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen belonging to the ship
arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an account, that the fellow who
had run away with the ship, sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a cruising
in her; and that they had already taken an English ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly
mien. \
This latter part we found to concern us directly; and though we knew it to be false, yet, as
my partner said very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and they had had such a prepos-
session against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope
for any good quarter at their hands; and especially considering that our accusers had been
our judges, and that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage would have
dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed; and therefore it was his opinion, we should
go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came, without putting in at any port whatever;
because there we could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were when the
ship put in, who we bought her of, and the like; and, which was more than all the rest, if we
were put to the necessity of bringing it before the proper 'udges, we should be sure to have
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
I was some time of my partner’s o inion; but after a little more serious thinking, I told him,
I thought it was a very great hazar for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were
on the wrong side of the straits of Malacca; and that if the a arm was given, we should be
sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia as the English elsewhere;
that if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and
there would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor’s opinion,
who said he was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the ship’s com any; and we immediately
resolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast o? China; and pursuing the
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
of the vessels of the country, such as we could get. This was approved of as the best method
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
the usual course to the eastwar .
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Radium/z Crusoe. 233
distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we
call it, from the east and E.N.E. so that we were a long while upon our voyage; and we were
but ill provided with victuals for so long a voyage; and, which was still worse, there was some
danger, that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued ns, whereof some were bound
that way, might be got in before us; and if not, some other ship, bound to China, might have
information of us from them, and pursue us with the same vigour.
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including the late escape from
the long-boats, to have been in the most dan erous condition that ever I was in through all
my past life; for, whatever ill circumstances I ad been in, I was never pursued for a thief
before; nor had I ever done anything that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
enemy but my own. But now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable; for though
I was perfectly innocent, I'was in no condition to make that innocence appear. And if 1 had
been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so
among the people I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it, I knew not: or
what port or lace we should go to. My partner, seeing me thus dejected, though he was the
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
coast, told me, he would put in on the coast of Cochin-china, or the bay of 'l‘onquin; intending
to go afterwards to Macao, a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and where still
a ‘great many European families resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually went
thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a tedious and irregular course, I
and very much straitened for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to see if we could, either over land or by the ship’s pinnace, come to know
what ships were in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for
though we did not immediately see any European ships in the bay of 'l‘onquin, yet, the next
morning, there came into the bay two Dutch ships, and a third without any colours spread out,
but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues distance, steering
for the coast of China: and in the afternoon went by two English ships, steering the same
course; and thus, we thought, we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both one way and the other.
The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by occupation or pro-
fession; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and except getting a few
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
we kept ourselves from being insulted by them in several ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward;
and by our boat we coasted north-east to the point of land which opens the great bay of
Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as above, that, in a
word, we were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among were the most barbarous
of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants, viz., that among other customs
they have this as one, that if any vessel have the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast,
they presently make their men all prisoners or slaves ; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion following.
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
and however it happened, that as I have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute
of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships, in the ha of Siam ; yet, as we did
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
place, to la her on shore, take out what heavy things we had on board, which were not many,
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns, and other moveable things,
to one side, we tried to 1bring her down, that we might come at her bottom; but, on second
234 The Lzfe and Aa'wnmres of Roinso/z Crusoe.
for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight, came wondering down to
the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and
heeling towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom, with
stages, and with their boats on the off side, they presently concluded that the ship was cast
away, and lay so fast on the ground.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or three hours’ time, with ten or twelve
large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the hip; and if they found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves to their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew nothin who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they discovered us all hard at
work on the outside of the ship‘s bottom and side, washing and graving, and stopping, as every
seafaring man knows how. _
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, could not imagine
what their design was ; but being willing to be sure, we took this op ortunity to get some of us
into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at work to
defend themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no more than need; for, in less
than a quarter of an hour’s consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the shi was really a wreck;
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives by t e help of our boats;
and when we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by that motion, that we were
endeavouring to save some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted we all belonged
to them ; and away they came down upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened; for we lay but in an ill osture
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
who worked u on the stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into the ship; and bade
those in the oat to row round and come on board; and those few of us who were on board,
worked with all the strength and hands we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however,
neither the men upon the stage nor those in the boats, could do as they were ordered, before
the Cochinchinese were upon them; and with two of their boats boarded our long-boat, and
began to lay hold of the men as their prisoners.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
thought. But he understood his business better than I could teach him; for he grappled the
pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their own boat into ours; where, taking him by
the two ears, he beat his head so against the boat’s gunuel, that the fellow died instantly in
his hands ; and, in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket, and with
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
enter the boat; but this was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless,
because ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
deserved our laughter rather than anything else; and that was this—-
Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he had caulked her,to stop the leaks, and got two kettles just let down into the boat;
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
shi Wrights use for that work; and the man that tended the car enter had a great iron ladle
in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were at work with that hot stuff; two of the
enem ’s men entered the boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he imme-
diate y saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 3 5
the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, “Well done, Jack, give them some more of it; ".
and stepping forward himself, takes one of their mops, and dipping it in the itch-pot, he and
his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in t ree boats, there
was not one that was not scalded and burnt with it in a most frightful itiful manner, and made
such a howling and 0 ’ng that I never heard a worse noise, and in eed, nothing like it; for
it is worth observing, t at though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet every nation
has a particular way of exclamation, and make noises as different from one another as their
speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures made, a better name than howling, nor a
name more roperto the tone of it; for I never heard anything more like the noise of the
wolves, whic , as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never pleased with a victory better in my life; not only as it was a perfect surprise to
me, and that our danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory without any blood-
shed, except of that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches, even though it was in my own
defence, knowing they came on errands which they thought just, and knew no better; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness in
nature; yet I thought it was a sad life, which we must be always obliged to be killing our
fellow-creatures to preserve; and indeed, I think so still; and I would, even now, suffer a great
deal rather than I would take away the life even of that person injuring me. And I believe
all considering people, who know the value of life, would be of my opinion, at least they would,
if they entered seriously into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story; all the while this was doing, my partner and I, who managed the
rest of the men on board, had, with great dexterity, brought the ship almost to rights; and
having gotten the guns into their places again, the gunner called to me, to bid our boat get out
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
them, that were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, as we supposed,
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
with about sixteen good big hogs on board, two days before, we resolved to stay here no
longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we should be
suiérounded the next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose
of or us.
We therefore got all our things on board the same evening, and the next morning were ready
to sail. In the meantime, lying at an anchor at some distance, we were not so much concerned,
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
of all her leaks, we set sail: we would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to
inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning the Dutch ships that had been there:
but we durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a
little before; so we kept on N.E., towards the isle of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediter-
ranean is of an Algerine man-of-war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept out N.E. as if we would go to the Manillas or the
Philippine islands, and this we did that we might not fall into the way of any of our European
ships; and then we steered N., till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees, 30 min. by which
means we made the island Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water
and fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements
236 T/ze Lzfe and A dveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and
is a testimony of what I have often observed, viz., That the Christian religion always civilizes
the people, and reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving effects upon
them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an equal distance, till we knew
we were beyond all the ports of China, where our European ships usually come ; being resolved,
1f possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country, where, as our circum-
stances were, we could not fail of being entirely ruined; nay, so great was my fear in particular,
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
the hands of the Spanish Inquisition.
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
we should come at; and standing in for the s ore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an
old Portuguese pilot on board, who knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer his
service, which, indeed, we were ver glad o , and took him on board; upon which, without
asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent them back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry us whither we would,
that I began to talk with him about carrying us to the Gulf of Nanquin, which is the most
northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the Gulf of N anquin very well;
but smiling, asked us what we would do there?
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea,
wrought silks, &c., and so would return by the same course we came. He told us our best port
had been to have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market for our opium,
to our satisfaction, and might, for our money, have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap
as we could at Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very opiniated or conceited,
I told him we were gentlemen as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and see
the great city of Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China. “ Why, then,” says the
old man, " you should go to Ningpo, where, b the river which runs into the sen, there, you may
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
eagues.
“Well,” said I, "Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our business now: the great question
is, If you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Pekin after-
wards ? “ Yes,” he said, “ he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This gave me a little shock; and a Dutch ship was now our terror,
and we had much rather have met the devil, at least if he had not come in too frightful a
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
and of much greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern, when he named a Dutch
ship; and said to me, “ Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the Dutch, I suppose they are
not now at war with your nation.” “N o,” said I, “that’s true: but I know not what liberties
men may take, when they are out of the reach of the laws of their country.” “ Why,” said he,
“you,are no pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants,
sure.’
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
by some stop in the vessels appointed by nature to revent it; for it put me into the greatest
disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it possi le for me to conceal it so, but that the
old man easily perceived it.
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
Seignior," said I, “it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this time, whither to go
in particular; and I am something more so, for what you said about pirates: I hope there
are no pirates in these seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them; for you see
we have but a small force, and but very weakly manned.”
“0, Sir,” said he, “do not be concerned; I do not know that there has been any pirates in
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
a month since; but you may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a ship’ of
T [ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 37
by a reprobate crew that were on board, after the captain and some of his men had been mur-
dered by the Malaccans at or near the island of Sumatra.
“What !” said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, “did they murder the captain ?”
“No,” said he, “I do not understand that they murdered him; but as they afterwards run away
with the shi , it is generally believed they betrayed him into the hands of the Malaccans, who
did murder im; and, perhaps, they rocured them to do i .” “Why then,” said 1, “they
deserved death, as much as if they had one it themselves.” “Nay,” said the old man, “they do
deserve it; and the will certainly have it if they light upon any English or Dutch ship; for
they have all a ree together, that if they meet that rogue, they will give him no quarter.”
“But,” said to him, “you say the pirate is one out of these seas; how can they meet with
him then ?” “Why, that is true," said he, “ ey do sa ‘so; but he was, as I tell you, in the
bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia, and was discovered t ere by some Dutchmen, who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they run away with her; and some English and
Dutch traders bein in the river, they were within a little of taking him. Nay,” said he, “if
the foremost boats ad been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him; but he,
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
them before the others came up; and then standing off to sea, the others were not able to
follow him, and so he got away. But they have all so exact a description of the ship, that
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to either the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm.”
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
afterwards?” “0, Sir,” said the old pilot, “there is no need of making a formal business of it
with such rogues as those; let them tie them back to back, and set them a diving; it is no
more than they richly deserve.”
I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me no harm; so that I turned
short upon him: “ Well now, Seignior,” said I, “ and this is the very reason why I would have
you carry us up to Nanquin, and not to put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country;
where the English or Dutch ships come; for, be it known to you, Seignior, those captains of
the English and Dutch ships are a arcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither know
what belongs to justice, nor how to liehave themselves as the laws of God and nature direct;
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
murderers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry; and perhaps I may live to call some of them
to an account for it, where they may be taught how justice is to be executed; and that no
man ought to be treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and that he
is the man.”
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they attacked; and gave him a full account
of the skirmish we had with their boats, and how foolishly and coward-like they behaved. I
told him all the story of our buyin the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I told him
the reasons I had to believe that t is story of killing the master by the Malaccans was true;
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
that the men were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was so, before the ad
ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that they woul have
the blood of those men, who we killed there, in our just defence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation; and told us, we were very much in the right to
go away to the north; and that if he might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China,
which we might very well do, and buy or build another in the country: and, said he, “though
you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all your
goods back again to Bengal, or any where else.”
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
turn, or get any customer to buy this. He replied, I shou d meet with customers enough for
the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back again; and
that he would procure me people both to buy one, and sell the other.
“Well, but, Seignior,” says I, “as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental'to'bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible broil,
‘238 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the guilt n n the men, b proving this was the ship; and so innocent men may probably be
T /12 Life and Adveutures 0f Robinson Cmsoe. 2 39
also; for as I know all those commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
ass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know that they had
T /12 Life and Adveutures 0f Robinson Cmsoe. 2 39
away with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that in particular
T /12 Life and Adveutures 0f Robinson Cmsoe. 2 39
trade : and I am persuaded they will so far believe me, as, at least, to act more cautiously for
the time to come.’ “Well,” says I, “and will you deliver one message to them from me ?” “ Yes,
I will,” says he, “ if you will give it under your hand, in writing, that I may be able to prove
that it came from you, and not out of my own head.” I answered, that I would readily give
it him under my hand. So I took a pen and ink, and paper, and wrote at large the story of
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c., the pretended reason of it, and the unjust cruel design
of it; and concluded to the commanders, that they had done what they not only should have
been ashamed of, but also, that if ever they came to England, and I lived to see them there,
they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my country were not grown out of use before
I arrived there.
M old pilot read this over and over again, and asked me several times if I would stand to
it. I answered, I would stand to it as long as I had anything left in the world ; being sensible
T /12 Life and Adveutures 0f Robinson Cmsoe. 2 39
occasion ever to let the pilot carry this lbtter; for he never went back again. While those
things were passing between us, by way of discourse, we went forward directly for Nanquin,
and, in about thirteen da s’ sail, came to an anchor at the south-west point of the great gulf
of Nanquin ; where, by t e way, I came by accident to understand, that two Dutch ships were
gone that length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted
my partner again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would very
gladly have been safe on shore almost any where. However, I was not in such perplexity
neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was no creek, or harbour, which I might put into,
and pursue my business wit the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the enemy ? He
told me, if I would sail to the southward about two and forty leagues, there was a little port
called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in ; and if
I thought to put in there, I might consider what farther course to take when I was on shore.
He confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at some certain times
the had a kind of a fair there, when-the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the
Chinese merchandises. -
We all agreed to go back to this place: the name of the port, as he called it, I may, perhaps,
spell wrong; for I do not particularly remember it, havin lost this, together with the names
of many other places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water, on an
accident which I shall relate in its order; but this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with call it by a differing name from that which our Portuguese
pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above Quinchang. As we were unanimous in our resolutions
to go to this place, we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore, where we were to
get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the country were very civil to us, and
brought us abundance of things to sell to us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and
some fowls; but nothing without money.
T /12 Life and Adveutures 0f Robinson Cmsoe. 2 39
to our satisfaction; and I was joyful, and, I may say, thankful, w en I set my foot safe on
shore; resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and effects
any other way, thou h not every way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board
that unhappy vesse more: and indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of
life that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely miserable as that
of bein in constant fear. Well does the scripture say, ~“ the fear of man brings a snare ;” it is
a life o death; and the .mind is so entirely suppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief; the
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
tions, and is present to them in the greatest exigencies, fails t em here.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heightening every danger; repre-
senting the English and Dutch captains to be men uncapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest men and rogues ! or between a story calculated for our own turn, made
out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voyage, progress
and design; for we might many ways have convinced any reasonable creature that we were
not pirates; the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves,
and entering into such and such ports; even our very manner, the force we had, the number
of men, the few arms, little ammunition, and short provisions; all these would have served to
convince any man that we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods we had on board, would
make it appear the ship had been at Bengal; the Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the names
of all the men that was in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Portu-
guese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These, and many other articular
circumstances, might have made it evident to the understanding of any commandiar, whose
hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates.
But let that be how it will, those were our apprehensions; and both my partner and I too,
scarce slept a night without dreaming of halters and yard-arms; that is to say, gibbets; of
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
my dream, fancying the Dutchmen ad boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Another apprehension I had, was, of the cruel usage we might meet with from them, if we
fell into their hands: then the story of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Dutch
might, perhaps, torture us, as they did our countrymen there; and make some of our men, by
extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never were guilty of; own themselves, and all
of us, to be pirates ; and so they would put us to death, with a formal appearance of justice;
and that they might be tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
missionary Romish priests, who were in town, and who had been there some time, converting
the people to Christianity; but we thought they made but poor work of it; and made them
but sorry Christians when they had done. However, that was none of our business. One of
these was a Frenchman, who they called Father Simon; he was a jolly well-conditioned man,
very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did, one of
whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in
his manner, and very agreeable company; the other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and
austere, and applied seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with and insinuate them-
selves among the inhabitants, wherever they had opportunity: we often ate and drank with
those men : and though I must confess, the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Chris-
tianity, is so far from the true conversion required to bring heathen people to the faith of
Christ, that it seems to amount to little more than letting them know the name of Christ, and
say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they understand not,
and to cross themselves, and the like; yet it must he confessed, that these religious, who we
240 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
intruments of it; and, on this account, they under o not the fatigue of the voyage, and the
hazards of living in such )laces, but oftentimes deat itself, with the most violent tortures, for
the sake of this work: and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever opinion we have
of the work itself, and the manner of their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertook it with so many hazards, and who have no prospect of the least tem-
poral advantage to themselves. 
But, to return to my story: This French priest, father Simon, was appointed, it seems, by
order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor;
and waited only for another priest who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together, but he was inviting me to go that journey, telling
me, how he would show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire; and among the rest,
the greatest city in the world; a city, said he, that your London, and our Paris, put together,
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 24II
full of people; but as I looked on those things with different eyes from other men, so I shall
give my opinion of them in few words, when I come, in the course of my travels, to speak more
particularly of them.
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 24II
together, I showed some little inclination to go with him; and he pressed me and my partner
very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. Why, father Simon, says my
partner, why should you desire our company so much ? You know we are heretics, and you
do not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasure. “ O ! ” says he, “ you may,
perhaps, be good Catholics in time ; my business here is to convert heathens; and who knows
but I may convert you too?" “ Very well, father," said I, “ so you will preach to us all the
way.” “ I will not be troublesome to you,” says he ; “ our religion does not divest us of good
manners; besides,” sa s he, “we are here like countrymen; and so we are, compared to the
place we are in: and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may be all Christians at last;
at least,” said he, “ we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one
another.” I liked that part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my
priest that I had left in the Brazils; but this father Simon did not come up to his character
by a great deal; for though father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither,
yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict (piety, and sincere affection to religion, that
my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have sai so much.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting us to go with him, but we
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 24II
to dispose of ; and we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place
of ver little business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the
city o Nanquin: but Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern
itself in our affair; and I was encouraged from this very time to think I should one way or
other, get out of this tangled circumstance, and be brought home to my own country again;
though I had not the least view of the manner; and when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what method it was to be done. Providence, I say, began here to clear up
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 24II
a J a an merchant to us, who began to inquire what goods we had; and, in the rst lace, he
bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each.
While we were dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head that he might, perhaps,
deal with us for the shi too ; and I ordered the interpreter to pronose it to him. He shrunk
T he Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 24II
me, with one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and told me, e had a proposal to
make to me, and that was this ; He had bought a great quantity of goods of us when he had
no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the ship; but if 1 would let the same men who were in the ship
navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send them from thence to the
Philippine islands with another loading, which he would pay the freight of, before they went
from Japan; and that, at their return, he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his proposal;
and so eager did my head still run u on rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a
notion of going myself with him, and) so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South
Seas; and accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant, if he Wo 6. not hire us to the Philippine
islands, and discharge us there. He said, no, he could not do that; for then he could not have
the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, he said, at the ship’s return.
WVell, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going myself: but my partner, wiser than
myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese,
Q
\ a v _ \ , .‘ |"';''‘inlm
who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines;
more false, more cruel, and more treacherous than they. 
‘242 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his men, and know if t ey were willing to
go to Japan; and, while I was doing this, the young man, who, as I said, my nephew had
left with me as my companion for my travels, came to me and told me, that he thought that
voyage promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be
very glad if I undertook it; but that if I would not, ‘and would give him leave, he would go as
a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if ever he came to England, and I was there,
and alive, he would render me a faithful account of his success, and it should be as much mine
as I pleased.
I was really 1oth to part with him: but, considering the prospect of advantage, which was
really considerable, and that he was a oung fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
‘242 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the next day. My partner and I discoursed about it ; and my partner made a most generous
‘242 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
sea in it again; if your stewar ” (so he called m man) “will venture the voyage, I will leave
my share of the vessel to him, and let him make t e best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
‘242 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
freight to us, the other shall be his own.” ‘
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man, made him such an offer, I
could do no less than offer him the same ; and all the ship’s company being willing to go with
him, we made over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him, obliging him
to account for the other; and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at Japan, and got him licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him his freight very punctually,
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their
own, who trafficking with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a great
quantity of cloves, and other spice; and there he was not only paid his freight very well, and
at a very good rice, but being not willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him
with goods on his own account; that for some money and ome spices of his own, which he
brought with him, he went back to the Manillas, to the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo
very well. Here, having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a'free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and gave him a licence to land there, and travel to Mexico; and to pass in any
Spanish ship to Europe, with all his men.
He made the voya e to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold his ship; and having
there also obtained a owance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, somehow or
other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure ; and about eight years after came to England,
exceeding rich; of the which I shall take notice in its place; in the meantime, I return to our
particular affairs.
Being now to part with the ship, and ship’s company, it came before us, of course, to consider
what recompense we should give to the two men that ave us such timely notice of the design
against us in the river of Cambodia. The truth was, t ey had done us a considerable service,
and deserved well at our hands; though, by the way, the were a couple of rogues too; for,
as they believed the story of our being pirates, and that we ad really run away with the ship,
they came down to us, not only to betray the desi n that was formed a ainst us, but to go to
sea with us as pirates; and one of them confessed afterwards, that nothing else but the hopes
of going a roguing brought him to do it. However, the service they did us was not the less;
‘242 Tim Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
them which they said was due to them on board their respective ships‘; that is to sa , the ‘
Englishman nineteen months’ pay, and to the Dutchman seven; and over and above t at, I
gave them each of them a small sum of money in gold, and which contented them very well:
then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second mate and
purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain: so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and ver stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself banished, and remote from m own
count at Bengal, where I had many ways to get home for my money, what could I think of
mysel now, when I was gotten about a t ousand leagues farther oE from home, and perfectly
destitute of all manner of prospect of return ?
All we had for it was this : that in about four months’ time there was to be another fair at
the place where we were, and then we-might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
that would be to be sold, an would carry us and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked
very well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any
English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our goods,
and get passage to some other lace in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolve to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
city well worth seeing indeed: they say it has a mi lion of people in it; which, however, I do
not believe. It is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
But when I come to compare the miserable peo le of these countries with ours; their fabrics,
their manner of living, their government, their re igion, their wealth, and their glory (as some
call it), I must confess, I do not so much as think it is worth naming, or worth my while to
write of, or any that shall come after me to read.
It is very observable, that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies,
the government, the manufactures, the commerce, and the conduct of these people; not that
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that pre ls there,
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What
their trade to the universal commerce of England, Holland, France, and Spain? What are
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
variety? \Vhnt are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
power of their government, and strength of their armies, is surprising to us, because, as I have
said, considering them as a barbarous nation of pagans, little better than savages, we did not
expect such things among them ; and this, indeed, is the advantage with which all their
greatness and power is represented to us : otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; for, as I have
said of their ships, so may be said of their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
nothing but ruin the country, and starve themselves. If they were to besiege a strong town in
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
would overthrow all the horse of China; a million of their foot could not stand before one em-
battled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were to be not one
to twenty in number: na , I do not boast if I say, that 30,000 German or English foot, and
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
in China could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of an European army;
and at the same time, all the armies of China could never take such a town as Dunkirk, ro~
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in going off ; they have powder, but it is of no strength;
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
retreat: and therefore fmust confess it seemed strange to me when I came home, and card.
T/ze L1]e and Adven/ares of Rubi/moi: Crusoe. 243
Q
\ ' F''
\ I‘
~
I
244 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Chinese, because I saw and knew that they were a contemptible horde or crowd of ignorant
\ ' F''
for I am now launched quite beside my design, I say, in a word, were not its distance incon-
ceivably great from Muscovy, and was not the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill- overned a crowd of slaves as they, the czar of Muscovy might, with much ease, drive
them a out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign; and had the czar, who I
since hear is a growing prince, and begins to a pear formidable in the world, fallen this way,
instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in which attempt none of the powers of Europe would
have envied or interrupted him, he might, by this time, have been emperor of China, instead of
being beaten by the king of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in number.
As their strength and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry, is im er-
fect and impotent, compared to the same things in Europe. Also, in their knowledge, t eir
learning, their skill in the sciences; they have globes and spheres, and a smatch of the know-
ledge of mathematics ; but when you come to inquire into their knowledge, how short-sighted
are the wisest of their students ! They know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bodies ; and
so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when the sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has
assaulted and run away with it; and they fall a clattering with all the drums and kettles in the
countr , to frighten the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.
As t is is the only excursion of this kind which I have made in all the account I have given
of my travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of countries and people; it is none of m
business, or any part of my design; but giving an account of my own adventures, through
a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long variet of changes, which, perha s, few that come
after me will have heard the like of, I shall there ore say ve little of all tlie mighty places,
desert countries, and numerous people, I have yet to pass t rough, more than relates to my
own story, and which my concern among them will make necessary. I was now, as near as I
can compute, in the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty degrees north of the line, for
we were returned from Nanquin; I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had
heard so much of, and father Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of
going away being set, and the other missionary, who was to go with him, being arrived from
Macoa, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go, or not to go; so I referred him to
\ ' F''
\ ' F''
we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or princpal
magistrate, in the province where they reside, and who take great state upon them, travelling
with reat attendance, and with great homage from the people, who are sometimes greatly im-
poverished by them, because all the countries the pass through are obliged to furnish provisions
for them, and all their attendants. That which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
\ ' F''
and our horses, from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for
everything we had after the market-price of the countr , and the mandarin’s steward, or com-
missary of the provisions, collected it duly from us ; so t at our travelling in the retinue of the
mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to us, was not such a mighty favour in him,
but was, indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there were above thirty other people
travelled in the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue, or, as we may call
it, under his convoy. This, I say, was a great advantage to him; for the country furnished
all the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money for them.
\ ' F''
miserably cultivated; the hus andry, the economy, and the way of living, miserable; though
they boast so much of the industry of the people: I say miserable; and so it is; if we, who
understand how to live, were to endure it, or to compare it with our own ; but not so to these
\ ' F''
y nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which call their misery. And I must needs
think the naked savages of America live much more happy, because, as they have nothing, so
they desire nothing; whereas these are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere beggars
' --_
1
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
buildings, and in the keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which is to the last degree
ridiculous, their contempt of all the world but themselves.
I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards, in the deserts and vast wildernesses
of Grand Tartary, than here; and yet the roads here are well paved, and well kept, and very
convenient for travellers; but nothing was more awkward to me, than to see such a haughty,
imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their
famed ingenuity is no more. And my friend, father Simon, and I, used to be very merry upon
these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these people; for example; coming by the house of
a country gentleman, as father Simon called him, about ten leagues off of the city of Nanquin,
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-Andrew, being a
dirty calico, with all the tawdry and trapping of a fool’s coat, such as hanging sleeves, tassels,
and cuts and slashes almost on every side; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher, and
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for
about thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on foot, to drive the oor
creature along; he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about the ead
as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants;
and we were told he was going from the city to his country seat, about half a league before us.
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
at a village about an our to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great man,
we saw him in a little place before his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden,
but he was easy to be seen; and we were given to understand, that the more we looked on him,
the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto-tree, which effectually shaded him over the
head, and on the south side; but under the tree also was placed a large umbrella, which made
that part look well enough; he sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy corpulent
man, and his meat being brought him by two women slaves; he had two more, whose office, I
think, few gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in, viz., one fed the squire with
a spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon his
worship’s beard and taffety vest; while the great fat brute thought it below him to employ his
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
I took this time to think what pain men’s pride puts them to, and how troublesome a haughty
tem r, thus ill-managed, must be to a man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch
to lisase himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really pitied
an contemned him, we pursued our journey; only father Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had to feed on, in all his state; which he said
he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that an English hound would
scarce have eaten, if it had been offered him, viz., a mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
something like our ginger, but smelling like mus , and tasting like mustard; all this was put
together, and a small lump or piece of lean mutton boiled in it. And this was his worship’s
T he Lzfe and Adz/mimes of Robinson Crusoe. 24 5
fed himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.
As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected like a king; surrounded
always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his a pearances with such pomp, that I saw
little of him but at a distance; but this I observed, t at there was not a horse in his retinue,
but that our carriers’ pack-horses in England seemed to me to look much better; but they were
so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings, and such like trumpery, that you cannot see
whether they are fat or lean. In a word, we could see scarce anything but their feet and their
heads.
I ' 'Y‘ I '_I-' 
, V ‘ ‘
.
246 ' The Lzfe and A dvem’ures of Robinson Crusoe.
"- I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have given an account of
being over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which made this journey the leasanter to me;
nor had I any ill accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a sma 1 river, my horse
. fell, and made me free of the count , as the call it; that is to say, threw me in. The place
was not deep, but it wetted me a1 over. mention it, because it s oiled my pocket-book,
wherein I had set down the names of several people and places which I had occasion to
remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and the words were never after
to be read, to my great loss, as to the names of some places I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with me but the youth, whom my nephew
‘the captain had given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent,
and my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portu-
guese pilot, he being desirous to see the Court, we gave him his passage, that is to say, bore his
charges for his'company, and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of
the country, and spoke good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a
most useful implement to us everywhere, for we had not been above a weekat Pekin, when he
came laughing: “Ah! Seignior Inglese,” says he, “I have something to tell you, will make
your heart glad.” “ My heart glad!” says I. “ What can that be? I do not know anything
in this country can either give me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes,” said the old
man, in broken English; “ make you glad, me sorrow,” sorry, he would have said. This made
me more inquisitive. “Why,” said I, “will it make you sorry?" “Because," said he, “you
I ' 'Y‘ I '_I-' 
which way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a ship, without a horse, without pecune ?”
So he called money; being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry with.
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the
city, and they were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to Muscovy, within four or
I ' 'Y‘ I '_I-' 
behind to go back all alone. I confess I was surprised with his news; a secret joy spread itself
over my whole soul, which I cannot describe, and never felt before or since; and I had no power
for a good while to speak a word to the old man; but at last I turned to him: “ How do you
know this?” said I, “ are you sure it is true?” “Yes,” says he, “I met this morning, in the
street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among
them; he came last from Astracau, and was designing to go to Touquin, where I formerly knew
him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and
so down the river Wolga to Astracan.” “Well, Seignior,” says I, “do not be uneasy about
being left to go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be your
fault if you go back to Macao at all.” WVe then went to consulting together what was to be
done, and I asked my partner what he thought of the pilot’s news, and whether it would suit
with his affairs. He told me he would do just as I would, for he had settled all his affairs so
well at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands, that as we had made a good voyage
here, if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth the cam e,
he would be content to go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal by e
company’s ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our Portugal pilot would go with us, we would
bear his charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed
over generous in that part neither, if we had not rewarded him'further, for the service he had
done us was really worth all that and more, for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but
he had been like a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant, was
some hundreds of pounds in our pocket. So we consulted together about it; and being willing
to gratify him, which was, indeed, but doing him justice, and very willing also to have him with
us besides, for he was a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity
’of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about-175 pounds sterling between us, and to
bear all his charges, both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
' ‘Having settled this among ourselves, we called him to let him know what we had‘ resolved.
Itold him he had complained of our being to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell
him we were resolved he should not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go to Europe with
the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us, and that we called him to know his mind.
He shook his head, and said it was a long journey, and he had no “pecune” to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we believed it was so, and
therefore we had resolved to do something for him, that should let him see how sensible we were
of the service he had done us ; and also how agreeable he was to us. And then I told him what
we had resolved to ive him here, which he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that,
as for his charges, if he would go with us we would set him safe ashore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Muscovy or England, whichever he would, at our own charge, except only
the carriage of his goods.
He received the proposal like a man trans rted, and told us he would go with us over the
whole world; and so, in short, we all repared)0 ourselves for the journey. However, as it was
with us, so it was with the other mere ants, they had many things to do; and instead of being
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
goods w ich we had left t ere; and I, with a Chinese merchant, who I had some knowled e
of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekiu on his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bong t
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against my partner’s return:
besides this we bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods; our cargo
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two o’r three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses
in our retinue. '
The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember, made between three and four
hundred horse, and upward of a hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for
all events. For, as the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these
bg the Tartlars; but they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when
t ey prevai .
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
were above sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
to be men of great experience in business, and men of very good substance.
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
gentlemen and merchants; that is to say, all the passengers, except the servants, to a great
council, as they called it. At this great council every one deposited a certain quantity of money
to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the we , where it was not
otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the li e. And here the}r
T/ze Lzfe and A a'ventures of Robinson Crusoe. 247
up, and give the command in case of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command.
Nor was this forming us into order any more than what we found needful upon the way, as shall
be observed in its place.
The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is full of potters and earth-
makers: that is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China ware; and, as I was
coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to make us
merry, came sneering to me, and told me, he would show the greatest rarity in all the country;
and that I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-humoured things I had said of it,
that I had seen one thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was very impor-
tunate to, know what it was; at last he told me, it was a gentleman’s house, built all with China
ware. “ Well," says I, “ are not the materials of their building the product of their own
country; and so it is all China ware, is it not ?” “ No, no,” says he. “ I mean it is a house all
made of China ware such as you call it in England; or, as it is called in our country, porce-
lain.” “ Well,” says I, “such a thing may be. How big is it? Can we carry it in a box
upon a camel? If we can, we will buy it.” “ Upon a camel!” says the old pilot, holding up
both his hands, “ why there is a family of thirty people lives in it.”
I was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to it, it was nothing but this : it was
a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster, but all the
plastering was really China ware, that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that makes
China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very well, perfect white,
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it had been burnt. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of Wainscot, were lined up with
hardened and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call gally tiles in England, all made
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c., as hard as stone,
and smooth, but not burnt, and painted, except some smaller rooms, like closets, which were
all, as it were, paved with the same tile; the ceilings, and in a word, all the plastering-work in
the whole house, were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the
same, but of a deep shining black.
This was a China ware house indeed, truly and literally to be called so; and, had I not been
upon the journey, I could have stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
lain earth, and burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to excel in it; but I am
very sure they excel in their accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things of their
performance in crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it could not
be true.—They told me, in particular, of one workman that made a ship, with all its tackle, and
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
it, and made a voyage to Japan in it, I mi ht have said something to it indeed; but as it was,
I knew the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word, that the fellow
lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it. '
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the leader of it for the day
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and made me ask pardon the next council day: so I promised to be more orderly; for, indeed,
I found afterward the orders made for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for our
common safety.
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
and a very great work it is, going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or, indeed,
climb up, or where, if the did, no wall could hinder them. They tell us, its length is near a
243 T ll: Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it takes : it is about four fathom
high, and as man thick in some places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without trespassin on our orders, for so long the caravan
was in passing the gate; I say, I stood still an hour to loo at it, on every side, near, and far oli’,
I mean, that was within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for
the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most
excellent thing to keep off the Tartars, which he ha pened not to understand as I meant it, and
so took it for a compliment: but the old pilot laug ed. “ O Seignior Inglese,” says he, “ you
speak in colours.” “ In colours !" says I, “ what do you mean by that?’I “ Why you speak
what looks white this way, and black that way; gay one way, and dull another way; you tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me, by that, it is good for nothing but to
keep out Tartars; or, will keep out none but Tartars. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I
on erstand you,” says he ; “ but Seignior Chinese understood you his own way.”
“ Well,” says I, “ Seignior, do you think it would stand out an army of our country people,
i with a good train of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies of miners? Would not
they batter it down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow it up in the air,
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?” “ Ay, ay,” says he, “ I know that.”
The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days
after, for we was then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after-
ward ; but when he knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like the Picts’ wall, and
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not
to be resisted b the naked inhabitants of an open country.
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
for we saw several troops of Tartars rovin about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire con d be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for
they are a mere horde or crowd of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no disci-
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
Our leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it; and
what was this but hunting of sheep! However, it may be called huntin too; for the creatures
are the wildest, and ewiftest of foot, that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a
great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase; for they a pear generally
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with about forty Tartars.
Whether they were hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey,
I know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of a horn very loud, but with
a barbarous sound that I had never heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear again.
We all supposed this was to call their friends about them; and so it was : for in less than half
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us; and as soon as he heard
the horn, he told us, in short, that we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, with-
out loss of time ; and, drawing us up in a line, he asked, If we were resolved? We told him,
We were ready to follow him; so he rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us, like a
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any order at all; but as soon as
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance; for their arrows all fell a little short of us,
but with so true an aim, that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed.
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, to fall in among them sword in hand;
for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved with
that vigour and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool courage too, that I never saw
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
T lw Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson C rusoc. 249
any of them made was on our right, where three of them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of scymitar in their hands, and their bows hanging at their
backs. Our brave commander, without asking any body to follow him, gallops up close to them,
and with his fusil knocks one of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
all our mutton that we had in chase got away. .We hadnot a man killed or hurt; but, as for
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
lanew,. that the other party was so frightened with the noise of our guns, that they made off _
and never made any attempt upon us.  _
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the Tartars were not so bold
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
days’ and nights’ march; and we were obligedto carry our water with us in great leather
bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.
I asked whose dominion this was in ? and they told me this was a kind of border that might
be called No Man’s Land ; bein a part of the Great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; but that,
however, it was all reckoned to hina; but that there was no care taken here to preserve it from
the inroads of thieves; and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole world,
though we were to go over some much larger. 
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
or three times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to
have no design upon us; and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing to say to
us, we had nothing to say to them; we let them go. 1
Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it was to
consider what they should do. whether attack us, or not attack us, that we knew not; but when
we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-guard of forty men, and stood ready
for them, letting the caravan pass half a mile, or thereabouts, before us. But after awhile they
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
wounded a horse, so that it disabled him; and we left him the next day, poor creature, in great
need of a good farricr. We suppose they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of
us; but we saw no more arrows, or Tartars, that time.
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the dominions of the Emperor of China; but lay, for t e most part, in villages, some of which
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
(it was about two days and a half journey before we were to come to the city N aum), I wanted
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses
also, such as they are, because so many caravans coming that way, they are very often wanted.
The person that I spoke to to get me a camel, would have gone and fetched it for me; but I,
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels and horses feeding under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot, being very desirous forsooth, of a little variety. “Then
we came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away; and the Chinese man
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
of them seized the fellow, and took the camel from him, while other three stepped up to me and
m old pilot; seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword,
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
upon my drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards); but a second coming upon my left,
gave me a blow on the head,.which I never ‘felt 'till' afterwards, and wondered, when Icame
.250 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese(so Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances
from dangers which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol.in his pocket, which I knew nothing-of,
nor the Tartars neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have attacked us; but cowards
are always boldest when there isno danger. _ a
The old man, seeing me down,‘ with a bold heart step ed 11 to the fellow that had struck me,
and la ing hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him dbwn by main force a little towards
him with the other,he shot him into the head, and laid him dead upon the spot; he then imme-
diately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could come forward
again (for it was all done as it were in a moment) made a blow at him with a scymitar, which
he always wore, but missing the man, cut his horse into the side of his head, eut one of his ears
off by the root, and a great slice down the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with the
wound, was no more to be governed by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too; but
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese came in, who had lost the camel, but he had no weapon;
however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, he runs to him, and seizing
upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something like a pole-axe, but not a pole-
axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
still too, and falls to work with his tackle to charge his pistol again: but as soon as the Tartar
saw the pistol, whether be supposed it to be the same or another, I‘know not; but away he
scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him afterward, a complete victory.
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
in a sweet sleep ; but, as I said above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground,
and what was the matter; in a word, a few moments after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though
I did not know where ; I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I felt my
head ache; and then, in another moment, memory returned, and everything was present to me
again.
I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but no enemies in view. I
found a Tartar is dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him; and looking farther, I
saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming back
with his hanger in his hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and
embraced me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a broken head; neither
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
hurt, and which was weli'a ain in two or three days.
We made no great gain, owever, by this victory ; for we .lost a camel, and gained a horse :
but that which was remarkable, when we came back to the village, the man demanded to be
paid for the camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chinese judge of
the place; that is to say, in English, we went before a justice of the peace. Give him his due,
he acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality; and having heard both sides, he gravely
asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was. “ I am no
servant,” says he, “ but went with the stranger." “ At whose request?” says the justice. “ At
the stranger’s request,” says he. “ Why then,” said the justice, “ you were the stranger’s
servant for the time; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and
he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say; but admiring to see such
just reasoning u on the consequence, and so accurate stating the cause, I paid willingly for the
camel, and sent 'or another; but you may observe, I sent for it; I did not go to fetch it myself
any more; I had enough of that. . _ _
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
 T he Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 I
which, I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with their bows and arrows;
but to call it strong, if it were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who understand
it laugh at you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two da s’ journey of this city, when messengers were sent
_express to every part of the road, to tell al travellers and caravans to halt, till'they had a
guard sent for them ; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making 10,000 in all, had appeared
.in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city. 
This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully done of the governor, and
we were very glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly, two days aftenwe had 200
1 ska-J- _ —‘
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and 300 more from the city of Naum,
and with those we advanced boldly ; the 300 soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the 200
in our rear, and our men on each side of our camels with our baggage, and the whole caravan
in the centre : in this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the
whole 10,000 Mongul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next day, when they did appear,
it was quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when marching from a little well-situated town, called Changu,
we had a river to pass, where we were obliged to ferry; and had the Tartars had any intelli-
gence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over, the rear-guard
was behind; but they did not appear.
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand; and they
were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the day before, began to stagger,
and the soldiers frequently looked behind them; which is a certain sign in a soldier, that he
is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and being near me he called out,
“ Seignior Inglese," says he, “those fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for
if the Tartars come on, they will never stand it.” “ I am of your mind,” said I: “ but what
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
without, they will every man turn his back.” Immediately I rode up to our leader, and told
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
to make another body by themselves, and to guard the camels: only that, if need were, they
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they were; how many, we
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and as we found them within gun-
shot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot, which was done; but they went off, and I suppose back to give an account of
the reception they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute clogged their stomachs;
for they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling ofl‘ to the left, they
gave over the design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very agreeable to our
circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with such a number.
Two days alter this we came to the city of Naun, or Naum. ‘Ve thanked the governor for
his care for us, and collected to the value of 100 crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the
soldier sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there
were 900 soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay
nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part of the country
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
had yet above 2000 miles to Muscovy, properly so called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts, one of which we were six-
teen da s passing over, and which, as I said, was to be called No Man’s Land; and on the 13th
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
or fortress, whatever it might be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called
Argun, being on the west side of the river Argun.
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
it, a Christian country; or, at least, in a country governed by Christians; for though the Mus-
covites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians (yet such they pretend to be,
and are very devout in their way); it would ce'tainly occur to any man who travels the world
2 5 2 T lze Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/ma/z Crusoe.
what a blessing it is to be brought into the world where the name of God and of a Redeemer
is known, worshipped, and adored—and not where the people, given up by Heaven to strong
_-4
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones; worship monsters,
elements, horrible-shaped animals, and statues, or images of monsters. Not a town or city
we passed through but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples; and ignorant people
worshipping even the works of their own hands !
Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship appeared, where the knee was
bowed to Jesus ; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the
name of the true God was called upon and adored; and it made the very recesses of my soul
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 3
ledgment of this; and, taking him by the hand, I said to him, “ Blessedbc God, we are once
again come among Christians !” He smiled, and answered, “ Do not rejoice too soon, country-
man; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it, you
may see very little of the substance for some months farther of our journey.”
“ Well,” says I, “ but still it is better than paganism and worshipping of devils.” “ Why, I’ll
tell you," says he; “ except the Russian soldiers in garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of
the cities upon the road, all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles farther, is
inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans :” and so indeed we found it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I understand anything of
the surface of the globe, that is to be found in any part of the earth: we had at least 1200
miles to the sea, eastward; we had at least 2000 to the bottom of the Baltic sea, westward;
and above 3000 miles, if we left that sea, and went on west, to the British and French channels;
we had full 5000 miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about 800 miles to the frozen
sea, north : nay, if some people may be believed, there might be no sea north-east till we came
round the pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent of land into
America, the Lord knows where; though 1 could give some reasons why I believe that to be a
mistake.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good while before we came to any considerable
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 3
I understood by the c arts which some in our caravan had with them, it was plain all those
rivers run into the great river Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural course of it,
must run into the east sea, or Chinese ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz. three foot about, and twent or
thirty foot high, I must be allowed say, I believe nothing of ; but as its navigation is o no
use, because there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it belongs, dealing in nothing
but cattle; so nobody that ever I heard of, has been curious enough either to go down to the
mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river running due east, in the latitude of sixty degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 3
Some leagues to the north of this river there are several considerable rivers, whose streams run
as due north as the Yamour runs east; and these are all found to join their waters with the
great river Tartarus, named so from the northernmost nations of the Mongol Tartars, who, the
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 2 5 3
Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story.
These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I am yet to speak of, make
it evident that the northern ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does not seem
rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself to join with America on that side,
or that there is not a communication between the northern and the eastern ocean; but of this
I shall say no more ; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moderate journeys, and were very
visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as
many places as are possible to lace them, where his soldiers keep garrison, something like the
stationary soldiers placed by e Romans in the remotest countries of their empire, some of
which I had read particularly were placed in Britain for the security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers: and thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these towns and
stations, the garrisons and governor were Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
America did. -
Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna, where we enter the Mus-
covite dominions, and a city of Tartars and Russians together called Nertzinskay; in which is
a continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over it. In a village, near the
last of those places, I had the curiosity to go and see their way of living; which'is most brutish
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
old stump of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful as the devil; at least as anything we can
think of to represent the devil can be made. It had a head certainly not so much as resembling
any creature that the world ever saw; ears as big as goats’ horns, and as high; eyes as big as
a crown piece; a nose like a crooked ram’s horn, and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
manner that you could suppose; its u per garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward;
a great Tartar bonnet on the head, wit two horns growing through it: it was about eight foot
high, yet had no feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts.
7This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and when I came near to it,
there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, for they
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
round this formidable block of shapeless wood. I saw no motion among them any more than if
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet; and raised a howling cry, as if it
had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased at our
disturbing them. A little way off from the island, and at the door of that tent or hut, made
all of sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers. I thought they were such; when
I came nearer to them, I found they had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of the
tent appeared three sheep killed, and one (young bullock, or steer. These, it seems, were sacri-
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the offering, and were making their
prayers to that stock. ' -
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a hobgoblin, than ever
I was at anything in my life: to see God’s most glorious and best creature, to whom He had
granted so many advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the works of‘ His hands. vested
with a reasonable soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to
honour his Maker, and be honoured by Him; sunk and degenerated to a degree so more than
stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary object dressed up by
themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts
and rags; and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish
devotion by the devil himself; who, envying (to his Maker) the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things, as one
would think should shock nature itself.
25.1. i T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabi/Ison Crusoe
it before my eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think it impossible. All my
admiration turned to rage; and I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you will, and
with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down
by one of the horns; and one of our men that was with me, took hold of the sheep-skin that
covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling ran through the
village, and two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I‘ was glad to scour for
it; for we saw some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
a am.
gOur caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles off, in order to pro-
vide some horses, which they wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with
the badness of the way, and long march over the last desert; so we had some leisure here to
put my design in execution. I communicated my project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
what indignation I had since thought, that human nature could be so degenerate. I told him,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
to go and destroy that vile abominable idol; and let them see that it had no power to help
itself, and consequently could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
He laughed at me: says he, “ Your zeal may be good; but what do you propose to yourself
by it ? ” “ Propose!” said I; “ to vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-
worship." “ But how will it vindicate the honour of God ? ” said he, “while the people will not be
able to know what you mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and tell them so; and then
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
especially in defence of their idolatry." “Can we not,” said I, “do it in the night, and then
leave them the reasons and causes, in writing, in their own language?” “Writing!” said he,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
read a word in any language, or in their own.” “ \Vretched ignorance l ” said I to him;
“however, I have aegreat mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them,
to let them see how brutish they are to worship such horrid thin s." “ Look you, sir,” said he,
“ if your zeal prompts you to it so warml , you must do it; but in the next place, I would have
you consider these wild nations of peop e are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy’s
dominious; and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands to the governor
of Nertzinskay, and complain, and demand satisfaction, and if he cannot give them satisfaction,
it is ten to one but they revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in the
country."
This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while; but I harped upon the same
string still; and a lthat day I was uneasy to put my project in execution. Towards the evenin ,
the Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the town, and desired to ‘speak wit ‘
me. “ I believe,” said he, “ I ha 1e ut you off of your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since; for I abhor tlib idol and the idolatry as much as you can do.” “ Truly,”
said I, “ you have put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you have not put it at all out of
my thoughts; and, I believe, I shall do it still before I quit this place, though I were to be
delivered up to them for satisfaction." “ N o, no," so. s he; “ God forbid they should deliver you
up to such a crew of monsters; they shall not do t at neither; that would be murdering you
indeed.” “ YVh ," says I. “how would they use me? " “ Use you ! " says he; “ I will tell you
how they serve a poor Russian, who affronted them in their worship just as you did, and who
they took prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not run away; they
took him and stripped him stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol monstenand stood
all round him, and shot as many arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
this the same idol?” “ Yes,” says he, “the ver same.” “ Well,” says I, “ I will tell you a
story.” So I related the story of our men at adagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the
village there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of our men, just as is
related before ; and when I had done, I added, that I thou ht we ought to do so to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story; but when lgtalked of doing so to that village,
says he, “ You mistake very much; it was not this villa e, it was almost a hundred miles from
this place; but it was the same idol, for they carry im about in procession all over the
country.” “\Vell, then,” says I, “then that idol ought to be punished for it; and so it shall,”
says I, “if I live this night out.”
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 25 5
he would go with me; and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us.
“And one,” says he, “ as famous for his zeal as you can desire any one to be against such
devilish things as these.” In a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, who he called
Captain Ric ardson; and I gave him a full account of what I had seen, and, in a word, of
what Lintended; and he told me readily, he would go with me if it cost him his So we
agreed to go, only us three. I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner; but he declined it. He
said he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence; but that
this was an adventure quite out of his way : so, I say, we resolved upon our work, only us three,
and my man-servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with all the secrecy
imaginable.
However upon second thoughts we were willing to delay it till the next night, because the
caravan being to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to
give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots merchant, as
steady in his resolution for the enterprise, as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar’s robe or
gown of the sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided the same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should not be able to determine
who we were.
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
and such other materia s as we con d get; and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot,
about an hour after night we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o’clock at night, and found that the people had not the
least jealousy of danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet the moon gave us light
enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did before. The
people seemed to be all at their rest; only that in the great hut, or tent as we called it, where
we saw the three priests, who we mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
to the place to rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; and w at to do with
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
but when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
tures that were there on the head, when they came out; but I could not join with that; I was
against killing them if it was possible to be avoided. “ Well, then,” said the Scots merchant,
“ I will tell you what we will do; we.will try to take them prisoners, tie their hands behind
them, and make them stand still, and see their idol destroyed.
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us, which was used to tie our
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
it, for one of their idol priests came to the door, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged him that he
might not make a noise; tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would come out to see what the
matter was; but we waited so long till the third man came back to us; and then, nobody
coming out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we served them
just in the same manner, but was obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some distance from one another; when, going back, we found two more were come out to the
door, and a third stood behind them within the door. We seized the two, and immediately
tied them; when the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
it, and threw it in among them : by that time the other Scotsman and my man taking charge
of the two men who were already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to
the idol, and left them there, to see if their idol- would relieve them, making haste back to us.
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
candle, and, following it in, we found there was but four people left, who, it seems, were two
256 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not
able to speak neither, for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the other, and all without any noise. I
"' - J
V .“-.'

ROBINSON CRUSOE DESTROYIXG AN IDOL OF THE TARTARS.
I'ay'e 257.
.1
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
to bear the smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we carried them altogether
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
and his robes also, with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with
brimstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of unpowder; and then we
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
help to burn him; when my man remembered, that by the tent, or hut, where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remember: away he and
one of the Scotsman ran, and fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this, we took
all our risoners, and brought them, having untied their feet, and un agged their mouths, and
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
W O F-
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabonts, till the powder in the eyes, and
month, and ears of the idol blew up, and, we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape;
and, in a word, till we saw it burn into a mere block or log of wood: and then setting the dry
forage to it, we found it would be quite consumed; when we began to think of oing away; but
the Scotsman said, “ No, we must not go; for these oor deluded wretches wilgall throw them-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
was burnt down too, and then we came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for
our journey; nor could an man suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds, as travel-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
But it did not end so ; the next day came a great multitude of the country people, not only
of this village, but of a hundred more, for aught I know, to the town gates; and, in amost
outrageous manner, demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the insulting their
priests, and burning their great Cham-Chi-Thanngu; such a hard name they gave the mon-
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Rabim'on Crusoe. 257
tion; for they said, the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and that in a few days more,
would be one hundred thousand stronger.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave them all the good
words imaginable. He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there had not a soul of
his garrison been abroad; that it could not be from any body there; and if they would let him
know who it was, they should be exemplarily punished. They returned haughtily: That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have decreed to offer violence to his image, but some Christian miscreant; so they called them,
it seems; and they therefore denounced war against him, and allthe Russians; who, they said,
were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to have any cause of war
alleged to be given by him, the Czar having straightly charged them to treat the conquered
country with gentleness and civility, gave them still all the good words he could; at last he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that morning, and erhaps it was some of them
who had done them this injury; and that, if they would be satislibd with that, he would send
after them, to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the
governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account how the thing was; iutimatin withal,
that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make their escape; but that, whet er they
had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward that was possible; and that in the
meantime, he would keep them in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. However, when it came to the caravan, there was
nobody knew anything of the matter; and, as for us that were guilty, we were the least of all
suspected; none so much as asked us the question; however, the captain of the caravan, for
the time, took the hint that the overnor gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and
two nights without any considera le stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus; nor did
make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscovy’s
B
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
tolonies, and where we expected we should be safe; but it is to be observed, that here we began,
for two or three days’ march, to enter u on the vast nameless desert, of which I shall say more
in its place; and which, if we had now een upon, it is more than probable we had been all
destroyed. It was the second day’s march from Plothus, that by the clouds of dust behind us
at a eat distance, some of our people began to be sensible we were ursued; we had entered
the esert, and had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, w en we perceived a very
gaeat‘ body of horse appear on the other side of the lake to the north, we travelling west.
e observed they went away west, as we did; but had supposed we would have taken that
side of the lake, whereas we very happily took the south side; and in two days more we saw
them not, for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to the river
Udda. This is a very great river when it passes farther north; but where we came to it, we
found it narrow and fordable. ‘
The third do. they either found their mistake, or had intelligence of us, and came pouring in
upon us, towar s the dusk of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon
a place for our camp, which was very convenient for the night; for as we were u on a desert,
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
lodge at,‘ and, indeed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two days’ march
to; the desert, however, had some few woods in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all
into the great river Udda. It was in a narrow strait between two little, but very thick woods,
that we itched our little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the night.
‘No y knew but ourselves what we were pursued for; but as it was usual for the Mongol
Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every
night against them, as against armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to be
nrsue . -
p But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most advantageous camp; for
we lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our front; so that we
could' not be surrounded or attacked any way, but in our front or rear: we took care also to
make our front as strong as we could, by placing our packs with our camels and horses, all in a
line on the .inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear.
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
our situation: they did not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers
to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them, that had abused their priests, and burnt
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
the said they would o away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would burn us all
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
see who looked with most guilt in their faces, but, nobody was the word, nobody did it. The
leader of the caravan sent word, he was well assured it was not done by any of our camp ; that
we were pcaceable merchants, travelling on our business; that we had done no harm to them,
_or to an one else; and that therefore they must look farther for their enemies, who had
injured t em, for we were not the people; so desired them not to disturb us; for if they did,
we should defend ourselves.
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
down in the morning, by break of day, to our cam : but, seeing us in such an unaccountable
situation, they durst come no farther than the broo in our front, where they stood, and showed
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked at us awhile, and then setting up a great
258 The Lzfe and Adveutures of Robinson Crusoe.
we sheltered under our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of us was hurt.
‘, "some time after this, we saw them move a little to our right, and expected them on the rear,
when’ a cunnin fellow, a Cossack, as they call them, of J arawena, in the pay of the Muscovites,
'callin to the eader of the caravan, said to him, “I will go send all these eople awayto
3 rather behind
us.’- So he takes his bow and arrows, and, getting on horseback he rides away from our rear
directly, as it‘ were, back to Nertziuskay; after this he takes a great circuit about and comes
to the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them a long story, that the
people who had burnt their Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of mis-
creants, as he called them; that is to say, Christians; and that they had resolved to burn the
god Scal Isarg, belonging to the Tongueses. _
As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their language, he counterfeited
so well that they all took it from him, and away they drove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 259
entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more of them, and we never knew w ether
they went to that other place called Sibeilka or no.
So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Muscovites,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 259
march, and with want of rest in the night.
From this cit we had a frightful desert, which held us three-and-twenty days’ march. We
furnished ourse ves with some tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the night;
and the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country, for ca ‘ug
our water and provisions; and these carriages were our defence every night round our ittle
camp; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they
would not have been able to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long journey, for in this desert we saw
neither house or tree, or scarce a bush. We saw abundance of the sable-hunters, as they called
them. These are all Tartars of the Mongul Tartary, of which this country is a part; and they
frequently attack small caravans; but we saw no numbers of them to ether. I was curious to
see the sable-skins they catched, but could never speak with any of t em; for they durst not
come near us, neither durst we struggle from our company to go near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well inhabited; that is to say,
we found towns and castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary
soldiers to protect the caravans and defend the country against the Tartars, who would other-
wise make it very dangerous travelling, and his czarish majesty has given such strict orders
for the well guarding the caravans and merchants that, if there are any Tartars heard of in the
country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see the travellers safe from station to
station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, who I had opportunity to make a visit to, by means of
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 259
thought there was any danger, to the next station.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 259
 better peopled and the people more civilized; but I found myse mistaken in both, for we had
yet the nation of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism
and barbarity, or worse, than before; only, as they were conquered by the Muscovites, and
entirely reduced, they were not so dangerous; but for rudeness of manners, idolatry, and multi-
theism, no people in the world ever went beyond them. They are clothed all in skins of beasts,
and their houses are built of the same. You know not a man from a woman, neither by the
ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes; and in the winter, when the ground is
covered with snow, they lived under ground, in houses like vaults, which have cavities going
from one to another.
If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a whole village, or country, these had idols
in every hut and in every cave. Besides, they worshipped the stars, the sun, the water, the
snow; and, in a word, everything that they do not understand, and they understand but very
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 259
But I am no more to describe people than countries, any farther than my own story comes
to be concerned in them. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all this country, which,
I reckon, was, from the desert which I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being
another desert, which took us up twelve days’ severe travelling, without house, or tree, or bush;
but were obliged again to car our own provisions, as well water as bread. After we were out
of this desert, and had traveled two days, wegcame to Janezay, a Muscovite city or station,
n
on the great river Janezay. This river, they told us, parted Europe from Asia, though our
map-makers, as I am told, do not a ree to it. However, it is certainly the eastern boundary
of the ancient Siberia, which now makes up a province only of the vast Muscovite empire, but
is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the Muscovite
garrison. All the country between the river Oh and the river Janezay is as entirely pagan,
and the people as barbarous, as the remotest o the Tartars; nay, as any nation, for aught
I know, in Asia or America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite governors, who I
had opportunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not much the wiser or the nearer
Christianity for being under the Muscovite Government, which they acknowledged was true
enough, but, as they said, was none of their business; that if the Czar expected to convert his
Siberian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending clergyman among them,
not soldiers; and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not
sobmuch the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as it was to make them
su JGCtS.
From this river to the great river Oby we crossed a wild, uncultivated country. Icannot
say it is a barren soil; it is only barren of people and good management; otherwise, it isin itself
a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in it are all
pagans, except such as are sent among them from Russia ; for this is the country, I mean on
oth sides of the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put to death are
banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they should ever come away.
260 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
city of Siberia, where I continued some tune on the following occasion :—
We had been now almost seven months on our journey, and winter began to come on apace;
whereupon my partner and I called a council about our particular affairs, in which we found it
proper, considering that we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, to consider how to
dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges and rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the
winter-time; and, indeed, they have such things that it would be incredible to relate the
particulars of, by which means the Russians travel more in the winter than they can in summer,
because in these sledges they are able to run night and day. The snow, being frozen, is one
universal covering to nature, by which the hills, the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth
and hard as a stone, and they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I was bound to England,
not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways. Either I must go on as the caravan went till I
came to J arislaw, and then go of f west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so either by sea
or land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage; or I must
leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to
260 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
am urg . ‘
Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been preposterous; for, as to
Dantzic, the Baltic would be frozen up, and I could not get passage, and to go by land in those
countries was far less safe than among the Mongul Tartars; likewise, to go to Archangel, in
October all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the merchants, who dwell there in
summer, retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone, so that I should have
nothing but- extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie there in
an empty town all the winter; so that, upon the whole, I thought it much my better way let the caravan go, and to make provision to winter where I was, viz. at Tobolski, in Siberia, m
the latitude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country afforded, a warm house, with fuel enongh,and
excellent company, of all which I shall give a full account in its place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my beloved island, where I never felt cold
except when Ihad my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on my
260 T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robiuson Crusoe.
Now I made me three good vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the
Al
feet, and button close to the wrists, and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
Warm.
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
in the room cold as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good house in the town, I
ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove;
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
E land.
y this means we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and an equal heat was pre-
served; and how cold soever it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we saw no
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to meet with good company
here, in a country so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the frozen
ocean, and within but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla.
But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all
banished, this city was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees
of the nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was the famous Prince
Galiczen; the old general Robostisky, and several other persons of note, and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, who nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
the long winter nights, in which I stayed here, I received several very agreeable visits. It was
talking one night with Prince -—, one of the banished ministers of state belonging to the
Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my particular case began. He had been telling me abun-
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
of the Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and told him, I was a greater and more
powerful prince than ever the Czar of Muscovy was, though my dominions were not so large,
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
steadil upon me, began to wonder what I meant.
I to d him his wonder would cease when I had explained myself. First, I told him, I had
the absolute dis osal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects. That notwithstanding my
absolute power, I had not one person disaffected to my government or to my erson, in all my
dominions. He shook his head at that, and said, “There, indeed, I outdid t e Czar of Mus-
covy.” I told him, that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my subjects were
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, and
yet so horribly feared by his subjects.
After amusing them with these riddles in government for awhile, I opened the case, and told
them the story at large of my living in the island, and how I managed both myself and the
people there that were under me, ’ust as I have since minuted it down. They were exceedingly
taken with the story, and especia y the prince, who told me with a sigh, that the true great-
ness of life was to be master of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a state of
life as mine to have been Czar of Muscovy; and that he found more felicity in the retirement
he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in the highest authority he enjoyed in
the court of his master, the Czar: that the height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers
down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, under the weight of the greatest scorns
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
clothes from his back, as others had done before him; but a little time and consideration had
made him look into himself, as well as aroumbhim, to things without; that he found the mind
The Lzfe and A dventures of Robinson Crusoe. 261
this world was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for
itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very
little assistance from the world; that air to breathe in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth,
and liberty for exercise, in order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world could
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
\
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
do for us ; and though that greatness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures, which some
enjoyed in the world, and which he had enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was agree-
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
such as our ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our vanity, and our sensuality; all
which were, indeed, the mere product of the worst part of man, were in themselves crimes, and
had in them the seeds of all manner of crime; but neither were related to or concerned, with
any of those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of those graces which distinguished us
as Christians: that being now deprived of all the fancied felicity, which he enjoyed in the full
exercise of all those vices, he said, he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them, where
he found all manner of deformity; and was now convinced, that virtue only makes a man truly
wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in a future state ;
and in this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment, than all their enemies were,
who had the full possession of all the wealth and power that they (the banished) had left
behind them. 
“ Nor, sir,” said he, “ do I bring my mind to this politically, by the necessity of my circum-
stances, which some call miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I would not now go
back, though the Czar, my master, should call me, and reinstate me in all my former grandeur ;
I say, I would no more go back to it, than I believe my soul, when it shall be delivered from
this prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would come back
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
crime of human affairs.”
He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much earnestness and motion of his
spirits, which were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident it was the true sense of his
soul; there was no room to doubt his sincerity.
I'told him, I once thought to self a kind of a monarch in my old station, of which I had given
him an account, but that I t ought he was not a monarch only, but a great conqueror; -for
that he that has got a victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the absolute dominion
over himself, whose reason entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he that conquers
a city. “ But, my lord," said I, “ shall I take the liberty to ask you a question?" “ With
all my heart,” says he. “ If the door of your liberty was opened," said I, “ would you not take
hold of it to deliver yourself from this exile? ”
“Hold,” said he, “ your question is subtle, and requires some serious just distinctions to give
it a sincere answer; and I will give it you from the bottom of my heart. Nothing that I know
of in this world would move me to deliver myself from this state of banishment, except these
two. First, the enjoyment of my relations; and, secondly, a little warmer climate; but I pro-
test to you, that to go back to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a
minister of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that is to sa , follies of a courtier;
if my master should send me word this moment, that he restores me to al he banished me from;
I protest, if I know m self at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these
frozen lakes, for the pa ace of Moscow.”
“ But, my lord,” said I, “perhaps you not only are banished from the pleasures of the court,
and from the power, and authorit , and wealth, you enjoyed before, but you may be absent too
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
der'ed ; and the supplies left you here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life. ’
“ Ay," said he, “ that is as you suppose me to be, a lord, or a prince, &c. So, indeed, I am;
but on are now to consider me only as a man, a human creature, not at all distin ’shed from
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
persons of rank ; we ive perfectly retired, as suited to a state of banishment; we have some
thing rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere necessity of
hunting for our food; but the poor soldiers who are here, without that help, live in as much
plenty as we; who go into the woods, and catch sables and foxes; the labour of a monthwill
maintain them a year; and as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard to get
I‘ “W ‘- ‘FF—w
I have not room to ive a full account of the most agreeable conversation I had with this
truly great man; in al which he showed that his mind was so inspired with a superior know-
ledge of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his con-
tem t of the world was reall as much as he had expressed, and that he was always the same
to e last, as will a pear in t e story I am going to tell. 
I had been here eight months, and a dark dreadful winter I thought it to be; the cold was
so intense, that I could not so much as look abroad without bein wrapped in furs, and a
mask of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for reath, and two for si ht.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
and six at most; only that the snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather clear,
it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather starved) under ground; and, as for
our servants (for we hired three servants here to look after our horses and selves), we had eve
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
fall oE. "
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the walls thick, the lights
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
of mutton, and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good beef. All the stores of provisions for the
winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured; our drink was water mixed with aqua~vitae
instead of brandy; and, for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have excellent
good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought us ii]. fresh venison,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
a good stock of tea, with which we treated our friends as above; and in a word, we lived very
cheerfully and well, all things considered. _
It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer, and the weather at least toler-
able; so the other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
for Muscovy, or the Ba tic, I made no motion, knowing very well, that the ships from the south
do not set out for that part of the world till May or June; and that if 1 was there b the
beginning of Au ‘ust, it would be as soon as any Shi s would be ready to go away; and t ere-
fore, I sa , I ma e no haste to be gone, as others ‘d; in a word, I saw a great many people,
nay, all t e travellers, go away before me. It seems, every year they go from thence to Moscow
for trade; viz. to carry furs, and buy necessaries with them, which the bring back to furnish
their sho s; also others went of the same errand to Archangel; but t en they also, being to
come bac again above eight hundred miles, went all out before me.
In short, about the latter end of May, I began to make all ready to pack up; and as I was
doing this, it occurred to me, that seeing all these people were banished by the Czar of Museovy
to Siberia, and yet, when they came there, were left at liberty to go whither they would; why
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
to examine what should hinder them from making such an attem t.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that subject wit the person I have mentioned,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 263
the condition we are in; especially,” said he, “the generality of the people who are banished
hither. We are surrounded,” said he, “ with stron er things than bars and bolts: on the
north side an unnavigable ocean, where ship never sa’ ed, andlboat never swam; neither, if we
had both, could we know where to go with them. Every other way',” said he “ we have above a
thousand miles to pass through the Czar’s own dominions, and y ways utterly impassable,
except by the roads made by the governor, and by the towns garrisoned by 1ii8 troops; so that
we could neither pass undiscovered by the road, or subsist any other way; so that it is in vain
‘to attempt it."
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in a prison every jot as secure if as
they had been locked ‘up in the castle at Moscow; however, it came into my thought, that I
might certainly be made an instrument to procure the escape of this excellent person, and that
whatever hazard I ran, I would certainly try if I could carry him off. Upon this I took an
occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts: I represented to him, that it was very easy for
me to carry him away, there being no guard over him in the country; and as I was not going
to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which I was not
obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where I would immediately secure him on
board an English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along with me; and as to his sub-
sistence, and other particulars, it should be my care, till he could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the while I spoke: nay, I
could see in his very face, that what I said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment; his
264 The Lzz and Adventures of Roziinson Crusoe.
erceived in his countenance; nor could he immediately answer me when I had done, and, as
it were, expected what he would say to it: but after he had paused a little, he embraced me,
and said, “ How unhappy are we! unguarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts
of friendship are made snares to us, and we made tempters of one another! My dear friend,"
said he, “ your offer is so sincere, has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so
calculated for my advantage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world if I did not
both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation I have u on me to you for it. But did you
believe I was sincere in what I have so often said to you o my contempt of the world 9 Did
you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I hadreally obtained that degree of felicity
ere, that had placed me above all that the world could give me, or do for me ? Did you
believe I was sincere, when I told you I would not o back, if I was recalled even to be all that
once I was in the court, and with the favour of the Dzar, my master? Did you believe me, my
friend, to be an honest man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite? "—Here he
stopped, as if he would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I soon after perceived, that he
stopped because his spirits were in motion; his reat heart was full of struggles, and he could
not go on. I was I confess, astonished at the t ing, as well as at the man, and I used some
arguments with him to urge him to set himself free; that he ought to look upon this as a
door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by Providence, who has the care
and disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to render himself useful in the world.-
He had by this time recovered himself. " How do on know, sir,” says he, warmly, “ that,
instead of a summons from Heaven it may not be a femt of another instrument, representing,
in all the alluring colours, to me, the show of felicity as a deliverance, which may in itself be
my snare, and tend directly to my ruin ? Here I am free from the temptation of returning to
my former miserable greatness; there I am not sure, but that all the seeds of pride, ambition,
avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in nature, ma revive and take root, and in a word,
again overwhelm me; and then the happy prisoner, who you see now master of his soul’s
liberty, shall be the miserable slave of his own senses, in the full of all personal libert . Dear
264 The Lzz and Adventures of Roziinson Crusoe.
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the expense of
the future happiness which now I have in my view, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight
264 The Lzz and Adventures of Roziinson Crusoe.
and overthrow me as any man. 0 be not my friend and my tempter both together! "
If I was en rised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood silent, looking at him; and,
indeed, admire at what I saw; the struggle in his soul was so great, that though the weather
was extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I ound he wanted to give vent to
his mind; so I said a word or two, that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him
again; and then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of my room, and I was goin to
open the door; but he had opened it, and came in. “ dear friend," says he, “ you had
a most overset me, but I am recovered : do not take it ill that I do not close with your offer;
I assure you, it is not for want of a sense of the kindness of it in you; and I came to make the
most sincere acknowledgment of it to you; but, I ho , I have got the victory over myself.”
264 The Lzz and Adventures of Roziinson Crusoe.
264 The Lzz and Adventures of Roziinson Crusoe.
a
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
free man.”
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him of my having no end in
it, but a sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me very passionately, and assured me, he
was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
I would have avoided them, but he would not be refused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship, with a small present of tea, and two
pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six
ounces, or thereabout; but were far short of the value of his sables, which, indeed, when I
came to England, I found worth near 200E. He accepted the tea and one piece of the damask,
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more, and he sent word by my servant,
that he desired to s eak with me.
When I came to ’m, he told me, I knew what had passed between us, and hoped I would
not move him any more in that affair; but that, since I had made such a generous oEer to
him, he asked me, if I had kindness enough to offer the same to another person that he
would name to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I told him, that I could not say
I inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for whom I had a particular value, and should
have been glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance: however, if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him my answer, and hoped he would not be displeased
with me, if he was with my answer. He told me, it was only his son, who, though I had not
seen, yet was in the same condition with himself, and above two hundred miles from him, on the
other side the Oby: but that, if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some ceremony in letting him
understand that it was wholly on his account; and that seein I could not prevail on him, I
would show my respect to him by my concern for his son: but t ese things are too tedious to
repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, and in about twenty days he came back
with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with very rich furs, and which, in the
whole, amounted to a very great value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but left the young lord at a distance till night,
when he came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to me; and, in short,
we concerted there the manner of our travellin , and every thing proper for the journey.
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
furs as are very rich ; I say, I had bought them in that city in exchange for some of the goods
I brought from China; in particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest
part here; and the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could have
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
particularly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of
T he Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 265
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in
the world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it should
be much talked of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being only thirty-two horses
and camels in all, and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of
eleven of them. It was most natural also, that I should take more servants with me than I had
before, and the young lord passed for my steward; what great man I passed for myself I know
not, neither did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst and the largest desert to
pass over that we met with in all the journey; indeed I call it the worst, because the way was
very deep in some places, and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
thou ht we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side
the river Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who
was perfectly acquainted with the country; and led us by private roads, that we avoided
coming into the principal towns and cities upon the great road, uch as Tumen, Soloy Kamaskoy,
and several others; because the Muscovite garrisons, which are kept there, are very curious
and strict in their observation upon travellers, and searching lest an of the banished persons
of note should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but by t is means, as we were ke t
out 'of the cities, so our whole journey-was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp and lie in
our tents, when we might have had ver good accommodation in the cities on the way: this
the young lord was so sensible of, that e would not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to
several cities on the way; but lay abroad himself, with his servant, in the woods, and met us
always at the appointed places. -
We were just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which, in these parts, is the
266 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Kamaskoy, which is as much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people,‘ their manner, their habit, their religion,
and their business; but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to pass, which, by
relation, is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it; so, till we came ast that horrible lace, we found very little difference
between that country and the Mongul artary; the peop e mostly Pagans, and little better
than the savages of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of living
wholly barbarous, except in the cities as above, and the villages near them; where they are
Christians. as they call themselves, of the Greek Church; but have their religion mingled with
so many reliques of superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere sorcery
and witchcraft.
In passin this forest, I thought, indeed, we must, after all our dangers were, in our imagina~
tion, escaped, as before, have been plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered by a troo of
thieves; of what country the were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi, a kind) of
Tartars, or wild people on the auk of the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were the
sable-hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried
266 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
within about two musket shot; and, asking no questions, they surrounded us with their horse,
and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at length they placed themselves _just in our way;
upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all;
and being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant who attended his lord,
to see who they were; his master was the more willing to let him go, because he was nota
little apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out after him.
266 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
several of their languages, or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word
they said: however, after some signs to him _not to come nearer to them at his peril, so he
said he understood them to mean, offering to shoot at him if he advanced, the fellow came back
no wiser than he went, only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars
of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes; and that there must be more of them upon the great
desert, though he never heard that any of them ever were seen so far north before.
This was small comfort to us ; however, we had no remedy : there was on our left hand, at
' about a quarter of a mile’s distance, a little grove or clung) of trees, which stood close together,
and very near the road; I immediately resolved we woul advance to those trees, and fortify
266 T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
measure cover us from their arrows; and in the next place, they could not come to charge us
in a body : it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it; and who had this excel-
lency attending him, namely, that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage
us in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately with what speed we could, and
gained that little wood, the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping their
stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of ground, and, on the one side, a very great spring
of water, which running out in a little 1111 or brook, was alittle farther joined by another of the
like bigness; and was, in short, the head or source of a considerable river, called afterwards
the Wirtska. The trees which grew about this spring, were not all above two hundred, but
were very large and stood pretty thick ; so that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly
safe from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us on foot.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
great arms of the trees, and laid them hanging, not cut quite off, from one tree to another; so
that he made a continued fence almost round us.
We stayed here, waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, without perceiving they made
any motion; when about two hours before night, they came down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it, we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so
that they were near fourscore horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
ball, and called to them in the Russian tongue to know what they wanted, and bid them keep
off ; but as if they knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a double fury directly up
to the wood-side, not imagining we were so barricaded, that they could ‘not break in; our old
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
them till they came within pistol shot, and that we might be sure to kill: and that when we
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so sure) that we killed fourteen of them,
and wounded several others, as also several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets, at least.
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
from us; in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
coming up to the dead, we could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not from what
country, or how they came to make an excursion such an unusual length.
About an hour after they made a motion to attack us again, and rode round our little wood
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
f
again, and we resolved not to stir from the place for that mght.
We slept little, you may be sure; but s cut the most part of the night in strengthening our
situation, and barricadin g the entrances mto the wood; and, keeping a strict watch, we waited
for dayli ht, and, when it came it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enemy,
who we t ought were discouraged with the reception they had met with, were now increased to
no less than three hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were
resolved to besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched upon the open plain, at about
three-quarters of a mile from us. We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery; and now, I
confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had. The loss of my effects did not lie so
near rue—though they were very considerable—as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
gone through; and even in sight of our port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As
or my partner, he was raging. He declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin, and he
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
my old pilot was of the o inion we were able to resist them all, in the situation we then were
in. And thus we spent the day in debates of what we should do; but towards evening we
found that the number of our enemies still increased; perhaps, as they were abroad in several
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
booty, and we did not know but by the morning they might still be a greater number; so I
began to inquire of those people we had brought from Tobolski, if there was no other or more
private ways, by which we might avoid them in the night, and perhaps either retreat to some
town, or et help to guard us over the desert.
The Si erian, who was servant to the young lord, told us if we designed to avoid them,
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
the Petraz, by which he made no question but we might get away and the Tartars never the
wiser; but he said his lord had told him he would not retreat, but would rather choose to
T/ze Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. ' 267 '
sake of it; that I knew his lord was brave enough by what he had showed already; but that
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to it; and that if he thought it possible for us to
escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered if his lord gave
him such orders, he would lose his life if he did not perform it. We soon brought his lord to
give that order, though privately, and we immediately prepared for the putting it in practice.
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we
were still there; but as soon as it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars (for
our guide would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready laden, we followed our
new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the pole, or north star, all the country being
level for a long'way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still; not that it was
quite dark all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than
we wished it to be, but by six o’clock the next morning we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we found a Russian village, named Kirmaz-
inskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two
hours before night we set out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before, and about seven o’clock we passed a little river called Kirtza, and came
to a good large town inhabited by Russians, and very populous, called Ozomys. There we heard
that several troops, or hordes, of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were
now completely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction, you may be sure.
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Dwina, we were there very happily near the end of our travels by Ian , that river being navigable
in seven days’ passage to Archangel; from hence we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd of July, and
providing ourselves with two luggage-boats and a barge, for our own convenience, we embarked
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
three days on the 'ourney, including our stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and must have
tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the English
ships; when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a
market for our goods as London, we all took freight with him; and having put my goods on
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on board to take care of them; by which
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
all the time we stayed there; and this he did, that he might not be seen in the city, where some
of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August the same year, and, after no extraordinary bad
voyage, arrived in the Elbe the 13th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods—as well those of China as the sables, &c., of Siberia—and dividing the
produce of our effects, my share amounted to 3475i. 17s. 3d., notwithstanding so many losses
we had sustained, and charges we had been at; only remembering that I had included in this
about six hundred pounds’ worth of diamonds which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of
Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, and where he could correspond with those of his
father’s friends who were left alive. He did not part without all the testimonies he could give
me of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince,
his father.
To conclude. Having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, I came from thence overland
to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705, having been gone from England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for a longer journey than all
268 The Lzfe and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

cmmxr AND nrvmsron, rnmrxss, sr. .ioxr’s sonar, Lenoir.
J ‘‘‘‘ Iv.’ u~wwvwvvw \/ vvn, 4 uvuwnc, -,

CHOICE READING.
Bucks suitable for lilnesents, Eihrarizs, d1.
Large fcap. 8vo, Illustrated, extra. cloth, 3:. 611., gilt edges and side.
I. MEN WHO HAVE MADE THEMSELVES : Whence they
Started ; How they Journeyed; \Vhat they Reached. A Book
for Boys. Numerous Illustrations and Portraits. I 5th thousand.
This Work is issued with the view of exciting in the young aspirit of
noble emulation, and a. desire for true greatness. The Lives of upwards of
Thirty Men who have distinguished themselves in Science, Commerce, Lite-
rature, and Travel, are told with spirit. It will be found the best book of
the kind ever issued.
CanterltL—HUlliPi-IRY DAVY, the Inventor of the Spirit
Lamp—JAMES FERGUSON, the Shepherd-boy Astronomer—JAMES
WATT, the Inventor of the Steam Engine—GEORGE STEPHENSON,
the Inventor of the Locomotive Engine—GIOVANNI BATTISTA
BELZONI, the Traveller in Egypt—WILLIAM CAXTON, the First
English Printer—jAmss COOK, the Discoverer of South Sea Islands
—BENJAMTN WEST, the Quaker Artist—SIR WILLIAM JONES, the
Oriental Scholar and Jurist—SIR HENRY HAVELOCK, the Christian
Soldier—JOHN LEYDEN, the Poet and Asiatic Scholar—WILLIAM
GIFFORD, the Learned Shoemaker—ALEXANDER WILSON, the
Ornithologist of America—ROBERT BLOOMFIELD, the Poet of the
Farm—ROBERT BURNS, the Poet of the World—COUNT RUM-
FORD, the Chemist of Comfort—joHN WYCLIFFE, the First Protes-
taut—GEORGE BUCHANAN, the Tutor of an English King—Tnolvms
RUDDIMAN, the Gramniarian—ALEXANDER ADAM, the High
School Rector—BARON HUMBoLDT, the South American Traveller
—JOHN SMEATON, the Builder of the Eddystone Lighthouse—
ROBERT PEEL, the Spinner—JAMES MoRRisoN, the Warehouse-
man—BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, the Wise Printer—WILLIAM Cos-
BETT, the Plough-boy Politician--PETER HoRsERo. the Peasant
Artist—HUGH MILLER, the Geologist Stonemason—ELI WHITNEY,
the Inventor of the Cotton Gln—RICHARD ARKWRIGHT, the Inventor
of the Cotton Water Frame—JOHN OPIE, the Carpenter Artist—
SAMUEL BUDGETT, the Conscientious Grocer—THOMAS ScoTT, the
Commentator on the Bible—RICHARD BAXTER, the Fervent Preacher
—LoTT CARY, the Negro Colonist—WILLIAM EDWARDS, the Per-
severing Bridge Builder—R. STEPHENSON, the Railway Engineer.
2. THE LION OF WAR; or the Pirates of Loo Chow. A Tale
of the Chinese Seas, for Youth. By F. C. ARMSTRONG, Esq.
Eight Illustrations.
This is a book of Adventures and Incidents for Boys.
,. LUCY NEVILLE AND HER SCHOOLFELLOWS. A
Book for Girls. By MARY and ELIZABETH KIRBY. Eight
Illustrations. Fourth Thousand.
“ Do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with thy God."

8, Lovell’: Court, Paternoster Row, London.
Junta.’ urwvlvwvvw v vv-I - vrvvWI'v’ u,

5. THE- LIFE AND TRAVELS OF ALEXANDER VON
HUMBOLDT : with an Account of his Discoveries, and Notices
J ‘‘‘‘ Iv.’ u~wwvwvvw \/ vvn, 4 uvuwnc, -,
Illustrations.
Cements-Early Life—The Voyage and Visit to the Canary
Islands—Excursions about Cumana—Towards the Orinoco—Up
the Orinoco—To Cuba and Back—Colombia and Peru—Mexico—
Results of Humboldt’s Travels—journey to Central Asia—Last
Literary Labours.
6. THE MILITARY HEROES OF ENGLAND, from the In-
vasion of Julius Caesar to the Present Time. Eight Illustrations
Tenth Thousand.
Contain—The Ancient Britons and their Roman Conquerors-
Saxon and Danish Rule—\Villiam of Normandy—Richard the
Lion Hearted—Reigns of John and Henry IlL—Edward 1., and
his Wars with the Welsh and Scots—Edwards II. and IIL—Wars
with Scotland, Wales, and France—The Wars of the Roses—The
Tudor Sovereigns—Cromwell—William of Orange—Marlborough—
acobitc Rebcllions—Chatham, Wolfe, Clive—War with United
totes, India, &c.—Wcllington, Moore—Wars with Ati'ghans, Sikhs.
ii: Cé‘ Napier—Crimea, Indian Mutiny, Havelock, Sir C. Campbell,
c., c.
M.-
10. A POPULAR BOOK ON FLOWERS, GRASSES AND
SHRUBS. With Anecdotes and Poetical Illustrations ; 3.
Glossary of Botanical Terms, and a Copious Index. By MARY
PIRIE. Numerous Illustrations.
A most excellent Book for Young Ladies.
ii. ILLUSTRIOUS MEN‘ : Their Noble Deeds, Discoveries, and
Attainments. Tenth Thousand. Eight Illustrations.
Contents—Alfred the Great — Geoffrey Chaucer — Cardinal
Wolsey—Sir Thomas More—Thomas Cromwell, Earl of Essex—
Hugh Laiimer, Bishop of Worcester—john jewell, Bishop of Salis-
bury~Sir Thomas Gresham—The Admirable Crichton—Sir Francis
Drake—\Nilliam Cecil, Lord Burlcigh—William Shakespere—Sir _
Walter Raleigh —- Francis Bacon — Sir Edward Coke —Thomas
Wentworth, Earl of Strafford— ohn Hamprlcn—Dr. William Har~
vey—Admiral Blake—Edwar Hyde, Earl of Clarendon—John
Milton—John Tillotson—john Locke—Gilbert Burnet, Bishop of‘
Salisbury—William Penn—joseph Addison—john Churchill, Duke
of Marlborough—Sir Isaac Newton—Robert. Walpole—John Dal-
rymple, Earl of Stair—Sir Hans Sloane—General Wolfe—George,
Lord Anson—George, Lord l.yttelton-—\Villiam Pitt, Earl of
Chatham—Sir William BlackstoncwDr. Snmucijohnson—Robert
Lowth, Bishop of London—John Howard—William Murray, Earl
J ‘‘‘‘ Iv.’ u~wwvwvvw \/ vvn, 4 uvuwnc, -,
__
8. Lowell’: Court. Paternoster Row, London.
-""r’'
fame: Blacl’waod 6' Ca, Publishers,
Fame: Blackwood & Cm, Publishers,

l3. ILLUSTRIOUS WOMEN who have Distinguished Themselves
for Virtue, Piety, and Benevolence. 8 Illustrations. q.
ConImI'.-Queen Victoria—Princess Frederick William of Prussia,
the Princess Royai—The Empress Eugenie—the Duchess of Kent—
Queen Adelaide—Lady Jane Grey—Mary, Queen of Scots—Queen
Caroline—Queen Marie Antoinette—Josephine, Queen and Empress
—-Lady Rachel Russell—Eiizabeth Fry, the Prison Reformer—Harriet
Martineau—Amelia Opic—Lady Huntingdon—Hannah More—
Eliza Cook—Felicia Hemans—M rs. Bunyan—Charlotte Corday—
Frederika Bremcr—L. E. L.—-]enny Lind-Joan of Arc—Miss Coutts
-—Florence Nightingale—Elizabeth, Anna, and Emily Blackwell.
I 3. MERCANTILE MORALS. A Book for Young Men entering
upon the Duties of Active Life. With an Appendix, containing
a popular Explanation of the principal Terms used in Law and.
Commerce, with the Moneys, Weights, and Measures of Foreign
Countries, and their English Equivalents. Tenth Thousand.
Contenlr.-\Nealth not the Chief End of Life—Mercantile Morality
-—Making Haste to be Rich—Dangers incident to Young Men in
Large Cities—The Young Merchant needs a Guide—The Young
Merchant in Society— Unsuccessful Merchandise, or, Sabbath
Desecration—Forbidden Gains—The Young Merchant opposes the
Bible—The Young Merchant a Novel Reader—The Young Man
at the Theatre-Sketch of the History of English Trade and Com-
meme—Principal Terms used in Trade and Commerce, &c., &c.
I4. THE REMARKABLE SCENES OF THE BIBLE ; or, The
Places distinguished by Memorable Events recorded in Scripture.
By the late Rev. DR. HuGIIEs, Rector of St. John’s, London.
Numerous Illustrations.
Contents.—Eden—Ararat—Babel—Ur, Ilaran, Moreh—Sodom
and Gomorrah—Moriah—Bethel—Shechem—Dan and Beersheba—
Egypt—The Red Sea—The Wilderness—Rephidim—Sinai—Hor
and Pisgah —_]ordan—Gilgal-]ericho--Gibbon —ShilolI—-Ramoth
Gilead—-Carmel—Bethlehem.
I5. LECTURES ON THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOUR
By Rev. Dr. KIRK. With Preface by Professor MCCRIE.
16. THE RELIGION OF GEOLOGY AND ITS CONNECTED
SCIENCES. By EDWARD HiTcIicocK, D.D., LL.D. With
Corrections and an Additional Lecture, giving a Summary of the
Author’s Present Views on the whole subject, and a copious
Index. Extra cloth. (Cheap Edition, 2:.)
Contents :—Revelation Illustrated by Science—The Epoch of the
Earth’s Creation Unrevealed—Death a Universal Law of Organic
Beings on this Globe from the Beginning—The Noachian Deluge
Compared with the Geological Deluges—The World’s supposed
Eternity—Geological Proofs of the Divine BenevolenceLDivine
Benevolence as Exhibited in a Fallen World—Unity of the Divine
Plan and Operation in all Ages of the World's History—The Hypo—
thesis of Creation by Law—Special and Miraculous Providence—

8, Lovell’: Court, Paternoster Row, London.
{-
The Future Condition and Destiny of the Earth—The Telegraphic
-""r’'
ruth, Rightly Applied, is Religious Truth—Synoptical View of the
Bearings of Geology upon Religion.
I1. DOGS: Their Sagacity, Instinct, and Uses, with Descriptions 0!
their several Varieties. By GEORGE FREDERICK PARDON.
Illustrated by HARRISON WEIR.
:8. THE HOLIDAY BOOK FOR THE YOUNG: Being Short
Readings in History, Geography, Natural History, Theology,
Physics, &c. By WILLIAM MARTIN. With numerous Illustra-
tions. Seventh Edition.
"A work to amuse and instruct, to enlighten the mind and
-""r’'
Contmtr :—Ancient History — Bible Lessons —- Boat-Building~
-""r’'
Prayer—My Grandfather’s Stories—Natural Histoiy—Natum
Theology—~Physics—Picture Lessons—Poetry — Flowers — Teach-
ings from Nature—Thanksgiving for Existence—The Birds-
The Flowers—The Juvenile Lecturer—The Life, Travels, and
-""r’'
Stars—The Sun—The Wonders of Geology.
I9. THE YOUNG STUDENTS HOLIDAY BOOK: Being
Lessons on Architecture, Mechanics, Natural History, Manufac-
ture of Pottery, &c. By WILLIAM MARTIN. Seventh Edition.
With numerous Illustrations.
Content: —A Chronological Epitome of the History of Architec-
ture in England—Austrian Salt Mines—A Wild Boar Hunt—Bible
Lessons—Cleanliness—Coal and Gas—Evening Prayer—History of
Macedon—Persia—Lessons on Things—Lessons on the‘ Lords
Prayer—Mechanics—Morning Prayer—My Grandfather’s Stories—-
Natural History—Physics_Picture Lessons—Architecture—P0etry7
Steam and the Steam-engine—Teachings from Nature—The Electric
‘Telegraph—The juvenile Lecturer: Earthenware and Porcelain—
Ancient Pottery—Porcelain Manufacture—Preparation of Clay and
Flints—Manufacture of Pottery—Painting, Gilding, &c.—The Pump
—The Stereoscope.
'0. STORY OF THE FENINSULAR WAR. By the late MARQUIS
of LONDONDERRY, Colonel of the Second Regiment of Life-
Guards. With continuation by G. R. GLEIG. Witli Portraits
and Illustrations. This work contains a lucid description of the
momentous period between i789 and i815. All the Battles are
described and notices of the leading Generals inserted. Q
II. LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF DR. LIVINGSTONE IN
THE INTERIOR OF SOUTH AFRICA; comprising a
Description of the Regions which he traversed, an Account 01
Missionary Pioneers, and Chapters on Cotton Cultiyation, Slavery.
Wild Animals, &c., &c. By H. G. ADAMS. With Portrait and
Numerous Illustrations.

8. Lovell’: Court. Paternoster Row, London.
._ __ _.'
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
Lr—The Bo , the Man, the Missionary—Missionary_Pioneem
-—floaiiii‘:qualand mi the Griguas—Among the Bechuanisf‘Lake
Ngami—To St. Paui de Loanda—Back to Linyanti—Visit to
Moselckatse—Away to Quillimane -Wild Animals of South Africa—
Cotton Cultivation and Slavery—Journey Home—Recent informa-
tion.
it. THE EARTH: Its Physical Condition, and most Remarkable
Phenomena. By W. M. HIGGINS. Sixth Edition. Numerous
Illustrations.
Con/mts—The Earth in Relation to the Universe—Celestial
Appearances—The Atmosphere and its Properties—Atmospherical
Phenomena Dependent on the Distribution of Heat—Light—
Electrieity—Terrestrial Magnetism—Interior of the Earth—Land
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
I3. HALF-HOURS WITH OUR SACRED POETS. Edited,
with Biographical Sketches, by ALEXANDER H. GRANT, M.A.
slllustrations. Nearly Two Hundred select Pieces from the
writings of more than Eighty Authors of Sacred Poetry are ern-
'IIJIQCCd in this volume, from the Fourteenth Century to the Present
me.
34. GURIOSITDES OF PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, comprising
Avaianches, Icebergs, Trade Winds, Earthquakes, Volcanoes,
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
of a Country and the Mental Development of its Inhabitants, &c.
By W. WITTXCII. 8 Illustrations.
Contents — Snow-Mountains -— Glaciers—Avalanches—Mountain-
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
Trade-Winds—Monsoons—Plains and Deserts -The Sahara—The
Selva, or Forest Desert of the Amasonas—The Pampas—The Llano:
—Earthquakes—Volcauoes.
l5. POPULAR NATURAL HISTORY AND CHARACTERIS-
TICS OF ANIMALS, with Illustrative Anecdotes. By Capt.
T. BROWN.
Contents—Anecdotes of Animals—The Horse Kind—The Cow
Kind—The Sheep Kind—The Deer Kind—The Hog Kind—Of the
Cat Kind—The Dog Kind—The Weasel Kind—The Hare Kind-—
The Rat Kind, &c.—The Bat Kind.
l6. HABITS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ANIMALS AND
BIRDS, with numerous Anecdotes. By Capt. T. BROWN.
Contents—Amphibious Pnimals—Of the Monkey Kind—The
Monkey Proper—Of Pouched Animals, The Great Kangaroo—Oi
the Elephant—Rhinoceros—Hippopotamus—Cameleopard or Giraffe
—_Camel and Dromedary—Bear—Badger—Racoon—Anecdotes 0!
Birds, Ostrich, Emu, Cassowary, Dodo, Solitaire—Oi Rapacious
Birds, Eagle, Condor of America, Vulture, Falcon, er-Falcon,
Common Falcon, Kestrel, Hobby, Merlin, Goshaw , Sparrow
Hawk, Kite, Buzzard, Butcher Bird—The Owl Kind, Horned or
Eagle Owl, Common Horned Owl, Long-cared Owl, Snowy Owl,

Q Lovell’: Court, Paternoster Row, London.

Ba... Owl, Tawny Owl—Of Birds of the Poultry Kind. The Cock
peacock, Turkey, Pheasant, Guinea Hen, Bustard, The Grouse
and Its Congeners—The Partridge and Its Varieties—Birds of the
Pie Kind-The Magpie and its Congeners—jay—The Woodpecker
and its Congeners, Wryneck, Nuthatch—The Cuckoo and its
Varieties—The Parrot and its Congeners—The Pigeon and its Con-
geners, Rock Dove, Ring Dove—Birds of the Sparrow Kind, Song
Thrush, Missel Thrush, Blackbird, Redwing, Fieldfare, Ring
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
car—The Nightingale and other Soft-billed Birds, Nightingale,
Redbreast', Sky-Lark, Wood-Lark, Grasshopper-Lark, Black-cap,
Blue Titmouse, \Vren, House Wren, Golden Crested Wren,
Willow Wren, Wood Wren—White-ear—Pied Wag'rail, Grey
Wagtail, Yellow Wagtail—Rock or Shore Pipit—Meadow Pipit or
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
fame: Blackwooa or 00., rut/noun»,
bling—The Swallow and its Congeners—House Swallow—Chimney
Swallow—Swift—Cape Swallow—Sand Martin—Cliff Swallow—-
Esculent Swallow—European Goat-sucker—The Humming Bird and
Its Varieties.
I1. ILLUSTRATIVE ANECDOTES 0F BIRDS, FISHES,
AND INSECTS, 800. By Captain T. BROWN.
Birds of the Crane Kind-—Small Birds of the Crane Kind—Water-
Fowl—The Penguin Kind—Birds of the Goose Kind—-The Duck
and its Varieties—Cetaceous Animals—Fishes in General—Tin
Shark Tribe—The Ray Tribe in General—The Lamprey and its
Congeners—Sturgeons in General~Spinous Fishes—The Mackerel
Tribe—The Chaetodon Tribe—The Perch Tribe—Surmullets ‘us
General—Gurnards in General—The Doree Tribe—Sticklebacks—
The Mullet Genus—Eels in General—The Cod Tribe—Flat Fish il
General—The Sucking Fish Tribe—The Salmon and its Congenem
—The Pike and its Congeners—The Herring and its Congeners—
Flying Fish in General—The Carp and its Congeners—Crustaceous
Animals in General—The Tortoise and its Congeners—Testaceous
Sheli Fish—TL: Frog Tribe—Lizards and their Congeners—Serpents
in General—Anecdotes of Insects—Concluding Remarks on Insects
—-Worms—Zoophytes—Animalculas.
l8- THE PILGRIM’S PROGRESS FROM THIS WORLD TO
THAT WHICH IS TO COME, delivered under the sirnilitude
_ of a dream, wherein is discovered the manner of his setting out,
his dangerous journey, and his safe arrival at the desired country.
In three parts. By JOHN BUNYAN. “ I have used similitudes'
-—-Hos£a xii. io. With Eight Page Illustrations.
99. LIVES OF THE BRITISH ADMIRALS AND NAVAL
HISTORY OF GREAT BRITAIN, from the Days of Caesar
to the Present Time. By Dr. Joi-m CAMPBELL. Seventh
Edition. Revised and Corrected. Illustrated by Portraits
Numerous Facsimiles and Engravings, and Plans of Battles.
Contmtr—CHAPTER L—The Britons—The Romans—The Saxon!
-The Danes—The Normans -Alfred—Cceur~de'Lion—Reign ol

8, Ln/ell’s Court, Paternoster Row, London
Fame: Blackwood 61* Ca, Publishers,

Henry the Seventh-Origin of the Roial Navy as a distinct service
<-Henry the Eighth—Edward the Sixt —-Mary—Sir John Cabot--
Sebastian Cabot—Howard—Sir John Dudley.
CHAPTER IL—Reign of Elizabeth—Her precautions to restore
Fame: Blackwood 61* Ca, Publishers,
Essex—Sir ohn Hawkins—Sir Francis Drake—Sir Martin F robisher
-Earl of umberland—Sir RobertDudley—Sir Richard Grenville—
james Lancaster.
CHAPTER IlL—Reign ot'james the Fi'st—Sir William Monsan—
Quarrels with the Dutch—Sir Walter Raleigh—Reign of Charles the
First-Sir Robert Mansel—Sir William Morison.
CHAPTER IV.-—Naval History during the Commonwealth—The
Protectorate—Wars with the Dutch—War with Spain—Admiral
Blake—The Restoration—Charles Il.—Struggle with the Dutch for
the Sovereignty of the Seas—James lI.—Duke of Albermarle—Earl
of Sandwich —_ Prince Rupert— Lawson— Kempthorne—Ayscue—
Spragge. '
CHAPTER V.—-Reign of William and Mary—War with France—
Reign of Anne, i689 to I7r4—War with France and Spain-
Aglmiral Benbow—Sir Cloudesley Shovel—Sir George Rooke, and
0 ers.
CHAPTER VL—Relgn ot’ Geo L, i7:4 to r7a7—Byng, Lord
Torrington—Action off Messinarg—esir William jumper—Reign oi
George II., i727 to the Treaty of Aix la Chapelle in i748—Capture
of Portobello—Admiral Vernon—Sir Charles WagerASir John
Norris—Sir Peter Warren—George 11., from the Peace of Aix la
Chapelle to his death in r76o—The Seven Years’ War—Admiral
lohn Byng, his Trial and Execution—Taking of Quebec—Destruc-
tion of the French Fleet in Quiheron Bay—George 111., from his
Accession to the Peace‘ of Paris in i763—Successes in the West
Indies—Actions with the Spanish—Admiral Boscawen—Hawke—
Lord Anson, and others.
CHAPTER VIL-George 111., r763 to r783—Progress of Dis-
eovery—-Byron—Captrin Cook—War of American Revolution—War
with France—War with Spain—War with Holland—Siege of Gib-
raltar—Barrington—I'Keppel—Rodney— Kempent’elt —— Loss of the
Royal George—Si’ ‘ohn Moore—Mau'ice Suckling—Sir Charles
Hardy—Sir Hyde "'ZJKCT—Paul Jones. ’
CHAPTER VIlI.—George III., i783 to the Peace of Amiens,
Fame: Blackwood 61* Ca, Publishers,
-—Lord Hood at Corsica—Ho'atio Nelson—Howe’s Victory ol' the
First of June—Lord Bridport at L’Orient—Blanche and Pique—
Sidney Smith taken prisoner-Nelson‘ at Elba—Successes in the
East and West Indies—Keith Elphinstone at the Cape—Mutiny at
Spithead and the Nore—St. Vincent—Camperdown—Cadiz—Santa
Cruz—The Nile-Acre—The Baltie—Saumarez in the Mediter-
ranean—Peace—Lord Howe—Lord St. Vincent—Sir Sidney Smith—
Lord Duncan.
CHAPTER IX.—Mernolrof Lord Nelson.
CHAPTER X.-George Ill., from i806 to IBzo—The French
still humbled at Sea—Bombardment of Copenhagen— Detached

8, Lovell’: Court, Paternoster Row, Landau.
3o.


fames mackwooa’ ("r Calm
Actions—War with the United States— Criticism on the America!
Aocounts—If‘eace—George IV., i820 to i83o—William lV.,—i83o
to i837—Victor1a, i837 to '848—Collingwood—Cochrane—Trow
bridge — Hood — Bridport — Exmouth — Codrington — Stopford ‘v
Napier.
CHAPTER XL—The Modern British Navy.
MEMORABLE WOMEN: The Story of their Lives. By
Mrs. NEWTON CROSSLAND. Eight Illustrations by Bmxa'r
FosTER. Fifth Edition.
“............Howtolive
And how to die, forms the great question still."
Contents—Rachel Wriothesley—Lady Russell—Madame d’Arblay
and Mrs. Piozzi—Mary L. Ware—Mrs. Hutchinson and Lady Fan-
shawe—Margaret Fuller, Marehesa Ossoli—Lady Sale.
31. THE MISSIONARY IN MANY LANDS: A Series of In-
32.
33’
34-
teresting Sketches of Missionary Life and Labours, and of the
Progress of the Gospel in Foreign Countries. By ERWIN HOUSE,
A.M. Illustrated and Enlarged.
Contents—The Ship Duff and her Voyage—A Long Night of
Tail—The Pioneers in Bengal—Then and Now in New Zealand—
The Cannibals of Fiji— Eighteen Months in a Death-prison—
Christian Martyrs of Madagascar—The Island Orphan Brothers.
INTERESTING CHAPTERS IN SGRIPTURE HISTORY
AND BIBLE ILLUSTRATION, comprising the Literary
History, Unity, Science, Agriculture, and Natural History of the
Bible, &c. Illustrated and Enlarged.
Contents—Literary History of the Bible—The First entire Pro-
testant English Version of the Bible—The Unity of Holy Scripture
—The Science of the Scriptures—The Scriptural Objection to the
Science of Geology Considered—Ancient Religions—The Lost Tribes
Fame: Blackwood 61* Ca, Publishers,
—Petra, the Long-Lost Capital of Edonb—T hurch in the Cata-
combs—Illustrations of Scripture—The Agricui ire of the Bible—
The Ancient Cedars of Lebanon—The Serpent of the Bible—
Locusts—Camels—Dogs in Eastern Cities.
THE HELPING HAND: A Guide to the New Testament.
BY ADELAIDE ALEXANDER. Illustrated and Enlarged.
“ The entrance of Thy words giveth light, and giveth understand-
ing unto the simple.”
THE EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY IN THEIR
EXTERNAL DIVISION. Concisely and popularly set forth.
‘Ry CHARLEs P. McILVAINE, D.D. ridited by Dr. OLINTHUS
GREGORY. Eight Illustrations.
Contents—Introductory Observations—Authenticity and Integrity
of the New Testament—Credibility of the Gospel History—Argu-
went from Miracles—Argument from Prophecy—Divine Authority
of Christianity from its Propagation—Argument from its Fruits—-
Inspiration and Divine Authority of the Scriptures.

' 8. Lowell’: Court, Paternoster Row, London
12
.:\',b _ -
'‘ '\1‘$“§\

s
-
,
Q
l f
_

. 
. p .  ‘ l
-\ . n
I l a
. I no . 1 L -
\ . _  . . .\ .
 . n  > .  r \ s‘ .1 I
J n I
It a . . A‘ _
  ‘ 
n . Z ' \\ .. \
1 u
I u . ‘ .
_ . . ‘
. \ f > I \
_ _ .. y
. - .  . . .
. _ n 1
‘  ~
“I I \ n | 01- .
. _ 
._ .
_ . .
i _ ..
- ' ‘ I
v V 
.  .
 
Y 4 I. 4-. p
o \, t . n’. n
a '  \

.
 1_ \ 
 '7“ ma; “at-r32,“-
I
2
i
_
‘nu-51.11531 quiver'<14“? ' ‘ - r"
a._
