THE
'LIFE AND ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER:
•WHO LIVED BIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALONE IN AN
VNINHABITED ISLAND, ON THE COAST OT AMERICA)
NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE GREAT HIVES OROONOQUE.
WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS
ROUND THREE PARTS OF TEIE GLOBE.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
.^IrICHED WITH ELEGANT PLATES DESCRIPTIVE OT THE
SUBJECT.'
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR W. LANE, LEADENHALL-STREET,
MDCCXci'::'- '-'
THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRA.RY1
758721 A
ASTOR- LENOX ANO
TILDEN FOUNOATBNMl
R 1936 £.
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
o t
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
r I 'HAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions
1 in England, viz. That what is bred in the bone
win' not go out of the flesh, was never more verisied than
in the story of my lifb.—Anyone would think, that
after thirty-sive years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which sew men, if ever any, v/ent
through before; and after near seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the sulness of all things; grown old, and
when, if ever it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle lise, and to know which
was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
fay, after all this, any one would have thought, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account
of in my sirst setting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be sully evaporated, or at least condensed,
and I might at sixty-one years of age have been a little
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing lise
and fortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to seek.—If I had gained ten thou-
THE
6 ADVENTURES OF
sand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that 1 had was visibly increasing; for having no great
family, 1 could not spend the income of what I hadi
unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things [ had no notion of, or incli-
nation to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit
still, and sully enjsy what I had got, and see it increase
caily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical dis-
ftemper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I left there, sun in
ray head continually.—I dreamed of it all night, and.
my imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost,
in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily
'and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep ;.
in short, nothing could remove it out of mv mind.—It
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it.-
mate my conversation tiresome; for I could talk of no-
thing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to im-
pertinence; and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment fay, that
all tiie stir people make in the world .about ghosts and;
apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagination,
and the powersul operation of fancy in their minds ;-
that there is no such thing- as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like : That people's poring affec-
tionately upon the past conversation of their deceas'd
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them ;'
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing,and they really know nothing ofthe matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour, whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spectres,
or walking of people after they are dead, or whether
there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind,
more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and
wandering fancies.—But this I luiow, that my imagina-
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7
tion worked me up to such a height, and brought me Into
such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at
Biy old castle behind the trees; I saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors, whom I left
upon the island.—Nay, I fancied I talked with them, and
looked at them so steadily, tho' 1 was broad awake, as
at persons just before me; and this I did till I often
frightened myself with the images my fancy represented
to me.—One time, in my sleep, I had the villainy o.'
the three pirate sailors so lively related to me by tho
sirst Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set sire to the provisions
the yhad laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them;
things that I had never heard of, and yet they were all
of them true in fact; and it was so warm in my ima-
gination, and so realized to me, that to the hour I
saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or
woald be true; also how I reseated it, when the' Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three
to be hanged. — What there was really in all this shall
be seen in its place; for however I came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits
injected it, yet there was, I fay, very much of it true.
I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and
specisically true ; but the general part was so true, the
bale and villainous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
of the fact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I had been
much in the right, and should have been justisied both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: in this kind of temper
I had lived some years ; I had no enjoyment of my
lise, no pleasant. hours, no agreeable diversion, but
wha' had something or other of this in it; so that my
wise, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powersul impulse of Providence upon me,
A 4 * which
which had determined me to go thither again; and'that
she found nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged to a wise and children.—She told me, that it was
true, she could not think of parting with me; but as she
was assured, that if she was dead, it would be the sirst
thingl would do; so, as it seemed to her, that the thing
was determined above, she would not be the only ob-
struction; for, if I thought sit, and resolved to go
Here she iound me very intent upon her words, and that
I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a little disor-
dered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not
go on, and say out what she was going to fay. But I per-
ceived h^r heart was too sull, and some tears stood in
her eye's.—Speak out, my dear, fays I; are you willing
I should go? No, says the, very affectionately, I am far
from willing; but if you are resolved to go, fays she,
rather than I will be the only hindrance, I will go with
you; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,
laid she again, weeping, I won't leave you; for il it be
of heaven, you must do it, there is no resisting it—And
if heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also make
it mine to go with yon, or otherwise dispoie of me, that
I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wise, brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider what
I was doing—I corrected my wandering fancy, and be-
gan to argue with myself sedately, what business I had,
after- three score years, and after such a lise of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy
a manner, I say, what business had I to rusti into new
hazards, and put myself upon adventures, sit only for
youth and poverty to run into.
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage-
ments—that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
ti.en great with child of another; and that I had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of seek-
ing to increase it; that as to what my wise had said, of
its being an impulse from heaven, and that it should
be my duty to go, 1 had no notion of that; so after
many
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power
of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe
people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in
a word, I conquered it: composed myself with such argu-
ments as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present
condition surnished me plentisully with; and particular-
ly, as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert my-
self with other things, and to engage in some business
that might effectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; for I found the thing returned upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of moment immediately before me.
To this purpose 1 bought a little farm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I found was capable of great improvement, and that it
was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted
in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of
land; and particularly, being an inland county, I was
removed from conversing among ships, sailors, and
things relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my fa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon*
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriously to work,
became in one half year a mere country gentleman;
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, inclosing, planting,
&c. and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life
that nature was capable of directing, or that a man
always bred to misfortunes, was capable of being re-
treated to.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay,
was limited by no articles; I could pull up, or cut
down, as I pleased; what I planted was for myself;
and what I improved was for my family; and having
^thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the least discomfort in any part of my lise, as to this
world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed that
middle state of lise, which my father so earnestly re-
commended to me: a kind of heavenly lise, something
like what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a
country lise,
A 5 Free
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all- this selicity, one blow from -
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me,
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on .
with an irresistible force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me.. This blow was
the loss of my wise.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my
wise, to give a character of her particular virtues, and
make my court to the sex by the slattery of a suneral
sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
afsairs, the centre of all my enterprises; the engine,
that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass
I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous projectr
that fluttered in my head, as above; and did more to
guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, %
sather's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own
reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her intreaties, and to
the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by
the loss of her.,
When she was gone, the world looked aukwardlyv
round me; I- was as much a stranger in it, in my--
thoughts, as I was in the Brasils, when I sirst went on- -
shore there; aad as much alone, except as to the assist*
ance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither*
what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world busy-
round me, one part labouring for bread, and the other-
squandering it in vile excesses, or empty pleasures;'
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still-
fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur- .
seited, of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow-
and repentance; and the men of labour spent .their-
strength in daily firugglings for bread, to maintain the-
vitai strength they labours with-; so living in a. daily-.
-.' • sir-.
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live; as if daily bread were the only end os a
wearisome lise, and a wearisome lise the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the lise I lived in my king-
dom, the island ; where I susfered no more corn to grow,
because 1 did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause 1 had no more use for them: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce
the savor to be looked upon in 20 years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search surther than human
enjoyments for a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end of lise,
superior to all'these things, which was either to be pos-
sessed, or at least hoped for on this side the g»ave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run before the wind: my
thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign
adventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements
of my sarmland my garden, my cattle and my samily,
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear,
or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved
to leave off housekeeping, let my sarm, and- return to
London; and in a sew months after I did for
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as be*
fore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like- an idle person,
'of whom.it may. be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing' matter to the rest
of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing, which of all circumstances of lise was. the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an
active lise; and I would often say to . myself, a state of
idleness is the very dregs of lise; and indeed I thought I 1
was much more suitably employed, when I was. 26 days
making a deal- board.'
It was, now the beginning of the year 1693/when
my nephew^ -whoj;i, as I have observed ..before, J had
A.6 -> brought
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of
a ship, was come home- from a short voyage to Bilboa,
being the sirst he had made; he came to me, and told
me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East-
Indies and to China, as private traders: And now, uncle,
says, he, if you will go to lea with me, I'll engage to land,
you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to
touch at the Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a suture
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than
the concurrence of second .causes with the ideas of
things, which we sorm in our minds, persectly reiei ved,
snd not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of
what he h«§d in his thoughts to say; when thai very
morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
consusion of thought, and revolving every part of my
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my dd sea-
captain, and lo, if it was rational and practicable, I
would go and lee the island again, and see what was be-
come os my people there. I had pleased myself also with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession,
and I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in
comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project'of
carrying me thither, in his way to the East-Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at
him, What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky er-
rand? My nephew startled, as if he had been frighted
at sirst; but perceiving I was not much displeased with
the proposal, he recovered himself: I hope it may not be
an unlucky proposal, sir, says he; I dare say you would
be pleased to see your new colony there, where you once
reigned with more selicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my tem-
per, that is to say, with the prepossession I was under,
and of which I have said so much, that I told him in
few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would
£0
go with him: but I told him, I would not promise to go
any sarther than my own island. Why, Sir, says he, you
don't want to be left there again, I hope? Why, said I,
can you not take me up again in your return? He told
me it would not be possible to do so; that the merchants
wonld never allow him to come that way witli a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his way,
and might be three or sour: Besides, Sir, if I should mis-
carry, said he, and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on
board the ship,- which, being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of some
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island, and sinished, sit to go to sea in a sew
days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew, joined in so.fffectually with my in-
clinaiion, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wise being dead, 1 had nobody that concern-
ed themselves so much tor me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend the wi-
dow, who earneltly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard
of a long voyage; and, above all, my young children:
but it was all to no purpose, I had an irresistible desire
to go the voyage; and I told her, I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind for .the voyage, that it would be a kind of
resisting Providence, it I mould attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined
with me, not only in making provision for my voyage,
but also in settling my samily-affairs in my absence, and
providing tor the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that I was persectly easy and
satissied they would have justice done them, whatever
might besal me; and for their education, I lest it
wholly to my widow, with a sussicient maintenance to
herself for her care; all which she richly deserved: for
no
no mother could have taken more care in their edoca^
tkin, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came
home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning
of January, »694-5, and I, with my man Friday, went
on board in the Downs the 8th, having, besides that
floop which I mentioned above, a very considerable
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which is I did not sind in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
p.urpoied to place there, as inhabitants, or at least, to
set on work there upon my own account while I .staid,
and either to leave them there, or carry them forward,
as they should appear .willing, particularly I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a veryjiandy ingenious sellow,
who was a cooper by trade, but was ^lso a general me.
chanic, for he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a .
good pot-maker ; .he also made any thing that was-proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we called him .
our jack of all trades.
With these I carried a taylor, who had offered himself;
to go passenger to the-East- Indies with my nephew, but:
afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation, and
proved a most necessary handy sellow as could be desired, .
in many other businesses besides that of his trade ; for as
I .observed formerly, necessity arms- us for all employ-
ments.
My.cargo,- as near as I can recollect, for I have not
kept an account of particulars, consisted of a susficient
quantity of linen, and some thin English stuffs for clothing
the-Spaniards-that I expected to sind there, and enough 1
of them, as. by my calculation might comfortably supply
them for seven years ; if I remember right, the materials
which I carried for cloathing .them, with gloves, hats, .
shoes, stockings,- and all such things as they could -
want for wearing, amounted to above zool. including
some beds, bedding, and houshold stuff, particularly-.
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &Ci
besides near tool, more in iron-work, nails, - tool*
of.
of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every neces-
sary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and
susils, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of
shot of all sizes, three or . sour tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what
time, and what extremities, I was providing for, I car-
ried an hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, and
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts,
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two small.
qaarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to
leave behind, if there was oc<asion, that when they
came there, we might-build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies; and indeed at sirst I thought there
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had .
been used to meet with, and therefore shall have the less
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet some odd accidents, cross-winds, and bad weather
happened, on this sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz-, my sirst voyage to Guinea, -
in which I. might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst-designed, began to think the same ill
fate still attended me; and that I was born to be never
contented with my own shore, and yet to be always un- -
fortunate at sea.
Contrary winds sirst put us to-the northward* and:
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay windbound two and thirty days; but we had this
satissaction with the disaster, that provisions were here •
exceeding cheap, and in the utmost.plenty ; so that while. •
we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather
added to theny;. here also I took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put ashore in my island, but. we found occasion
jo dispose otherwise of them,.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had
a very fair gale of wind, for some days; as I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came into
the round house, and told us he saw a flam of sire, and
heard a gun sired; and while he was telling us of it, a
boy came in, and told as the boatswain heard another.
This made us all run out upon the quarter deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a sew minutes we
saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible sire at a distance; immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that
there could be no land that way, in which the sire
shewed itself, no, nos for 500 leagues, for it appeared
at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some
ship on sire at lea; and as by our hearing the noise
of guns just before, we concluded it could not be far
off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently sa-
tissied we should discover it, because the farther we sailed
the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
- hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light
for a while; in about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being fair for us, thpugh not much of it, and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern, that it was
a great ship on sire in the middle of the sea. I was
most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, in what condition
1 was in when taken up by the Portuguese captain; and
how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to the ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them; upon this I im-
mediately oraered that sive guns should be sired, one
soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them, that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat;
for though we could see the flame in the ship, yet they,
it be^ng night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and imme-
diately,
diately sank! This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting
sight, for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded,
must be either all destroyed, in the ship, or be in the ut-
most distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not
see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanthorns for, and kept
siring guns all the night long, letting them know by
this, that there was a ship not sar off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help of our perspective-glasses;
and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water; we perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our
ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a waft imt. as a siena? for them
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. In a little more than half an hour we
came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty four men, women and children;
for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant
ship oT 300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in
the river of - Canada. - The master gave us a long ac-
count of the distress of his ship, how the sire began in the
steerage by the negligence of the steersman, but, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the
sirst sire had gotten into some part of the ship, so difsicult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the cieling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large;
being their long boat, and a great shallop, besides a
small skiff, which was of no great service to them,
other than to get some fresh water and provisions into
her
her, after .they had secured themselves from the sire
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats, at that distance from any land; only,-
as they said well, that they were escaped from the sire,
and had a possibility that some ship might happen to-
be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails,-
oars, and a compass, and were preparing to make the
best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing
prettysair; for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, asr with sparing it
so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about i 2 days, in which, if they had no bad weather,
and no contrary winds, the captain said, he hoped he
might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some sish to sustain them till they might go
on shore. But there were so many chances against
them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and
founder them, rains and cold to benumb and perish
their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them,- that it must have been next to miraculous if they
had elcaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being
hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain, with tears
in his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprised with
the joy of hearing a gun sire, and after that four more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at sirst
seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I designed it mould,
viz. that there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took
down their masts and sails, and the found * coming from
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they sired
three musquets, one a considerable while after another;
but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to
be sired all the rest of the night; this set them to
work with their oars to keep their boats a-head, at
kail that we might the sooner come up with them;
and
»nd M last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures,-
the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these
poor delivered people run into, to express the joy of their
souls, at so unexpected a deliverance;- grief and sear are
easily described ; sighs, tears, groans, and a very sew mo-
tions of head and hands, making up the sum of its variety:
but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagancies in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themlelves, as if they had been in the
greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark raving and down-
right lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their seet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, several singing, some laughing, more crying,
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word, others siclc
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint, and
a-tew were eroding tnemieive» and giving Gcd thanks'
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thanksul afterward; but the passion was too
strong for them at sirst, and they were not able to master-
it; tney were thrown into ecstacies and a kind of frenzy,
and so there were but a very sew who were composed and
serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
from the particular circumstance of the nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whole temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations- I
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen- before came up to it: the ec-
stacies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he
found his father- in the boat, came the nea:tst to it; and
the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the two villains that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I law in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is farther observable, that these extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the va-
riety would appear in a short succession of moments,
in
in one and the same person. A man that we saw this
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like
an antick, and the next moment tearing his hair, or
pulling his cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under
his seet like a madman; a sew minutes after that, we
should have him all in tears, then sick, then swooning;
and had not immediate help been had, would in a sew
moments more, have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty but with the greatest
part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let above thirty of them blood.
Tslere were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot 6a board our ship, and
saw himself sase, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance i not tl» , of life could be percetvea
in him; our lurgeon immediately applied proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
benered he was not dead,; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having sirst chased and rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as ranch as possible; upon this the
blood, which only dropped at sirst, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his eyes,
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke;
grew better, and, in a little time, quite well; after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
sectly well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself.
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had fainted, and told him, the
priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had began to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind,
and this put him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits
whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and severish, and the man was
as sit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and pat
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon
him, and he waked next morning perfectly composed
and well.
The yoonger priest behaved himself ith preat com-
mand of his passion, and was really an example of a
serious well governed mind; at his sirst coming on board
the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating
himself in thanksulness for his deliverance, in which I
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really think-
ing he had been in a swoon ; - but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks
also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only
feft him, but kept others from interrupting him also;
he continued in that posture about three minutes, or
a little more, after I left him; then came to me, as he
feid he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, given him, and so many miserable
creatures their lives. I told him, 1 had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: but I added,
that it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he
to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to
make us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his
creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his coun-
try-folks, laboured to compose them; persuaded, in-
treated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost
to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with some he had success, though others were, for a
time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this tq writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whose hands it may fall,
in the gmding themselves in all the extravagancies of
their passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what will not the extravagancies of anger, rage, and
a provoked mind, carry us to? And indeed, here I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding strict watch over our pas-
sions
82 A D V E N TORE SOP
sions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction,
-as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagancies
among our new guests for the sirll day; but when they
had been refreshed, lodgings provided for them as well as
our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most ot them did, being fatigued and frightened, they
were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of' good manners, or civil acknowledgments
for the kindneis shewn them was wanting; the French,
tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that way.
The captain, and one of the priests, came to me the
next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my ne-
phew, the commander, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and sirst they told us, that, as
we had saved their Ji.es, so all they had was little
enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the
flames; and if we would accept it, they were ordered to
make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they
might get a passage to Prance.
My nephew was for accepting their money at sirst
word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards;
.but I over-ruled him in that part, for I knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all 1 had for my -deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brasils, as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases, a much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was
our duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them, but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
but that we took them up to serve them not to plunder
them;
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of
the sire, and then set them on shore, and leave them;
that this would be sirst to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and therefore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them ; as to setting
them on shore, I told them indeed, that was an exceed-
ing great difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East-Indies, and though we were driven out ot our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
was directed by heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party * to purlue his voyage by the way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was, to
put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West-Indies, and get them
passage, if possible, to England or France.
_ The sirst part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East-
Indies; they then intreated me, that seeing I was driven
& far to the westward before 1 met with them, I would
a' least keep on the fame course to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ftip or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
Part; and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole company to the
East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity to
the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voy-
age by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unsoreseen acci-
dent made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no
one could fay we were to blame; for the laws of God
and nature would have forbid, that we should resuse
to take up two boats sull of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing as well re-
specting
specting ourselves, as. the poor people, obliged us to see
them on shore somewhere or other, for thefr deliver-
ance; so 1 consented that we would carry them to New- ,
foundland, if wind and weather would permit; and, if
not, that I would carry them to Martinico in the West-
Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good, and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but theyihad been
so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no paslengers for sear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to
France, if they could get provision to victual themselves
with: when, I fay, all the French went on shore, I
should remember, that the young priest I spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Coromandel: 1 readily agreed to that, for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason,
as will appear afterwards; also sour of the seamen
entered themselves in our ship, and proved very usesul
sellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West--
.Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about 20 days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N,
and the i9th day of March, i694-5, when we espied
a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon perceived
it was a large vesiel, and that she bore up to us; but
could not at sirst know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
top-mast fore-mast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fires a gun as a signal of distress ; the weather was pretty
good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we soon came
to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
Jfarbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at Bar-
badoes, a sew days before she was ready to fail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate
were both gone on shore; so that beside the terror of the
storm, they were but in an indifserent case for good
artists to bring the ship home: they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and in which they lost their masts, as above ; they told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the south-east, by a
stiong gale of wind at N. N. W. the same that blew
now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a
main-course, and a kind of square sail upon a jury fore-
mast, which they had set up, they could not lie nearthe
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the
Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone: their bread and flesh was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days : the only relief they had, was,
their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured, and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to fail, unhappily came on board
the evening before the hurricane began : and, having n»
provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe.
vol. ii, B IhaJ
I had perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity
had not led me, the weather being fair, and the wind
abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, whe
upon this occasion commanded the (hip, had been on
board our ship: and he told me indeed, that they had
three passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a
deplorable condition; nay, fays he, I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
days: and I was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for I.had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relief we could spare; and indeed I had so far over-ruled
things with my nephew, that I would have victualled
*6 ADVENTURES OT
part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves;
but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were
afraid of eating too much, even of that little we gave them;
the mate or commander brought six men with him in his
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were so weak, they could hardly sit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat 'before
kim immediately, and he had not eaten three mouthsuls
before he began to be sick, and out of order; so he stopt
awhile, and our Surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said wojld be to him both food
andphyiick; and aster he had taken it, he grew better:
in the mean time, I forgot not the men; I order'd
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather
devoured than eat it; they were so exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no com-
mand of themselves; and two of them eat with so much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next morning.
The sight of these peoples distress was very moving
to me, and brought to mind what I had a terrible pros-
pect of at my sirst comini; on shore in my island, where
I had not the least mouthsul of food, or any hopes of
procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had
»f being made the food of other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin (viz) the mother, her
son, and the maid servant, whom he had heard nothing
of for two or three days; and whom he seemed to .con-
fess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all; and that therefore they
must be perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
floor or desk of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men to refresh them, so I alfa
forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and with-
my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
•and four orsive pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-roam, to prevent the mena
taking it to eat raw or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little
at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very-
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and see in what condition the poor passen-
gers were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them and
givethem what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them e;radually.
I was not satissied with this;- but, as I said above,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery," which I
knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took the
captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their boat.
1 found the poor men on board almost in a tumult
to get the victuals out of theboiler beforeit was ready:
but my mate observed his order, and kept a good
guard' at the cook-room door; and the man he
B 2 places
placed there, after using all possible persuasion so nave
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused
lbme biscuit -cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave them every one one, to stay their
stomachs, and told them it was for their own sasety that
he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and officers with me, and with
good words, and some threats also of giving them no
more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and tore the meat out of the furnace;
for words indeed arc of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however we pacisied them', and sed them gradu-
ally and cautioufly for the sirst time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last silled their bellies, and the
men did well enough.
But the misery of the poop passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, sirst,
the mip's company had so little for themselves, it was
but too true, that they had at sirst kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had no
food at all, and for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the sirst mate reported, was
a woman of good sense, and good breeding, had spared
all soe could get so affectionately for her son, that at last
she entirely sunk unde. it.' and when the mate of our
ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her
back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her shoul-
dJrt, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her,- and with
a spoon put some broth into her mouth; me opened her
lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet
she understood what he said, and made signs to him, in-
timating, that it was too late for her; but pointed to
her child,- as if she would have said, they should take
care of him.
However the mate, who was exceedingly moved with
the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her
mouth; and, as he said, got two or three spoonsuls down,
though
though I question whether he could be sure oflt or not;
but it was too late-, and shedied the fame night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his moft
affectionate mother's lise, was not so far gone; yet he lay
;n a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him; he had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him some time after, but two or
three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; slue lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that
had fallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for
lise; her limbs were distorted, one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped it
so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go; her
ether arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both to-
gether, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in>
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrisied with the thoughts of death, but, as the men:
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what todo.with this poor girl; for when
our surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge
and experience, and with great application recovered her
as to lise, 'he had' her upon his hand as to her senses, for
file was little less than distracted for a considerable time
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
fired to consider, that visits at sea are not like a jour-
Key into the country, where sometimes people stay a
week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
fail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts; how-
ever, as their captain begged of ui to help him to set up
B 3 amain*
a main top-mast, and a kind of top-mast to his-jury-
fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or
four days, anc) then having given him sive barrels of beef
suad pork, two hogshcads of biscuit, and a proportion of
peas, flour, and what other things we could spate; and
taking three casks of sugar and some rum, and some
pieces of eight of them for satissaction, we left them,
'taking on board with us, at their own earnest regnest,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
xlejected with the loss of his mother, and as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months before at Bar-
tadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out of the ship; for he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed so they had, that
is to say, passively; fox they might have spared a smalt
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no jus-
tice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
ef no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put-
him perhaps- in as bad circumstances almost, as we
found them in; thai is to say, starving in the world.
He said he matered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among:
that the Captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing os my nephew) had saved his life, and
he was sure would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to hersels, she would be very thank-
ful for it, let us carry them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them (both on boara with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could
not be removed, or come at; and as-th« youth had a
bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a,
writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bris-
tol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, so whom the
vouth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which
1 wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
deceased
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could.never learn, that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled
a condition, and so far from any land,- that I am of opi-
nion, the sirst storm she met with afterwards, she might
founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage
in her hold when 1 met-with her.
I was now in the latitude of iodeg. 31 min. andhad:
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, tho' at
sirst the winds had been contrary. I fliall trouble no--
body with the little incidents of winds, weather, cur-
rents, &c- on the rest of our voya e; but shortening
my story for the fake of what is to follow, shall observe
that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the i0th
of April, i695. It was with no small difficulty that I
found the place: for as I came to it, and went from it
before, on the south and east side of the island, as com-
ing from the Brazils, so now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor
any land mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or
knew whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands inthe mouth of the great riverOroonoque
but none for my purpose; only this- I learned by my
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw,
from the island I lived ii^ was really no continent, but
a long island, or rather a ridge of islands reaching from
one to the other side of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other Barbarians of the fame kind, who
inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of the islands to no purpose y
some 1 found were inhabited, and some were not. On'
one of them 1 found some Spaniards, and thoughtthey
had lived there ; but, speaking with thern^ found they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch some pearl-muscles
if they could 5 but they belonged to the isle de Trini-
dad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of 10 and:
ti degrees.
B 4 Thus
/ Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had sound a convenient boat, and therefore
kept her with their very good will, at length I came fair
en the south-side of my island, and I presently knew the
very countenance of the place; so I brought the ship
fose to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where
was my old habitation.
As scon as I saw the place, I called for Friday and
asked him, if he knew where he was? He looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried; O yes, O
there, Oyes, Othere, pointing to our old habitation, and
fella dancing and capering like a mad sellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim ashore to the place.
Well, Friday, said 1, do you think we mill sind any
body here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
your father? The sellow stood mute as a stock a good
while; but when I named his father, the poor afsectionate
creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentisully. What is the matter Fri-
day, said I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him
more, no ever more see again. Why so, said I Friday?
How do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he
long ago die; long ago he much old man. Well, well
said I, Friday, you don't know: but shall we see any one
else then: the scllow, it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
tho' we lay half a league off, he cries out Me see! me
see! yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and
there; I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass; which was, I suppose, because I could
not hit the place; for the sellow was right, as I found
vpon enquiry the next day, and there were sive or lix
men Itogether stood to^look at the ship, not knowing
what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused
the English ancient to be spread, and sired three guns,
to give them notice we were friends; and about half
a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoak rise
from the side of the creek; so I immediately ordered
a boat
a boat out, taking Friday with me; and, hanging out 3
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore;
taking with me the young frier I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the
manner*'of it, and every particular, both of myself, and
those that I left there, and who was on that account
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about
sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any new
guest there which we did not know-ot; but we had no
need'of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high-
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the sirst
man I sixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, and whom I knew by his face persectly well;
as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered
no body to go onshore at sirst but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat, for the afsectionate crea-
ture had spyed his father at a distance,* good way off of
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him, and
if they had not let him go on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow.
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite os the
sirmest resolution, to have seen the sirst transports of this
poor sellow's joy, when he came to his father; hoar he
embraced him, kisled him, streaked his face, took him up.
in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would
look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour toge-
ther; then lay down upon the ground, and streaked his
legs, and kilted them, and then got up again, and stared
at him;' one would have thought the sellow bewitched:
hut it would have made a dog laugh to see how the next
day his passion ran out another way: in the morning he
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father
several hours, always leading him by the hand, as if
he had been a lady; and every now and then would
come to setch something or other for him to the boat
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, er some
thing or other that was good.. In the afternoon his fro-
lics run another vrav, for then he would set the old
man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and

3+
ADVENTURES OF
made a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all
the while he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travel's, and of
what had happened t« him abroad, to divert him. In
short, if the fame silial affection was to be found in chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts of the world, one
would be tempted to fay, there hardly would have been
any need of the sifth commandment.
But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It
would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The sirst
Spaniard, whom as I faid,I knew very well, was he whose
lise I saved; he came towards the boat, attended by one
more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did not only
not know me at sirst, bnt he had no thoughts no notion,
ofits being me that was come, till I spoke to him: Seig-
nior, said I in Portuguese, do you not know me? At which
he spoke not a word; but giving his musquet to the man
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and faying
something in Spanish, that I did not persectly hear,came
forward,and embraced me,telling me he was inexcusable,
not to know that face again, that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven, sent to save his lise: he said a-
bundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spa-
niard always knows how; and then beckoning to the
person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me, if I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
house again, and where I sliould'see there had been but
mean improvements ; so I walked alon^ with him; but
alas ! I could no more sind the place again, than if I had
never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to
one another, in ten years time they were grown so big,
that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings and blind ways, as they themselves only who
made them could sind.
I asked them, what put them upon all these fortisica-
tions f He told me, I would fay there was need enough
•f it, when they had given an account how they had
passed their time since their arriving in the island, espe-
cially after they had the misfortune to sind, that I was
gone:

g««c: he told me he could not have but some satisfac-
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
in a good ship, and to. my satisfaction ; and that he had
oftentimesa strom; peitiafion, that one time or other he
should see me again: but nothing that ever bescl him
in his lise, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to him
at sirst, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found-1 was not there.
As to the thiee Barbarians (so he called them) that
were left behind, and of whom he said he had a long
story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
- much better among the savages, only that their number
was so small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and
with that he crossed himself upon the breast. But, Sir,
fays he, I hope you will not be displeased, when I shall
tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our
own preservation,.to disarm them, and making them our
subjects, who wouldnot be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers. I answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and no-
thing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not come back, that I might have put them in •
possession of every thing sirst, and left the other in a state
of subjection, as they deserved : but if they had reduced-
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from
sinding any fault with it; for I knew they were a parcel
of .refractory ungovernable villains, and were sit for any
manner of mischief.
"While I was saying this, came the man whom he had..
sent back, and with him eleven men more: in tl;p.
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what na-
tion they were of; but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, Sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you ; and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, - he let them know who I was ; upon which
they all came up one by one, not -as if they had been
sailors, and ordinary sellows, and I the like, but really,
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I
a monarch, or a great conqueror: their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet:
B.6. mixed
mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very weH
fcecame them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to retunstWem in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the former partofmyrelatioa
will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given,
that I .cannot but commit them with great delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in
the sirst person, which will put me to the expence of
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's
and I told Kim's, and the like; but 1 shall collect the
facts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my
memory from what Aey related to me, and from what
I met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I left
the island, and which the persons were in, of whom I
am to speak. At sirst it is necessary to repeat, that I had
sent away Friday's father and the Spaniards, the two
whose lives I had rescued from the savages; I fay, I
had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as 1
then thought it, to setch over the Spaniard's companions
whom he had left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he Imd been in; and in or-
der to succour them for the present, and that, if possible
we might together sind some way for our deliverance af-
terward.
When 1 sent them away, I had no visible appearance
cf, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance,
any more than I had twenty years before; much less had
I any foreknowledge of what after happened, I mean of
an English ship coming on shore there to setch them off,
and it could not but be a very great surprise to them,
when they came back, not only to sind that I was gone,
but to sind three strangers left on the spot, possessed of
all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise
have been their own.
The
The sirst: thing, however which I enquired into,
that I might begin where I left osf, was ot their own
part: and I desired he would give me a particular ac-
count of his voyage back to his countrymea with the
boat, when I sent him to setch them over. He told
me there was little variety in that part; for nothing re-
markable happened to them on the way, they having
-very calm weather, and a smooth sea; for his coun-
trymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see ham: (it seems he wa3 the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain of the vessel they
had been shipwrecked in, having been dead some time:)
They were, he said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was sallen into the hands of
savages, who, they were satissied, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he
told them the story of the deliverance, and in what
manner he was surnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them: and their astonishment, they
said, was something like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the
story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but when
he mewed them the arms, the powder, the balL, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey
or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and imme-
diately prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two larae canoes or periagua's on pre-
tence of going out a sishing, or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning; it seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, or any
thing in the world, but what they had on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get osf from the island; leaving three of the most
impudent, hardened, ungoverned disagreeable villains
behind
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with, to
the poor Spaniards great grief and disappointment,
you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when'
the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long
paper of directions, which I had left with them, con-
taining the particular methods which I took for managing
every part of my lise there, the way how I baked my
bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn,
how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
everything I did; all this being written down- they
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English
well enough; nor did they resuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very well
for some time, they gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very seciably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
method, and Friday's sather together, managed all their
afsairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing
but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satissied with this,
would the other but have let them alone ; which, how-
ever, they could not sind in their hearts to do lpng;
but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would net let others eat neither : the
differences, nevertheless, were at sirst but trivial, and
such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and indead, to com-
mon sense; and though it is true, the sirst relation of it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the accusers, yet when I came to examine the sellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I
must supply a desect in my former relation; and this
was, that I forgot to set down among the rest, that,
just as we were weighing'the anchor to set sail, there
hap-
happened a little quarrel on board our ship, whick I was
afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force,
and making two of the most refractory follows prison-
ers, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly danger-
ous words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired, that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had don: for the time past, should
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my Honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so,
when I caused the two men, who were in irons, to be
released and forgiven. .
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night, the wind also falling calm; next merning we
found, that our two men who had been laid in irons,
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wea-
pons; what powder or shot they had, we knew not;
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet
haled .up, and run away with her to their companions
in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues; but they could neither sind
them, nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their plantations, burnt all their houshold-stuff
and surniture, and left them to shift without it; but
having
having no order he let all alone, left every thing as
they found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, came
on board without them.
These two men made their number sive, but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that after they had been two or three days together,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they for a good while, be persuaded .
to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came sirst on shore, the business •
began to go forward; the Spaniards would have per-
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their-
two countrymen again, that, as they said, they might
be all one family ; but they would not hear of it : so
the two poor sellows lived by themselves, and sinding-
nothing but industry and application would make them
live comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the
Spaniards having given' them some corn for seed, and
especially some of the peas which I had left them, they
dug and planted, and inclosed, after the pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well; their sirst
crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was
but a little bit of land which they had dug up at sirst,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and sind them with bread and other eatables;
and one of the sellows, being the cook's mate of the
lhip, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations, as the rice, and the milk, and
such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, when'
the three unnatural rogues, their own . ountrymen too,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them
they
they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at sirst; and
asked them to come and sit down, and see what sine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they demanded: and one of them merrily told them,
if they were ground-landlords, he hoped, if they built
tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant:
them a long lease, and bid them go setch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and raging,
told them, they should see they were not in a jest; and go-
ing to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a sire to dress their victuals, he takes a sire-
brand, and clasps it to the outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on sire; and it would have been all burnt
down in a sew minutes, if one of the two had not run to
the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the sire out with
his seet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honefl man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended
his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their musquets; and the man that
was sirst struck at with the pole, knocked the sellow
down, who began the quarrel, with the stock of their
musquet, and that before the other two could come to
helphim; and then seeing the rest come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The other had sire-arms with them too; but one of
the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they ofsered to
move hand or foot, they were all dead men; and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him re-
solute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sufficient-
3y with the blow ; however, . they were much in the
wrong,
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did net
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them
an account how the rogues had treated them; for the
three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to croud this part with an account of the les-
ser part of their rogueries, such as treading down their
corn, shooting three young kids, and a slic-goat, which
the poor man had got to breed up tame for their store;
and,'in a word, plaguing them night and' day !n: this
manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to sight them all three the sirst time
they had a sair opportunity. In order to this theyre--
solved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my
old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together, at that time, intending to have a sair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see sair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their^
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.
Jt happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two
Englishmen, whom,for distinction, I call the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of.
the barbarous usage they had met w|th from thtir three
countrymen, and how theyhad ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn, that they had laboured so hard
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kids, which was. all they had provided for thtir
sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards,.did not assist them again, they should be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove
the three Englislimcn,. though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and asked them, how they could be so cruel,
they being harmless inoffensive sellows, and that they
wera putting themselves in a way to subsistby their la-
bour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to-
bring things to such persection as they had.
0»s.
43
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What
had they to do there? That they came on shore without
leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the
island; it was none of their ground. Why, fays the
Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they must not
starve. The Englishman replied, like a true ruff-hewn
tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'd, they should
not plant, nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, Seignior, says the Spaniard? Another of the
brutes returned, do! d—n them, they should be servants,
and work for them. But how can you expect that of
them? They are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants. The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given
it to them, and no man had any thing k> do there but
themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that he
would go and burn all their new huts; they should
build none upon their land.
Why, Seignior, says the Spaniard} by the fame rule
we must be your servants too. Ay, fays the bold dog,
and so you shall too, before we have done with you,
mixing two or three G—d d—mine's in the proper in-
tervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However, this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, come
Jack, let us go and have the other brush with them:
we will demolish their castle, I will warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions.
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity ofsered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.
Whither they went or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know;
but it seem they wandered about the country, part of
the night; and then lying down in the place which I
used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept
them-
themselves. The case was this: They had resolved tc
stay till midnight, and so take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, in-
tending to set sire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and as malice seldom sleeps very found, it
was very strange they would not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, tho' a much fairer one than that of
burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, be-
fore the bloody minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither and found the men gone,
Atkins, who j'-feems was the forwardell man, called our
to his comraftfs, ha! Jack, here's the nest; but d—n.
them, the tirds are flown: they mused awhile to think
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad
so soon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it; and with that they shook
hands, and swore to one another, that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
niens habitation; they did not set sire indeed to any
thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and pul-
led them so limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
they stood; they tore all their little collected houshold-
stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a
manner, that the poor men found, afterwards, some of
their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up the
inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered everything
as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done..
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them out
and had resolved to sight them where ever they had been
tho' they were but two to three: so that, had they met
there certainly would have been bloodsoed among them;
for they were all very stoat, resolute scllows,- to give
them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asun-
der,
46 L i- .-. t A .i
tter, than, they themselves eould do to meet; for, aa
*hcy had dogged one another, when the three were gone
-thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the
two went back to sind them, the three were come to the
old habitation again j we shall fee their disferent con-
duct presently. When the three came back, like surious
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they
had been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his sace,
says he to him, And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the same sauce, if you do not mend vour manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his sist, knock-
ed him down, as an ox is selled with a pole-ax, at which
one of the rogues insolent as the sirst, sired his pistol at
the Spaniard immediately; he misled his body indc»d,
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
than he really was, and that put him into sonic heat,
for before he acted all in a persect calm; but now re-
solving to go through with his work, he stooped atfd
took the sellow's musquet whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the man who had sired a*-v^
him ; when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, .
came out, and calling him not to shoot, they stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as .well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and giving the
Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards, considering the seud that was
Ijetween thew and the other two Englishmen, and that
it would be the best method they could take to keep
thej» from one another, told them they would do them
no
ho harm; and if they would live peaceably they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do
mischief with them to-their own countrymen, and had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reason
than to act reason; but being resused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
ing what they would do, though they had no sire arms:
but the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would lhoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them; and if they sell into their hands
alive, they would certainly be hanged. However this
was sar from cooling them; but away they went, swear-
ing and raging like suries of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been
at their plantation, and sinding it all demolished and de-
stroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough; they could scarce have room to
tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange enough to sind, that three
men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed, made light of their threat-
eniags: but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to sind
them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them,
that they were already disarmed: they could not consent,
that they (the two) should pursue them with sire-arms,
and perhaps kill them: but, said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us ; for, as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a sull satissaction for you; and
upon
upon this condition we hope you will promise to use no
violence with them, other than in your defence.
The two Englishmen yielded to this very aukwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not so
many of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is
great pity we should not be all good friends. At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some day* with the Spaniards; for their own
habitation was destroyed.
In about sive days after the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger, halv-
ing chiefly lived on.tnrtles eggs all that while, came
back to \he grove! and sinding my Spaniard who, as
1 have said, was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the side of the creek; they came up in a
very submissive humble maimw, and begged to be re-
ceived again into the samily. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted so unnaturally by
their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards) that they could n»t come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them, and dis-
course about it, andihey should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it;
for it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged he would send them out some bread
in the mean time ; which he did, and sent them at the
same time a large piece of goat's slesh, and a broiled
arrot; which they cat very heartily, for they were
ungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a> long debate had about them, their two country-
men charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned
before, and therefore could not deny now; upon the
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
«hem; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the three, while they were naked and unarmed,
so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows two huts, one to be of the same dimensions,
- . and
4*
ADVENTWRES OF
and the other larger than they were before; also to senc*
their ground again, where they had pulled up the sences,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state
as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could
not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only thatthese
three sellows could never be persuaded to work; I mean
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just a*
they pleased ; however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and gave them liber-
ty to ga abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesome as before; but however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which en-
dangered the sasety cf them all; they were obliged to
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preser-
vation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to fay, the Spaniard whose life I
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
persectly well in body, a9 he told me the story, only
found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran upon
men sighting, and killing one another, but was broad
awake, and could not by any means get any sleep; in
short, he lay a great while; but growing more and more
uneasy', he resolved to rise: as they lay, being so many
of them, upen goat-skins, laid thick upon such couches
and pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks
mocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but One; ib
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise,but
to. get up upon their seet, and perhaps put on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could see little or nothing; and besides, the trees
which I had planted, as in my former account is describ-
ed, and_ which were now grown tall, intercepted his
fight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was
a clear star-light night; and, hearing no noise, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not steep, nor could he compose himself to any
thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them waked,
and, calling, a sked who it was that was up? The go-
vernor told him, how it had been with him: Say you
so? says the other Spaniard; such things are not to be
flighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working, says he, near us; and presently he asked him*
Where are the Englishmen? They are all in their huts,
siys he, sase enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. Well, says the Spaniard, there is something in it,
I am persuaded from my own experience; I am satissied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive in-
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we know how to make use of it.
Come, says he, let us go out and look abroad; and i£
we sind nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of
justice of my proposing it.
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling it
up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
Vol. II. C were
were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light,
as of sire, a very little way off srom them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one, or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages land-
ing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
them making the least discovery of there being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any necessity
they came to know it, they selt it so effectually, that
they that got away, were scarce able to give any ac-
count of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible, nor
<iid ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one
else, except it were the three savages in our last en-
counter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mention-
ed, that I was afraid they fliould go home, and bring
more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those men, that so great a number came now together;
or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not it
seems understand; but wha'ever it was, it had been their
business, either to have concealed themselves, and not
have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen, that there were any inhabitants in the place;
but to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not a
man of them should h.ive eseaped, which could only
have been by getting in between them and their
boats; but this piesence of mind was wanting to them,
which was the ruin of their tranquility for a great
while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this sight; ran back imme-
diately, and raised their sellows, giving them an account
of the imminent danger they wereall in; and they again
as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close within where they were, but
that they must all run out to see how things stood
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough for some hours, to
view them by the light of three fires, they had made
at some diflancs from one another; what they were
doing,
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, sirst, the enemy were too many ; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight: and as they found, that the sellows ran straggling
all over the shore, they made no doubt, but, sirst or last,
some of them w«uld chop in upon their habitation, or
upon some other place, where they would see the tokens
of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also
for sear of their flock of goats, which would have been
little less than starving them, if they should have been
destroyed; so the sirst thing they resolved upon, was to
dispatch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if
need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one
body, and at a distance from their conoes, they resolv-
ed, if there had been and hundred of them, t» have at-
tacked them; but that could not be obtained, for,
they were some of them two miles osf from the other,
and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two disferent
nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
spresent circumstances; they resolved at last, while it
was dark, to send the old savage (Friday'sfather) out,
as a spy, to ler.rn, if possible, something concerning
them, as what they came for, and what they intended
to do, and the like; the eld man readily undertook
it, and, stripping himself, quite naked, as most of
the savages were, away he went: after he had been
gone an hour or two, he brings word, that he had been
among them undiscovered, that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war
with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the sight, they were by mere chance
landed in the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming- so by
chance to the same place, had spoiled all their mirth;
C 2 thaf
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were -
so near, that he believed they would sight again, as soon
as day-light began to appear ; but he did not perceive,
that they had no notion of any body's being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of
telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were
•engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather used all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he
told them, their sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pre-
vail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they
must run out and sec the ^battle: however, they used
some caution, viz. they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling, but went sarther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might se-
curely see them manage the sight, and, as they thought
not to be seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did
see them, as we shall sind hereafter.
The battle was very sierce, and if 1 might believe
the Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive,
-that some of them were men of great bravery, of invin-
cible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the sight.
The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
.could guess which party would be heaten; but then
that party which was nearest our people's habitation,
began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
some of them began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great .consternation, lest any of those that fled
should run into the grove, before their dwelling, for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved, that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever
came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall, and kill them; so that, if possible, not one should
return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
then
tfiem down with the stock of the musquet, not by (hoot-
ing them, for sear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three of the routed
army fled for lise, and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing wh:ther they
went, but running as into a thick wood for uielter ; the
scout they kept to- look abroad, gave notice of this
within, with this addition-, to our men's great satis-
faction, viz. That the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but, sending three
men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round,
and come in behind them, surprize and take them pri-
soners, which was done; the residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes, and got ost' to sea: the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a body together, gave two great
screaming shouts, which they supposed were by way
of triumph, and so the sight ended; and the same day,
about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched
to their canoes, and thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright wa3 over, and they
saw no savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and, viewing the sield of battle, they found
about two and thirty dead men upon the spot; some
were killed with great long arrows, several of which
were found sticking in their bodies ; but most of them
were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen of which they found in the sield of battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows; these
swords were great unweifdy things, and they must be
very strongmen that used them : most of those men that
were killed with them, had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may fay, or, as we call it in English, their brains
knocked out, and several of their arms 'and legs broken;
so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible rage and
sury; they found not one wounded man that was not
stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy till they
have quite killed them, or they carry all the wounded
men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
C3 Th!;
5+
ADVENTURES OF
"This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
Wh'le; the sight had silled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, especi-
ally up oil supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of thole creatures; who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle. And they prosessed to me, that the
thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to-be till they were dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nau'eated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and
filled their minds with unusual terror, that they were
not themielves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I
have been speaking of; and for a great while after
they were very tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough ; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country; but some time aster this, they scll all into
such simple measures a^ain as brought them into a great
tlcal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as 1 had observed;
nnd these three being hilly stout young sellows, they
made them servants, and taught them t;> work for them,
anf, as staves they did well enough; but they did not
take their measures with them as 1 did by my man Fri-
day, via. to begin with them upon the principle of hav-
ing saved their lives, and then instructed them in the ra-
tional principles of lisc, much left of religion, civilizing
«-id reducing them by kind usage, and affectionate ar-
guings 5 but, as they gave them their food every day,
so they gave them their work too,-and kept them sully
employed in drudgery enough; but, they failed in this
By it, that they never had them to assist them and sight
for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part; being all now good
friends (for common danger, as I said above, had
effectually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came
vnder their consideration was, whether seeing the
sivagea particularly haunted that side of the island.
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way of living, and manisestly to
their advantage, they should not rather remove their ha-
bitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
sasety, and especially for the security of their cattle and
corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived, that
they should not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear from
their governor again, meaning me: and if I should*send
any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on
that sxde, where, if they should sind the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and
we were gone, and so our supply would go away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they al-
tered one part of that resolution too, and relolved only
to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part ot
their corn there; and so, if one part was destroyed, the
other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they
used, which it w.is very well they did, viz. That they
never trusted these three savages, which they had taken
prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had
there; much less of the cave/here, which they kept in
case of necessity, as a sase retreat; and thither they car-
ried also the two barrels «vf powder, which I had left
them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had ..caresully co-
vered it sirst with a wall or fortisication, and then with
a grove of frees j so, seeing their sasety consisted en-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
fully convincid; they set to 'work t« cover and conceal
the place yet more effectually than before: to this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartment, they
went on in the same manner, and silled up the rest of
that whole space of ground, from the trees I had se:,
C 4 quite
quite down to the side of the creek, where, as 1 said* I
landed my floats, and even in the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabouts; these stakes also, being of a wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller than
thoscwhiohl had planted, and placed them sovery thick
and close, that when they had- been three or four years
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any conside-
rable way into the plantation: as for that part which I
had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh; and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a pali-
fndo a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate it, but with a little army, to cut it
all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the fame by all the
ground to the right hand, and to the left, and round
even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not so
much as for themselves to come out, but by the ladder
placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up,
and placed again from the sirst stage up to the top;
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it, could come at
them.
This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less
than what they afterwards sound occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has au-
thority of providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction of providence to set it to work; and, would
we listen caresully to the voice of it, I am sully persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives
are now by our own negligence subjected to. But this
by the way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after this
in persect retirement, and had no more visits from the
savages ; they had indeed, an alarm given them one
morning, which put them in a great consternation;
for, some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west tide, or rather end of the island,
which,
which, by the way, was that end where I never went, for
scar of being discovered they were surprized with seeing
above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough ; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night, to make observation : but they had the good luck
to be mistaken; for wherever the savages went, they
did not land at that time ort the island, but pursued
some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen ; one of which, a most turbulent sellow, being in.
a rage at one of the three slaves, which I mentioned
they had taken,- because the sellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seemed a little un-
tractable in his shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a
frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and sell upon-
the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the
sellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed
at his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he
thought he had [cut the poor creature's arm off, ran
to him, and intreatlng him not to murder the poor man,
clapt in between him and the savage, to prevent the
mischief.
• The sellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were work-
ing in the sield about the corn-land) knocked the brute
down: Another of the Englishmen, running at the
same time to help hi9 comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
man, and a third Englishman sell upon them. They had
nonet of them any sire-arm», or any other weapons butr
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made
at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both: This fray
set the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming
in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next
question was, what should be done with them? They had
C 5 been
been so often mutinous, and were so surious, so desperate,
and so idle withal, that they knew not what course to
take with them* for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man;
so that, in short, it was not sase to live with them.
The Spaniard who Was gpvernor,told them in so many
words, that if they had been his own countrymen, he
would have hanged them all; lor all laws, and all gover-
nors, were to preserve society; and those who were dan-
gerous to the society, ought to be expelled out of it; but,
as they were Englishmen, and that it was to thegencious
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said,
they deftred it might not be left to them; for, says he,
I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows; and
with that gives an account, how Will Atkins, one of
the three, had proposed to have all the sive Englishmen
join together, and murder all the Spaniards, when they-
were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to-
Will Atkins: How, Seignior Atkins, fays he, Will you
murder us all? What have you to fay to that? That
hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he
said it was true, and G— d—mn him they would do
it still before they had done with them. Well* but
Seignior Atkins, said the Spaniard, What have we
done to you, that you would kill us? And what would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to pre-
vent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you kill-
us ? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior
Atkins ? fays the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
mating a jest of it, that, had he not been held by_ three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carnage obliged them toconsiderse-
riousty what was tobedone. The two Englishmen and the
Sf aui«f d, who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion,
59
That they should hang one of the three for an example
to the rest; and that particularly it should be he that
had twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet,
and indeed there was some reason to believe he had done
it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition-
with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said; No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them; nay, he said, if he had
been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to fpeak.it should be, that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spa-
niard- that there was no gainsaying it; and, as mercisul
councils are most apt to prevail, where they are so ear-
nestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was
to be considered, what should be done to keep them from
the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and
all, that means were to be used for preserving the so-
ciety from danger: After a long debate it was agreed,
sirst. That they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, and
lest to live where they would, and how they could, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards
or English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to com-
mit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill or destroy any
of the corn ,planting, buildings, sences, or cattle belong-
ing to the society, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them wherever they could sind them.
The- governor, a man of great-humanity, musing up-
on the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn-
ing to the two honest Englishman, said, hold; you must
reflect, that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, and they must not starve; we must
therefore allow them provisions. So he caused to be ad-
ded, That they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by
which time they might be supposed to raise some of tin's
own; that they should have six milch-goats, four he«
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present sub~
listence, as for a store ; and that they should have tools
given them for their work in the sield; such as, six
hatchets, an axe, a saw; and the like: But they should
Lave none of these tools or provisions, unless they would
swear solemnly, thatthey would not hurt orinjure anyof
the Spaniards with them, or of their sellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away,
or to stay ; but, as there was no remedy, they went pre-
tending to go and chuse a place where they should set-
tle themselves, to plant, and live by themselves; and
some provisions were given, but no weapons.
About four or sive days after, they came again for
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked ourselves out
an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient
place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in
my sirst voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to surround
the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my sirst habitation-,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides.of it: so that by
planting others, it would be very easily covered from
the sight, unless narrowly searched for; they desired
some dry goat-fleins for beds and covering, which were
given them; and upon their giving their words, that
they would not disturb the rest, nor injure any of their
plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,
for sowing, and, inawerd, anything they wanted,
but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had got in their sirst harvest, though the quantity
was but small, the parcel of land they had planted be-
ing but little ; for indeed, having all their plantation to
form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards and pots, and such
things,
things, they were quite out of their element, anJ could
make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep-
their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much, so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn, and
other things from the rain ; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mina was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments ia it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation,
a new frolick took these rogues, which, together with
the former villainy they had committed, brought mis-
chief enough upon them, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony; the three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious lise they
led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the Continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them do the laborious part of the
work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone
no sarther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing
but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the
event ; and, if I may give my opinion, they seemed to
be under a blast from heaven for; if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we re-
concile the events of things with divine justice ? It w.is
certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mu-
tiny and piracy, that brought them to the state they
were in; ancTj' as they shewed not the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding
a poor ilave, because he did not, or perhaps could not
understand to do what he was directed ; and to wound
him in such a manner, as no queiHon, made him a
cripple all his lise; and in a place where no surgeon
or medicine could be had for his cure; and, what was
still worse, the murderous intent; or, to do justice to
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure
it was, as was afterwards the formed design they all
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story: The
three sellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and, in very nimble terms- desired to be admitted to
speak- with them: the Spaniards very readily heard
what they had to say, which was this: that they were
tired of living in the manner they did; that they were
not handy enough to make the necessaries the? wanted';
and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to .
take one of the canoes which they came over in, and
give them arms and ammunition, proportioned for their
desence, they would go over to the main, and seck their
fortune, and. so deliver them from the trouble of sup-
plying them with any other provision?.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them, they had
suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that
they would be starved or murdered ^ and bade them
consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved;
if they staid here, for they could not work, and wouM
not work : and they could but be starved abroad; and
and~if they were murdered, theie was an end of them,
they had no wives or children- to cry after them; arrd,
in short, insisted importunately upon their demand, de-
claring that they would go,. whether they would give
them any arms or no..
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that
if they were resolved to go, they should not go like naked
men, - and be in no condition to desend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare their sire arms, having
not enough for themselves.yet they- would let them have
two musquets, -a pistol, and a cutlace, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought sufsicient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, and given
them as much goat's siefli as they could eat while it was
sweet
Tweet, and a great basket-sull of dried grapes, a pot sull
of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they bold-
ly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the se», where
it was at least forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried i5 or 20 men; and therefore was rather
too big for them to manage; but as they had a fair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough: they had made a mast of a long pole, and a
fail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed
or laced together; and away they went merrily enough;
the Spaniards tailed after ttrem, Bon Veajo; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often fay to one another, and
the two honest Englishmen who lemained behind, how
quiet and comfortably they lived, now those three
turbulent sellows were gone ; as for their ever coming
again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts,
could be imagined; when behold, after 22 days ab-
sence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his,
planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards
him at a distance, twa of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched,
and became frighted and amazed to the governor Spa-
niard, and tells them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell
who: the Spaniard pausing a while, says to him, how
do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are savages
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishmen, they aremen
in cloathes, with arms: Nay then, fays the Spaniard,
why arc you concerned? If they are not savages, they
must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon
earth, but will do us good rather than harm.
. While they were debating thus, came the three Eng-
lishmen, and, standing without the wood, which was
new planted, hallooed to them; they presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another
question, viz. What could be the matter, and what made
them come back again.
It was not long besore they brought the men in; and
enquiring where they had bee i, and what they had been
doing 3
doing? They gave them a foil account of their voyagev-
in a rew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, sinding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to
sight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to
the northward 6 or 7 hours, till they C3me to a great
opening, by which they perceived that the land they
law from our island was not the main, but an island;
that entering- that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand north, and several more west;
and, being iesolved to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the islands which lay well, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots, and
some dried sish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women, as well as the merr, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to ear, and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here lour days, and enquired* as
well as they could of them by signs, what nations were
this way, and that way; and were told of several
sierce and terrible people, that lived almost every way;
who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said that they never
eat men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then they owned, that they made a great
seast, and eat tiieir prisoners.
TheEnglishmen enquired, when they had a seast of that
kind ; and they told them, two moons ago, pointing -
to the moon, and then to two singers; and that their-
great king had 200 prisoners now, which he had taken
in his war; and they were seeding them to make them
fat for the next seast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous to see thole prisoners; but the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of .
them, to carry away for their own eating. So they
beekoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun,
and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at fun rising, they would bring some
for them; and accordingly, the next morning, they
brought down sive women, and eleven men; and gave
them to the Englishmen to carry with them on their
voyage.
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at home,
theirstomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do; to resuse the prisoners, would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that offered them;
and what to do with them they knew not; however,
upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and,
in return, they gave the savages that brought them one
of their hatchets, an old key, a knise, and six or seven
of their bullets, which, though they did not understand,
they seemed extremely pleased with; and then, tying
the poor creatures hands behind them, they (thepeople)
dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men:
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited
the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respects
and thanks that could well pass between people, where
on one side, they understood not one word they could
fay, they put off with their boat, and came back to-
wards the sirst island, where, when they arrived, they
set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many of them for their occasion.
Ib their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prisoners, but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they could
fay to them, or give them, or do for them, but was look-
ed upon as going about to murder them; they sirst of
all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at
that, especially the women, as if they had just selt the
knise at their throats ; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the fame
thing; then they concluded it was for sear they should
sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill : if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was fat-
test and sittest to kill sirst; nay, after they had brought
them
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make
a dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them, where their new samily was. And being
told that they had brought them on shore, and put them
into one of their huts, and wers come to beg some
victuals for them; they (theSpaniards) and the other
two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony resol-
ved to go all down to the place, and see them, and did
so, and Friday's sather with them..
When they came into the hut,there they sat all bound?
for when they had brought them on shore, they bound
their hands, that they might not take the boat and
make their escape; there, I say,, they sat, all of them
stark-naked: sirst, there were three men, lusty comely
fellows, well shaped, strait and sair limbs, about 30 or
years of age, aad sive women, whereof two might
be from 30 to 40, two more not above 24 or 25, and the
sifth, a tall comely maiden, about 16 or 17 s the wo-
men were well favouredagreeable persons, both in shape
and seatures, only tawny; and two of them, had they
been persect white, would have passed for handsome wo-
men, even in Londonitselsyhaving very pleasant agreea-
ble countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, espe-
cially when they came afterwards to be cloathed,- and
dressed as they called it, tho' that dress was very indif-
ferent, it must be consessed of which hereafter.
The sight, you- may be sure, was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men of the best behaviour, of the most calm, se-
date tempers, and persect good humour that ever I met
with; and in particular, of the most modesty, as will
presently appear : 1 say, the sight was very uncouth, to
see three naked- men, and sive naked women, all toge-
ther bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
r rh*fc human nature could be supposed to,be, viz. to be
expecting every moment to be dragged out,- and have
their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
. a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The sirst thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Eriday'i
Friday's father, to go in, and see sirst if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their speech:
as soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them, neither could any of
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one of the women. ,
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, that the men into whoso hands they
were fallen were Christians, thatth.y abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed ; as soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a joy, and by such aukward and several
ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in
the next place, to aflt them if they were willing to be
servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away, to save their lives? At which they all sell a
dancing; and presently one sell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their
shoulders, to intimate, that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women
among them would presently be attended with some
inconveniency, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, asked the three men, what they intended to
do with these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants, or as women. One of the
Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said,
I am not going to restrain you from it; you are your own
masters as to that: but this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these women, as
a woman, or wise, he shall take but one; and that
having taken one, none 'else should touch her ; for tho'
we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable,
that while you stay here, the woman any of you takes,
should be maintained by the man that takes her, an4
should be his wise; I mean, seys he, while he continues
here ; and that none else sliould have any thing to do
with her. All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty. The <
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, if tfiey de-
signed to take any of them? But every one answered,.
no: some of them said they had wive* in- Spain, and*
the others did not like women that were notChristians;
and altogether declared, that they would not touchone-
of them; which was an instance of such virtue, as I
have not met with in all my travels: on the other
hand, to be short, the sive Englishmen took them every
one a wise ; that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they
set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's sather lived in my old habitation, which they bad*
enlarged exceedingly within ; the three servants, which
they had fttken in the late battle of the savages, lived'
with them; and these carried on the main part of the
colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found neces-
sity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how sive such re-
fractory ill-matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the -
same woman, especially seeing two or three of them were-
without comparison, more agreeable than the others i
but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrel-
ling among themselves; for they set the sive women by
themselves in one of their huts, -and they went all into
the other hut, and drew lots among them who should
chuse sirst. . -
He that drew to chuse sirst, went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he
that chose sirst,took her that was reckoned the homeliest,
and the oldest of the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it;
but the sellow considered better than any of them, that.
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and she proved
the best wise in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row
thus, and setched out one by one, the terrors of their;
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed, that they were now going to be devouredS ac-
cordingly, when the English- sailor came in and'setched
out
tou* one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered- till they setched the old man,
-Friday's father, who instantly let them know, that the
sive men who had setch'd them out one by one, had
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
When they had done this, and the fright the women
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and the
Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a sew hours,
they had built them every one a new hut or tent for
their lodging apart: for those they had already, were
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
The three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of
the island, so that they continued separate as before:
and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as
•I might fay, three towns were began to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that as it of-
ten happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's
providences are in such a disposition of things, I cannot
fay)' the two honest sellows had the two worst wives:
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit for nothing, and neither seemed bom
to do themselves good, or any one else, had three cle-
ver, diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that
the two sirst were ill wives as to their temper or hu-
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives;
hut my meaning is, they were not alike capable, inge-
nious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace of a flothsul, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management of the seve-
ral little colonies; the two men had so far outgone the
three, that there was no comparison: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they
wanted; aud the reason was, because, according to mv
rule, nature dictated, and that it was to no purpose to sov»
more corn than they wanted; but the difference of the
cultivation, of the planting, of the sences, and indeed-
every thing else, was easy to be seen at sirst view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation quite demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shewn
in its place; yet they had restored all again, and every
thing was floui iHiing and thriving about them; they hail
grapes planted in order, any managed like a vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen any thing of that
kind; and by their good ordering their vines, their
grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thickest pairs
of the woods, where, though there was not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief
which followed happened, they secured their wives and
children, so as thev could never be found : they having
by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood,
which, as I said, grew so easily, made a grove impassa-
ble, except in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part; and then went in by ways of their
•wn leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as 1 justly call them, tho*
they were much civilized by their new settlement, com-
pared to what they were before, and were not so quar-
relsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of
the certain companions of a profligate mind never left
them, and that was their idleness; it is true,'they
planted corn, and made sences; but Solomon's words
were never better veresied than in them; 'Iwent by the
vineyard of the slothful, and it was overgrown with
thorn;' for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds; the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten
in, and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a
dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable-door after the
steed was stolen; whereas, when they looked on the
colony
r
iColony of the other two, there was the very face of in-
dustry and success upon all they did; there was not a
weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of
their hedges: and they, on the other hand, verisied So-
lomon's words in another place: * The diligent hand
«maketh rich ;* for every thing grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had more
tame cattle than the other, more utenlils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were- very handy and
cleanly within doors ; and, having learned the English
ways of dressing and cooking from one of the other En-
glishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board
the ship,they dressed their husband's victuals very nice-
ly; whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it i but then the husband, who, as I said, had been
cook's mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands
of the three wives, they loitered about, sctched turtles
eggs, and caught sish and birds: in a word, any thing
but labour; and they fared accordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably, and the slothsul lived hard
and beggarly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it
is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene, different from all that had
fcbilNSON CRUSOE. ft
of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore sive or six
canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please; and there is no rcom to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of seeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about
It, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
experience, that their only business was to lie concealed,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the savages,
they would gooff again quietly, when their business was
done, having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I fay, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to no but to give no-
tice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to shew themselves; only placing a scout in a
proper

proper place, to give notice when the boats Went off to
lea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole co-
lony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them,
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprize, they found three savages left behind, and ly-
ing sast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed, they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman seast, that
like beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when
the others went, or they were wandered into the woods,
and did not come back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprized at this light,
and persectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor
as it happened, was with them, and his advice was asle-
ed, but he prosessed he knew not what to do ; as for
slaves they had enough already; and as to killing them,
they were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard
governor told me they could not think of shedding in-
nocent blood; for, as to them, the poor creatures had
done no wrong, invaded none of their property; and
they thought they had no just quarrel with them, to
take away their lives.
And here I must, injustice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico
and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men, of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these
Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had nothing of it
in their very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no
outrageous passions, and yet all of them men of great
courage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the unsufferable usage of the three Englishmen,
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the
case of th« savages, as above: after some consultation
they
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone;
but then the governor Spaniard recolledted, that the
three savages had no boat; and that, if they were left
to rove about the island, they would certainly discover
that there were inhabitants id it, and so they should be
undone that way.
Upon this they went back- again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still: so they resolved to awaken
them, and take them prisoners, and they did so: the
poor sellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women,
that they should be murdered and eaten ; for, it seems,
those people think all the world do as they do, eating
mens flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle ; I mean to my palace underthe
hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work; such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &c. and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were et to work, though it was notmuch
they had for them to do; and whether it was by neg-
ligence 'in guarding them, or that they thought the
sellows could not mend themselves, I know not, but one
of them ran away: and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again
•soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in
two days time: this thought terrisied them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good cause in-
deed, that if this sellow got sase home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account that there
were people in the island, as also how weak and sew they
were; for this savage, as I observed before, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they lived, nor had he ever seen
or heard the sire of any of their guns, much less had they
shewn him any other of their retired places, such as the
Vox, II. D Cave
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the tw*
jinglishmen had made, and the like.
_ The sirst testimony they had, that this sellow had
given intelligence of them was, that about two months
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side of the island, where they never used to
come before, and landed about an hour aster sun rise,
at a convenient place, sbout a mile srom the habitation
of the two Englishmen, whete this escaped man had
been kept: as the Spaniard governor said, had theyV
been all there, the damage would not have been so
much, for not a man of them would have escaped: but
the case disfered now very much; for two men to sifty
were too much odds: the two men had the happine/s
to discover them about a league osf, so that it was above
an hour before they landed; and as they landed about
a mile from their huts, it was some time before they
eouid come at them. Now having great reason to be-
lieve that they were betrayed, the siril thing they did,
was to bind the slaves which were left, and cause two
of the three men, whom they brought with the women,
who, it seems, proved very saithsul to them, to lead them
witja their two wives, and whatever they could carry a-
way with them, totheir retired place in the woods, which
I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two sel-
lows hand and foot till they heard sarther. .
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come
on shore, and that they bent their course directly that
way, they opened the sences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and gave them an account of it all; for they went
directly to the place.
When the two poor flighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three, who came with the women, and who
was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards,
with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; ana in the mean time they took their arms,
and what ammunition they had, and retreated toward
the place in the wood, where their wives were sent
keeping' at a distance; yet so that they might see, if
possible, which way the savages tock.
They had not gone sar, but. that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their enemies
come on directly to their habitation, arid in a moment
more could see all their huts and houshold-stuff flaming
up together, to their great grief and mortisication; for
they had a very great loss,- and to them irretriveable,
at least for some time. They kept their station for
awhile, till they found the savages, like wild beasts,
spread themselves all orer the piaeft, rummaging every
way, and every place they could think of, in search for
prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
net secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
some of the wild people nvght come that way, so they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile sarther, bclieve-
ing, as it afterwards happened, that the sarther they
strolled, the sewer would be together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of
a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large; and
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see what might oiler.
They had not stood there long,but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; aiid a little way surther they espied three more
coming aster them,and sive morebeyond them,all coming
the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now iti.great perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep their posture, or sly: but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help came,
they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat in the woods,
and then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
D 2 'vare
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then they
would get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubt-
ed not to aesend themselves, sire excepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, tho' all the savages that were
landed, which were near sifty, were to attack them.
Having resolv'd upon this, they next considered whether
they should sire at the two sirst, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party; by which the two and the sive that
followed would beseparated; at length they resolved to let
the two sirst pass, by, unless they mould spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them The two sirst savages also
consirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from
them towards another part of the wood; but the three,
and the sive after them, came forwards directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they re-
solved to take them in a line as they came; and as they
resolved to sire but one at a time, perhaps the sirst shot
might hit them all three; to which purpose, the man
who was to sire, put three or four bullets into his piece,
and having a fair loop hole, as it were, from a broken
hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of
the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both sire ; so the
other stood ready with nis piece, that if he did not drop
at the sirst shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the sirst was too good a marksman to miss his aim:
for, the savages kept near one another, a little behind
in a line; in a word, he sired, and hit two of them di-
rectly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in
the head; the second, which was the run-away Indian,
was shot thro' the body, and scll, but was not quite dead;
and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the fame ball that went through the body of the se-
cond; and, being dreadsully frighted, though not much
hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
'n a hideous manner.
The sive that were behind, more frighted with the
noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at sirst;
for the woods made the found a thousand times bigger
than it really was; the echoes rattling from one side to
another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming
and making, every sort, a ieveral kind of noise, ac-
cording to their kind, just as. it was when I sired the
sirst gun that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that place
since it was an iflund.
However, all being silent again, and they not know-
ing what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till
they came to that place where their companions lay,
in a condition miserable enough: and here the poor
ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over
the wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed,
enquiring of him how he came to be hurt; and who,
'tis very rational to believe, told them that a flash of sire
first, and immediately after that, thunder from thejr
gods, had killed those two, and wounded him, this,
I fay, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, lo they had never heard
a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard of a gun;
neither knew they any thing of killing or wounding at. a
distance, with sire and bullets; if they had, one might
reasonably believe, that they would .-not have stood so
unconcerned, in viewing the fate of their sellows, with-
out some apprehension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the fame time had no notion of their
danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and
the sirst having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
fly both together among them; and singling out by
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the sifth,
frighted even to death, though not hurt, sell with the
rest ; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made
our two men come boldly out from the tree' ^re
they had charged their guns again; which v
D 3
step; and they were under some surprise, when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of the
men alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one
not at all: this obliged them to fall upon them with
the stocks of their musquets; and sirst, they made sure
of the run-away savage, that had been the cause of all
the mischief; and of another that was hurt in his knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by
gestures and signs, for his lise; but could not fay one
word to them that they could understand. -'
Howe vcr,they signisied tohim tosit down at the foot of
a tree thereby; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece
. of rope twine, which he had by great chance in his
pocket, tied his seet fast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him; and, with what speed they
'could, made after the other two which were gone before
scaring they, or any more of them, should sind the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
58 ADVENTURES OF
'in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance;
however,they had the satisfaction to fee them cross over
a valley,towards th c sea, the quite contrary way from
that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid
of; and, being satissied with that, they went back to the
tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades; for he was gone,
nnd the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to
go away to the place where their wives were, to see if
all was well there; and to make them easy, who were in
fright enough to be sure; for though the savages were
their own country-folks, yet they were most terribly a-
fraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge
they had of them. .
When they came thither, they found the savages had
been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
found it; for indeed, it was inaccessible, by the trees
standing
79
standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were
not; they found, therefore, every thing very sase* only
the women in a terrible fright: while they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants,
and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone in a
body to desend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept the'r, in case the savages should have
roved over to that sde of the country; but they did
not spread so far: with the seven Spaniards came one of
the savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners for,
merly, and with them also came the savage whom the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of
the sev-'n men, and unbound the eighth, and' Drought
him along with them; where, however they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had done the (wo
others, win were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to then; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for
their own preservation: however, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it; but ordered, tlm they should be
sent out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and
be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food: wh;ch was done ;t and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards cam;, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves
to stay any longer there; but taking sive of the Spaniards
and themselves, with four musquets and a pistol among
them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went in
quest of the savages; and sirst, they came to the tree
where the men lay that had been killed; but it Was
-easy to* see, that some more of the savages had been
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given
it over.: from thence they a-dvanced to the sirst rising
'ground,wherethey had stood and seen their camp destroy-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
-of the smoke ; but neither could they here see anv
savages: they then respited, though -with all possible
caution, topo rbrw?.rd towards their ruined plantation:
but a little besore they tame thither, coming in sight of
the sea sliore, they law plainly all the savages embarked
again in their canoes, in or. er to be gone.
They seemed sorry at sirst that there was no way
to come at them, lo give them a parting blow: but
vipon the wh.de, were very well satissied to be rid of
therh
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and
£.11 their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to
come and help them to rebuild, and tc assist them with
needsul supplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any
good, yet, as soon as they heaid cs it (for tkey, living
remote eastward, knew rothing of the matter till all
was over) carre and offered their help and assistance,
and did very friendly work for several dayr, to restore
their habitation', and make necesiaries fer them j and
thus in a little time they were set upon their legs
again.
About two days after this, they had the farther sa-
tissaction cf seeing three of the savages canoes come
driving on shore, and, at some distance from them,
with two drowned men; by which they had reason
to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea, and
had overset some of them; for it blew very hard the
night aster they went off.
However, as some . might miscarry, so on the other
hand- enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
We\Jt of what they had done, as of what happened to
them; and to whet them on to another enterprise of
%hs same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them;
for, except what the sirst man had told them of inha-
titants, they could say little to it of their own know-
ledge; for they never saw one man, and the fellow be-
ing killed that had affirmed it, they had no other wit-
ness to consirm it to them.
It was sive or six months after this, before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men
were in hopes they had not forgot their former bad
luck,
luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable
fleet, of no less than twenty-eight canoes sull of savages
armsd with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war ; and they brought
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our
people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do ; and, in the sirst plat*,
knowing that their being entirely concealed was their
only sasety before^ and would much more be so now,
Xvhile the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved, sirst of all, to take down the huts,
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away
their goats to the old cave; because they supposed the
savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day,
to play .the old game over again, tho' they did not now
land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of
goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and
the next morning early they posted themselves with all
their force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened;
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east-end
•s the island, came ranging along the shore directly to*
-wards the place, to the number of two hundred and
fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was
but small indeed; but, that which was worse, they had
not arms for all their number neither: The WAole ac«
count, it seems, stood thus: First, as to men:
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved
very saithsul.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards-,
*9
Dj To
To arm these they had.
it Musquets ,
5 Pistole
3 Fowling-pieces
5 Musquets, or fowling pieces, which were .taken
by me from the mutinous seamen whom 1 reduced,
a Swords -
3 Old halberts
39
To their slaves they did not give either musquet or fu-
fil, 'but they had every one an halbert, or a long staff,
like a quarter staff, with a great spike of iron sastened
into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every
-one of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could
vimlfcbe prevailed upon, but they would come into the
i'sftgbit and they had bows and arrows, which the Spa-
niards had taken from the savages, when the sirst action
happened, which I have spoken of, where the Indians
foughtwith one another,and thewomen had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so of
ten, commanded the whole; and William Atkins, who,
tho* a dreadsul sellow for wickedness, was a most daring
bold sellow, commanded under him. The savages Came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst
of their sate, had no advantage in their situation; only
that Will Atkins, who now proved a most usesul sellow:,
with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of
bustles, as an advanced guard, with orders te let the sirst
•of them pass by, an.1 then sire into the middle of them;
and, as lopft as he had sired, to make his retreat, as
nimbly as he could, round a part of the wood, and so
come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having
a thicket of trees all before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, .out of all manner of order; an3
Will Atkins let about sifty of them pass by him; then
.feeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
ithree of his raea to sire, having loaded their musquet*
'" 'with
with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they
knew not; but the consternation and surprize was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were frijhted to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and see their
men killeJ, and others hurt, butsee nobody that did it;
when in the middle of their fright, William Atkins, and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest of them;
and in less than a mnute, the sirst three, being loaded
again, gave them a third volley.
Had William Atkins and his Then retired immediately,
as soon as they had sired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured
in their (hot continually,thc savages had b en esfectually
routed^ far the terror that was among them came princi-
pally from ihis^ viz. That they were killed by the Gods
with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that
hurt them ;• but William Atkins, staying to load again,
dilcovered.the cheat; some of the savages, who were at
a distance, spying them, came upon them behind; and
tho'Atkins and his men sired at them also, two or three
times, ami killed above twenty, retiring as sast as they
could, yet. they wounded Atkins himself, and killed
^>rve of his sellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they
did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian staves
who came with the women 5 this Have was a most gal-
lant sellow, atid fought most desperately, killing sive of
them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of
the armed staves, and an hatchet. .
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded,.
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground .
in the wood; and the Spaniards, after sirin< three vol- -
lies upon them, retreated also, for their.number was so
great, and they were so desperate, that tho' above sifty
-ot them were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men, searless of.
.danger, and shpt their arrows like a cloud; and it was
observed, that their wounded men, who were not quite
disabled, were made- outrageous by their wounds, and 
fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
«he Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the .
D 6 iavages
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
Again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,
and heads, with their clubs, and wooden (words, like
true savages: but, sinding our men were gone, they did
rot seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a
kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom; and
shouted twice, in token of their- victory: after which,
they had the mortisicatton to fee several of their wound-
ed men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had htm marched, and char-
ged them again all together at once; but the Spaniard
replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men
sight; let them alone till morning; all these wounded
men will be stiff and fore with their wounds, and faint
with the loss of blood, and so we fliall havethe sewer
ID engage.
The advke was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, That's tru«, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's
the reason I would go on, while I am warm. Well,
Seignior 'Atkins, fays the Spaniard, you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part, we will sight for you, if
you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till
morning; so they waited.
But as it was a cleir moon light night, and they
found the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon
them in the night, especially if they could come to give
them but one volley befare they were discovered. This
they had a fair opportunity to do: for one of the two
Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the sight be-
gan, led them round, between the woods and the sea-
side, westward, and turning short south, they came so
near where the thickest of them lay, that before they
were seen or heard, eight of them sired in among them,
and did dreadsul execution upon them; in half a mi-
nute more eight others sired after them; pouring in
their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not
able to fee who hurt them} or. which way to sty.
The
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expediti*
on, and then divided themselves into 3 bodies and resolved
to sall in among them all together: they had in each body
8 persons; that is to say 24, whereof were 22 men, and
the z women, who, by the way, sought deCperately.
They divided the sire-arms equally in each party,
and so of the halberts and staves. They would have
Aad the women keep back; but they said, they were
resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from among the
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could; th» savages -stood
all together, but were in the utmost consusion, hearing
the noise of our men shouting from three quarters toge-
ther; they would have fought if they had seen us; and
as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some ar-
rows were shot, and poor old Fiiday was wounded, tho*
not dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but,
tunning up to them, sired among them three ways, and
then sell in with the but-ends of their mussuets, their
swords, armed staves, and hatchets; and laid about
them Co well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
fcreaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
Way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two <ight3, about 180 of
them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
thro' the woods, and over the hills, with all the ipeed
that sear and nimble seet could help them to do; and
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they got altogether to the sea-side, where th=y landed*
and where their .canoes lay. But their disaster was. hot
at an end yet; far it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the sea-*ard; so that it. was impossible
for them to put off; nay, the storm continui-ig ail nightj
when the tide came up, their canoes we*t most of them
driven by the surge os the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required insinite toil to get them off; and some
of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.
Our men, tho' gjad of their victory, yet got little rest
that night; but having refreshed themselves as well as
they
they could, they r:folved to march to that part of the
island where the savages were fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the sight had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past reco-
vering life; a sight disagreeable enough to generous
minds; for a-truly great man, tho' obliged by the law of
battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery..
However, there was no need to give any order in this!
case; for their own savages who were their servants,
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the savages army lay, where
there appeared about ico still; their posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the ground, .with their knees up to-
wards their mouth, and the head put between the
hands, leani-g down upon the knees
When our men came within two musquet-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two musquets to
be sired without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that
by their countenance he might know what to expect,
viz. Whether they were still in heart to sight, or were-
so heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged,
and so he might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took ; for, as soon as the savages heard
the sirst gun, and law the flash of the second, they,
started up upon their seet in the greatest consternation-
imaginable; and, as our men advanced swiftly towards -
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind'of an howling noise, which our men did not un-
derstand, and had never heard before, and thus they-
ran up the hills into the country.
At sirst, our men had much rather the weather had.
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they
did notthen consider, that this mightprobably have been-
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as.
not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them:
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this
case. his advice was, to take the advantage that offer-
ed, and clap in between them and their boats; and
To deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any-
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were
against it, for sear of making the wretches fly into the
-woods, and live there desperate; and so thev should
have them to hunt like wild beast, be afraid to stir about
their business, and have their plantation continually
risled, all their tame goats destroyed, and in short, be
Teduced to a lise of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do witk
too men, than with 100 nations; that as they must de-
stroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all
of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he shewed them
the neeeflity of it so plainly, that they all came into it;
so they went to work immediately with the boats, and,
getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried to set some of them on sire; but they were so wet,
thatthey would scarce burn.However, the sire so burned
the upper part, that it soon made them unsit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what
they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods; and, coming as near as they could to our men,
kneeled down and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and some
other words of their langnage, which none of the others
understood any thing of; but as they made pitisul ges-
tures, and strange noises, it was easyto understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone, and never come thither again.
But our men were now satissied, that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but ef-
fectually to prevent any of these people from ever going
home again; depending upon this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colonv was undone: so that, letting them
'know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
•work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one,
that the storm had not destroyed before; at the sight o£
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
•which our people heard plain enough; after which they
Tan about the island like distracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know at sirst what to do
with them. .
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consi-
der, that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; for tho' it is true they had driven
away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind their
main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the
cave in the valley ; yet they found out my plantation at
the bower, and pulled it all to-pieces, and all the sences
and planting about it; trod all the corn under foot; tore
up the vines and grapes, beingjust then almost ripe; and
did our men an inestimable damage, tho' to themselves,
not one sarthing's worth of service.
Tho' our men were able to sight them upon all oc-
casions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them,
or hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble
of foot for sur men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single, for sear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers: the best was, they had no
weapons; sor tho' they had bows, they had no arrows
left, nor any materials to make any, nor had they any
edged tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the same time our
men were also brought to very hard circumstances by
them; for tho' their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled; and
what to do, or which way to turnthemselves,they knew
not: the only resuge they had now, was the stock of
cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. The three Englishmen,
William Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced
to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side »f his head, just under the tem-
ples, so that he never spoke more; and it was very re-
markable, that this was the same barbarous sellow who
cut the poor savage stave with his hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this
time than mine was at any time after I sirst discovered
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my com, and my tame cattle;
for now they had, as I may fay, an hundred wolves upon
the
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The sirst thing they concluded, when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if pos-
sible, drive them up to the farther part of the island,
south-east, that if any more savages come on shore, they
might not sind one another; then, that they would daily
hunt and harrass them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till theyhad reduced their number; and
if they could at last tame them, and bring them to any
thing, they would give them corn, and teach them how
to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and so terrisied
them with their guns, that in a sew days, if any of them
sired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for sear; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and far-
ther, till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up
in the woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced
them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many
were afterwards found dead in the woods, without any
hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts re-
lent, and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my lise: and he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be
able to act as interpreter, and to go among them, and
fee if they might be brought to some conditions, that
might be depended upon to save their lives, and to do
us no spoil. •
It was some time before any of them could be taken;
but, being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner; he was sullen at sirst, and
would neither eat nor drink; but sinding himself kindly
used, and victuals given him, and no violence offered
him, he at last prew tractable, and came to himself.
'. They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
with him, and told him how kind the others would tie
to them all ; that they would not only save their live?
but would give them a part of the ill and to live in, pro-
vided they would give satissaction, that they should keep
in their own bounds, and not come beyond them, to in-
jure or prejudice others ; and that they should have corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread,
and some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk with the rest
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assur-
ing them, that if they did not agree immediately, they
should all be destroyed.
The poor wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the pro-
posal at the sirst osfer, and begged to have some food
given them ; upon which twelve Spaniards and twoEng-
iiihmen, well armed, and three Indian (laves, and old
Friday, marched to the place wher; they were, the 3
Indian staves carried the.11 a large quantity of bread,
and some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the sun,
and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to
the side of an hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions
very thanksully, and were the most saithsul fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never
came out of their bounds ; and there they lived when I
. came to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them; they wanted
. nothing but wives, an i they fjoa would have been a
nation: they were consined to a neck of land, far-
rounded with high r >cks behind them, and lying plain
towards the lea before them, on the south east corner of
the island : they had land enough, and it was ve;y good
and fruitful for they had a piece of land about a mife
and half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make weoden spades, such as
I made for myself; and gave amonsr them 12 hatchets,
and 3 or 4 knives ; and there they lived the most sub-
jected innocent creatures that were ever heard of.'
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquility,
with respect to the savages, till I came to re-visit them,
which was in about two years; not but that now and
then some canoes of savages came on shore for their
.„ , triumphal
triumphal unnatural seasts ; but as they were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
Came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
worth notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonder-
sully civilized by them, andthey frequently went among
them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters; for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly, all
forts of baskets, sieves, bird cages, cupboards, &c. as
also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at such
wtork, when they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
because we surnished them with knives, scistars, spades
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which
they could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like basket work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd;
but was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat,
as against all forts of vermin ; and our men were so taken
with it, that they got th« wild savages to come and do
the like for them: so that when I come to see the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if
they lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
sober sellow, he had made himself such a tent of bas-
ket-work, as I believe was never seen; it was 120 paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the
walls were as close-worked as a basket, in pannels or
squares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, staiid-
r — '' In J-
»» 1 ADVEKTURE* Of
ing about 7 seet high: in the middle was another n*t
above 22 paces round, but built stronger, being eight-
liquare in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
-mery strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof of eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes,
which he had made himself too, out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance of ingenuity in several things whit-h he had no
knowledge of; ht made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the sire; he made himselfchar-
coal for his work, and he formed out of one of the iron
crows a midling good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, sta-
ples and spikes, bolts and hmges. But to return to the
house; aster he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rafters with baftet-work,
so sirm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously
with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a free,
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as, if
it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the
savages made the baskct-work for him..
The outer circuit was covered, as' a lean-to, all
round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from
the 32 angles to the top posts of the inner house, being
about twenty-seet distant; so that there was'a space like
a walk, within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same
wicker work, but much sairer, and divided it into six
apartments, for that he had six rooms on a floor, and
©ut of every one of these there was a door; sirst, into
-the entry or coming into the main tent, and another
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that
this walk was also (divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the samily had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumserence, what other
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered:
as soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
you
:K >"'.V* YORK
: AVIARY'
• . '- -- .4; <. wo
w U oi r j u -N UATIO X It
you had a short passage ftrait before you to the door of
the inner house ; but on either side was a wicker parti-
tion, and a door in it, by which you went, sirst, into
a large room or store-house, 20 feet wide, and about
30 seet long, and through that into another not quite so
long: so that in the outer circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets
or retired rooms to the respective chambers of the inner
circle; and four large warehouses or barns, or what you
please to call them, which went in thro' one another,
two bn either hand of the passage, that led through the
outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of baiket-work, I believe, was never seen
in the world ; nor an house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three
families, that is to say, Will Atkins, and his companion;
the third was killed, but his wise remained with three
children ; for she was,- it seems, big with child when he
died; and the other two were not at all backward to
give the widow her full share of every thing, I mean,
as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c. and when they killed
a kid, or found a turtle om the shore, : so that they all
lived well enough, though it was true, they were not so
industrious as the other two,as has been obierved'already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted; viz. that
as for religion, I don't know that there was any thing
of that kind among them ; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in mind, that there was a God, by the very
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name:
nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the
better for having been married to Christians, as we muft
call them; for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into
any discourse with their wives about a God, or to tails
any thing to them concerning religion;
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say>
the wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak English pretty well; and all the children
tl;ey had, which were near twenty in all, were taught
to speak English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at sirst spoke it in a very broken manner,
like
like their mothers. There were none of those children
above six years old when 1 came thither; for it was not
much above seven years that they had setched these sive
savage ladies, over, but they had all been pretty fruitsul,
for they had all children, more or less: I think the
cook's mate's wise was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good sort of well governed, quiet,
laborious women, modeit and decent, helpsul to one an-
other, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I
cannot call them husbands; and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
about afterwards by my means, or, at least, by the con-
sequence of my coming among thtm.
Having thus given an account of the colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my sive runagade Englishmen, I
must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main
body of the samily; and in whose story there are some
incideats also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances, when they were among the savages; they
told me readily,that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they
were a poor miserable dejected handful of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the
weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but starving: one of them, a grave and very sensible
man, told me, he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wise men to give up them-
selves to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reason offered, as well for present support,
as for future deliverance; he told me, that grief was
the most senseless insignisicant passion in the world; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
view to things to come, and had no share in any thing
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the
affliction than proposed a remedy: and upon this, he
repeated a Spanish proverb; which, tho' I cannot repe?t
in just the same words that he spoke it, yet I remember
I made it into an English proverb of my own thvis:
legally married; both which were

brought
la
. In trouble to be troubled, •• .
Is to have your trouble doubled.
tie ran on then ia remarks upon all the little im-
provements I had made in my solitude; my unwearied
application, as he called it, and howl had made a con-
dition, which, in its circumstance, was at sirst much
worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than
theirs was, even now, when they were altogether: he
told me, it was remarkable, that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any
people that ever he met with; that their unhappy na-
tion, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the
world to struggle with misfortunes; for that their sirst
step in danger, after common esforts are over, was al-
ways to despair, lie down under it and die, without rous-'
ing th?ir thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.
I told him, their case and mine disfered exceedingly;
that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries,
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till
they could provide it: that it is true, I had this dis.
advantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the 'supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands,
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore- was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards
been in your case, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the ship as you did: nay, says he,
we should never have found means to have gotten a
raft to carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore
without boat or fail; and how much less should we
have done, said he, if any of us had been alone! Well,
I desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they land-
erf: he told me, they unhappily landed at a place
where there were people'without provisions; whereas,
had they had the common sense to have put off to sea
again, and gone to another island a little sarther, they
had found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where
there
there were provisions, though no people; that is to fay,
that theSpantards of Trinidad had frequently been there,
and silled the island with goats and hogs at several
times; where they have bred in such multitudes, and
where turtle and lea fowls where in such plenty, that
they could have been in no want of flesh, though they
had found no bread; whereas here they were only sus-
tained with a sew roots and herbs, which ihey under-
stood not, and which had no substance in them, and
which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn-
canibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty
of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove
to civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them
rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but i»
vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust,
that they, who came thither for assistance and support,
should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them bread; intimating, it seems, that none mould set
up for theinstructors of others, but those who could live
without them.
Thev gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they
were driven to; how sometimes they were many days
without any food at all; the island they were upon being
inhabited by a fort of savages that lived more indolent,
and, for that reason, were left supplied with the neces-
saries of lise, than they had reason to believe others
were in the fame part of the world ;' and yet they found
that these savages were less ravenous and voracious,
than these who had better supplies of food.
Also they added, that they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness, the go-
verning Providence of God directs the event of things
in the world; which, they said, appeared in their cir-
cumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a better place to live in,
_ they had then been out of the way of the relief that
happened to them by my means.
Then they gave me an account, how the savages,
vhora they lived among, expected them to go out with
then
tTiem into their wars: and it was true, that, as they had
sire arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose
their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible
both to friends and enemies; buc being without powder
and shot, and yet in a condition, that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars;
when they came in the sield of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they
neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed,
the three halberts they had, were of use to them; and
they would often drive a whole little army before them,
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this they
were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great
danger from their arrows; till at last they sound the way
to make themselves large targets of wood, which they
covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they
knew not; and these covered them from the arrows of
the savages; that, notwithstanding these, they were
sometimes iri great danger, and were once sive of them
knocked down together, with the clubs of the savages,
which was the time when one of them was taken pri-
soner; that is to say, the Spaniard, whom I had relieved:
That at sirst they thought he had been killed, but when
afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner, they were
under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willing-
ly have all venturea their lives to have rescued him.
They tcld me, that when they were so knocked down,
the rest of their company rescued them, and stood over
them, sighting till they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they made
their way with their halberts and piece.-, standing close
together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got
the victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow,
because it was with the loss of their friend; whom the
other party sinding him alive, carried oft' with some
others, as I gave an account in my former.
vol. 11. E They
They described most affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild
men; and, yet how more and more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, and that
there was a Christian in a place near, much more one
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute,
to their deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight
«f the relief I lent them, and at the appearance of
loaves of bread, things they had not seen since their
coming to that miserable place; how often they crossed
it, and blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it; as also
of the other things I had sent for their supply. And,
after all, they would have told me something of the
joy they were in, at the sight of a boat and pilots to
carry them away to the person and place, from whence
all these new comforts came; but they told me, it was
impossible to express it by words; for their excessive
joy driving them to unbecoming extravagancies, they
had no way to describe them, but by telling me, that
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent
to their passion, suitable to the sense that was upon them;
that, in some it worked one way, and in some another;
and that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would
burst out into tears; others be half-mad, and others im-
mediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me,
and called to my mind Friday's extacy, when he met
his father, and the poor people's extacy, when I took
them up at sea, after their ship was on sire; the mate of
the ship's joy, when he found himself delivered in the
place, where he expected to perish; and my own joy,
when, after twenty-eight years captivity! I found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country: All these
things made me more sensible os the relation of these
poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things,
as I found them, I must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which 1 left them.
It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled
troubled- no more with the savages; or that, if they
were, they would be able to cut them oft', if they were
twice as many as before; so that they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discdurse
with the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their
stay in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any
of them oft', so it would not be just to carry oft' some,
and leave others, who perhaps, would be unwilling to
stay, if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them, I came to establish
them there, not to remove them ; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds
for them: That I had been at a great charge to supply
them with all things necessary; as well for their con-
venience, as their desence; and that I had such par-
ticular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employ-
ments which they were bred to, being artisicers, to
assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them;
and before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one b/one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the sirst animosities that had been among them,
and could shake hands with one another, and engage in
a strict friendship, and union of' interest, so that there
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
William Atkins, with abundance of srankness and
good humour- said, They had met with asflictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough
to make them all friends: That, for his part, he would
live and die with them; and was so fur from designing
any tiling against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they
had done nothing to him but what his own bad.hu-
mour made necessary, and what he would have done,
and, perhaps, much worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish
and brutish things he had done to them; and was very
willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friend-
ship and union with them; and would do any thing
that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years.
E 2 The
758721 A
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at sirst, dis-
armed and excluded William Atkins, and his two coun-
trymen, for their ill conduct, as they had let me know;
and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William. Atkins had behaved
himself so bravely in the great sight they had with the
savages, and on several occasions since, and had shewed
himself so faithful to, and concerned for the general in-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past ; and thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with neceflaries, as any of them;
and that they had testisied their satisfaction in him, by
commiting the command to him, next to the governor
himself: and as they had an entire considence in him,
and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged, they
had merited that considence, by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted: and
they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never hav£ any interest
separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together;
and indeed, we made a splendid seast: I caused the
ship's cook, and his mate to come on more, and drese
our dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on shore,
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef,
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
with our punch bowl, and materials to sill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the
Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many
years; and which it may be supposed, they were ex-
ceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our seast sive whole- kids,
which the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board our ship to the seamen, that
they might seast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
with their salt meat from on board.
After this seast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that
there might be no dispute about dividing, I shewed them
there was sufficient for them all; and desired, that they
might
might all take an equal quantity of the goods that were
for wearing ; that is to fay, equal when made up. As
sirst, I distributed linen sufficient- to make every one of
them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard's requell, after-
wards made them up six; these were exceedingly comfort-
able to them, having been what, as I may fay, they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
1 allotted the thin Eng'ifh stuff-, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged sittest for the heat of the st afon, cooi
and loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed,
they should make mere, aj they thought sit i The like
for pumps, shoes, stockings and hat«, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, fat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care I had taken of them, and how well I had
surnished them: they told me, I was a father to them:
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place: and they all
voluntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place with-
out my consent.
Then i presented to them the people I had brought
with me; particularly the taylor, the smith, and the
two carpenters, all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, ray general artisicer, than whom they could
jiot name any thing that was more needsul to them; and
the taylor, to shew his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every
one a shirt the firft thing he did; and, which was still
more, he taught the women not only how to few and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make
the shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I /carce need mention how use-
ful they were, for<hey took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy things, and made them clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every
thing they wanted of that kind.
But, to let them see how nature made artisicers at fust,
I carried the carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-
house, as I callea it ; and they both owned, they never
law an instance of such natural ingenuity before; nor
E 3 an -
any thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of
its kind: and one of them, when he saw it, after mu-
sing a good while, turning about to me, 1 am sure, says
he, that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
b'ut give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake.,
for we had no harrows, or ploughs; and, to every se-
parate place, a pickaxe, a crow, a broadaxe, and a saw;
always appointing that as often as any were broken, or
worti out, they should be supplied, without grudging,
out of the general stores that 1 left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives,
scissars, and all forts of tools, and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted; and he must be a fool
that would waste or spoil them, on any account what-
soever: And, for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to prosusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as I used
to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there was
occasion; and were able to sight 1-00 savage.-;, if they
had but some little advantages of situation; which also
they could not miss of, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mo-
ther was starved to death, and the maid also; she was a
sober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
haved io inoffensively, that every one gave her a good
word: She had, indeed, ah unhappy lise with us, there
being nu woman in the ship but herself; but the bore it
with patience. After a while, seeing things so well or-
dered, and in so sine a way of thriving upon my island,
and considering that they had neither business or ac-
quaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so
long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to rer
.-*fnain on the island, and be entered among my family,
as they called it
I agreed to it readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents < r
houses
houses set up, surrounded with a basket work, pallisadoed
like Atkins's.and adjoining to his plantation ; their tents
were contrived so, that they had each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store-
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habi-
tation to the same place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the sirst servants, at my old habitation
under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city,
and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as vvell under, as on the outside of the hill, that they
lived, tho' persectly concealed, yet sull at large. Never
was their such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I be-
lieve, in any part of the world: For, I verily believe,
iooo men might have ranged the island a month, and,
if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; sor the
trees stood so thick, and so close, and grew so sast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them1 down
first, could discover the place; except the two narrow
entrances where they went in and out, could be sound;
which was not very easy: One of them was just down at
the water's edge, on the side of the creek; and it was
afterwards above 200 yards to the place ; and the other
was up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it ; and they had a large wood, thick planted,-
also, on the top of the hill, which contained above an
acre, which grew apace, and covered the place from all
discovery there, with only one narrow place between two
trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will. Atkins's, where
there were four samilies os Englishmen, I mean those I
had left there, with their wives and children; three
savages, that were slaves; the widow and children of
the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the
maid, and, by the way, we made a wise of her also,
besore we went away: There were also the two carpen-
ters and the taylor, who I brought with me for them:
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them,
especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man whom;I called Jack of all trades;
E 4^ who
who was himsels as good almost as twenty men, for he
was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry
fellow; and, before I went away, we married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the (hip;
whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally
to say something of the French ecclesiastic, that I had
brought with me out of the ship's crew, whom I took
at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and perhaps,
it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record, of a man, whom, before I
begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in
teriws very much to his disadvantage, In the account of
Protestants; as sirst, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
-Popish Priest; and thirdly a French Popish Priest.'
But justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious,
and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive
in his charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he
did: What, then, can any one say, against my being
very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstand-
ing his prosession? Though it may be my opinion,
perhaps, as well as the opinion of others, who shall read
this, that he was mistaken.
The sirst hour that I began to converse with him,
aster he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies,
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversa-
tion: And he sirst began with me about religion, in
the most obliging manner imaginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God (and, at
that, he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and, by
your ob iging civilky, have taken me into your samily,
giving me an opportunity of free conversation: Now,
Sir, says he, you see by my habit, what my prosession
is; and I guess by your nation, what your's is: I may
think it is my duty, and, doubtless, it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
souls that I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am here under
your permission, and in your family, I am bound in
justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good
manners,
manners to be under your government; and therefore,
I shall not, without your leave, enter into any debates
on the points of religion, in which we may not aeree,
farther than you shall give me leave.
I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; that it was true, we were
such people as they call heretics; but, that he was
not the sirst Catholic that I had conversed with, with-
out salling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the
questions to any height in debate; that he should not
si :d himself the worse used for being of a different opi-
nion from us; and if we did not converse without any
dislike on either side, upon that score, it would be his
sault, not ours.
He repliedj that he thought our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not hh
business to cap principles with every man he discoursed
with; and that he rather desired me to converse witl»
him as a gentleman, than as areligieux; that if I would
give him leave, at any time, to discourse upon religious
subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then he did not doubt but I would allow him also to
desend his own opinions, as well as he could: but that,
without my leave, he would not bj eak in upon rjne with
any such thing.
He told me sarther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his office, as a priest, as well as a
private Chfictian, to procure the good of the (hip, an <
the sasety of all that was in her: and though, perhaps,
we would not join with him, and ha could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he would da
upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and,
as he was of a most obliging gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was, if I may lieallowed to fay so, a man of gou4
sense, and, as I believe, os great learning.
He gave me a iaost diverting account »f Utlisr,
and of the many extraordinary events «f it; of mariy
adventures which had besallen him in the few? years
that he had been abroad in *he world, .and particu-
larly this was vejy remarkable; viz. that during the.
voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune
to be sive times shipped and uu&ipped, and never tat ga
• Es to
to the place whither any of the ships he was in, were at
sirst designed: that his sirst intent was, to have gone to
Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound
thither,at M.Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in
bad weather, the ship received some damage.by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was ob-
liged to unload her cargo there: That sinding a Portu-
guese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to fail,
and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there,
bound to Martinico, he went on board, ia order to sail to
the Madeiras; but the Master of the Portuguese ship
being but an indifserent mariner, had been out iu his
reckoning, and they drove to Fial; where, however, he
happened to sind a very good market for his cargo,
which was corn; and theresore resolved not to go to the
Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to go away
to Newfoundland: He had no remedy in the exigence,
bat to go with the ship; and had a pretty good voyage
as far as the Banks, lo they call the place where they
catch the sish, where mdeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in theri ver of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
shou'd have an opportunity to complete his first design:
But when he came to Quebec, the master of the ship died,
and the ship proceeded no farther: So the next voyage
be shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burnt,
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped them
with us for the East Indies, as I have already said.
Thus he had been disappointed in sive voyages, all, as
I may call it, in one voyage, besides what 1 shall have
occasion to mention farther of the same person.
But I shall not make digressions into other men;
stories, which have no relation to my own. I return
to what concerns our affair in the island: He came to
me one morning, for he lodged among us all the while
we were upon the island; and it happened to be just
when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at
the farthest part of the island; I lay, he came to me,-
and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he
had, for two or three days, desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which, he hoped,- would not -
iv displeasing to me, because he thought it might, in
fume
some measure, correspond with my general design*
which was the prosperity of my new colony; and,
perhaps, might put it, at least; more than he ye'
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course; and turning a little short, how, Sir, said I, can
it be said, that we are not in the way of God's blessing,
after such visible assistances, and wondersul deliver-
ances, as We have seen here, and of which I have given-
you a large account?
If you had pleased, Sir, said he, (with a world of
modesty, and yet with great readineb) to have heard
me, you would have found no room to have been dis-
pleased, much less to think- so hard of me, that I should
suggest, that you have not had wondersul assistances and
deliverances: And, I hope, on your behalf, that you
are in the way ot God's blessing, and your design'is ex-
ceeding good and will proiper. But, Sir, said he, tho'
it were more Ib, than is even possible to you, yet there
may be some among you, that are not equally right in
their actions: And you know, that in the story of
Israel, one Achan, in the camp, removed God's bles-
sing from- them, and turned-his hand so against them,
that thirty-si.x of them, though noi concerned in the
crime, where the objects of divine vengeance, and
bore the weight of that punishment.
I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told
him, his inserence was so just, and the whole design
seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own
nature, that I was very lorry I had interrupted him;
and begged him- to go oa: And, in the me.an time,
because it seemed, that what we had both to say, might
take up some time, I told him, I was going to the Eng-
lishman's plantation: and asked him to go with me, and
we might aiscourse of it by'the way: He told me, he
would more willingly wait on me thither, because there
partly, the thing was acted, which he desired to speak
to me about: So we walked on, and I pressed him to
be free and plain with me, in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a sew propositions, as^ the foundation of
what L have to fay, that we may not differ in the ge-
E 6 ntra'
neral principles, tho' we may be of some differing opi-
nions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though we
disfer in some of the doctrinal ankles of religion, and
it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the case
before us, as I shall shew afterwards; yet, there are some
general principles in which we both agree; viz. First,
that there is a God; and that this God, having given us
some stated general rules for our service and obedience,
we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend him,
either by neglecting to do what he has commanded, or
by doing what he has expressly forbidden: and let our
disferent religions be what they will, this general prin-
ciple is readily owned by us all: That the blessing
of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sin-
ning against his command: and every good Christian
will be asfectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care, living in a total neglect of God and his
^commands. It is not your men being protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me
from being concerned for their souls, and from endea-
vouring, is it lies before me, that they should live in as
little distance from, and enmity with, their Maker as
possible.; especially, if you give me leave to meddle so
sar in your circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told
him, I granted all he said, and thanked him, that
he would so sar concern himself for us; and begged he
would explain the particulars, of what he had observed,
that, like Joshua (to take his own parable) I might put
away the accursed thing from us.
Why, then, Sir, says he, I will take the liberty you
give me; and there are three things, which, if I am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon
your endeavours here, andSvhlch I should rejoice, for
your fake, and their own, to see removed. And, Sir,
says .he, I promise myself, that you will sully agree with
me in them all, as soon as J name them; especially, be-
cause I shall convince you, that every one of them may,
with great ease,-and very much to your satisfaction, be
remedied.
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities,
but went on. First, Sir, says he, you have here four
Englishmen,
Englishmen, who have setched women from among the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have
had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the
sense of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adul-
tery. To this, Sir, says he, I know you will object,
that there was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, Of
of any prosession, to perform the ceremony; nor any
pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of mar-
riage, and have it signed between them. And I know
also, Sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you; f
mean, of the agreement that he obliged them to make,
when they took thele women, viz. That they should chuse
them out by consent, and keep separately to them;
which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agree-
ment with the women as wives, but only an agreement
among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the essence ot the sacrament of matrimony
(so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only in the
mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man
and wise, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman,
at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the man to abstain from all other women, to eng; ge
in no other contract while these subsist; and on all ot* a-
iions, as ability allows, t© provide honestly for thym,
and their children; and to oblige the women to the same,
or like conditions, mutatitmutandis, on their side.
Now, Sir, says he, these menmay, when they please,
or when occasion preients, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women, and many them whilst these are living. Ani
here he added, with some warmth, How, Sir, is God
honoured in this unlawsul liberty? And how shall a
bleffing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design,
while these men, who at present are your subjects, under
your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?
I consess, I was struck at the thing itself, but much
more with the convincing arguments he supported it
with}
with; for it was certainly true, that though they had no
clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract on both
sides, made before witnesses, and consirmed by any
token, which they had all agreed to be bound by, tho'
it had been but the breaking a stick between them, en-
gaging the men to own these women for their wives upon
all occasions, and never to abandon them or their chil-
dren, and-the women to the fame with their husbands,
had been an effectual iawfpl marriage in the sight of
God; and it was a great neglect that it was not dcte.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest,
by telling him, that all that part was done when I was
not here; and ihey had lived ib many years with them-
now, that if it was an adultery, it was past remedy;
they could do nothing in it now.
Sir, fays he, asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this; that it being done in your ab-
sence, you could not be charged with that part of the
Crime. But I beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you
are not therefore under an obligation to do your utter-
most now to put an end to it: how can you think, but
that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt-
for the suture, will lie entirely upon you; Because it is
certainly in your power now to put an end to it; and in
nobody's power but your's.
1 was so dull Hill, that I did not take him right ; but
I imagined, that, by putting an end to it, he meant,-
that I should part them, and not suffer them to live toge-
ther any longer: and I said to him, I could not do that
by any means, for that it would put the whole island in
consusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far*
mistake him. No, Sir, says he, I do not mean that
you should separate them, but legally and effectually
marry them now: and, Sir, as my way of marrying
may not be so easy'to reconcile them to, tho' it will be
as effectual, even by your own laws ; so your way may
be as well besore God, and as valid among men; I
mean, by a written contract, signed by both man and
woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the
laws of Europe would decree to be valid.
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity of zeal, besides die unusual impartiality in his
discourse,
discourse, as to his own party or church: and such a true
warmth for the preserving people that he had no know-
ledge of, or relation to: I iay, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God; the like of which I had,
indeed, not met with any where. But recollecting what
he had said, of maming them by a written contract,
which I knew would Hand too; I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his part, very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them.
And 1 knew no reason why they should scruple to let
him marry them all ; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England,- as
if they were married by one of our own clergymen.—
What was 'afterwards done in this matter, I mall speak
of by itself.
1 then prefled him to tell me, what was the second
complaint which he had to make; acknowledging, that
I was very much his debtor for the sirst j and thanked
him heartily for it. He told me, he would use the same
freedom and plainness in the second; and hoped I
would take it as well: and this was, that, notwith-
standing these English subjects of mine, as he called
them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even
to read it; and that they were, as he peceived, women
of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction;
yet they had not to this hour taught them any thing of
the Christian religion ; no, not so much as to know that
there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner God
was to be served; or that their own idolatry, and wor-
shipping they knew not who, was false and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account for;
and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. I am per-
suaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage coun-
try, whence their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters,
and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far
as I can see, has taken with them, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir, said he, tho' I
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the
subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general
principles of the Christian religion; that they might, at
least, hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the Re-
surrection, and of a suture state, things which we all
believe; they had, at least, been so much nearer coming
into the bosom of the true church, than they are now in
the public prosession of idolatry, and devil-worship.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and
embraced him with an excess of passion: how far, said
I to him, have I been from understanding the most es-
sential part of a Christian, viz. to love the interest as
the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls.
I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
O Sir, do not fay so, replied he; this thing is not your
fault. No! saiu I, but why did I never lay it to heart
as well as you? It is not too late yet, said he; be not
too forward to condemn yourself But what can be done
now? said I; you seel am going away. Will you give
me leave, said he, to talk with these poor men about it .*
Yes, with all my heart, said I, and will oblige them to
give heed to what you say too. As to that, said he, we
must ltave them to the mercy of Christ} but it is our bu-
siness to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them;
and if you will gi ve j;ie leave, and God his blessing, I
do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be
brought home into the great circle of Christianity, if not
into the particular faith that we all embrace; and that
even while you stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not
only give ycu leave, but give you a thousand thanks for
it. What followed on this account I shall mention also
again in its place.
I now pressed him for the third article in. which we
were to blame: Why really, fays he, it is of the fame
nature, and I will proceed (asking your leave) with the
same plainness as before: it is about your poor savages
yonder, who are (as I may fay) your conquered subjects,
it is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought ta be, received
among all Christians, of what church, or pretended
church soever; viz. that Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated by all possible means, and-on all possible
occasion?.
occasions. . It is on this principle that our church sends
Tniffionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
refidence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, Sit, you
have an opportunity here, to have six or seven and
thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good; which is really worth the expence of a man's
whole lise.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not on*word
to fay: I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me, let his particular principles
be of what kind foever: As for me, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before;
and, I believe, should not have thought of it; for I
looked upon these savages as slaves, and people, whom*
had we any work for them to do, we would have used
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other part of the world; for our business
Was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tissied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the cafe: I say I was
confounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some disorder: Sir, said he, I shall be very sorry, if what
I have said gives you any offence. No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly
consounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any notice cf this before, but with reflecting what no-
tice t am able to take of it now. You know. Sir, said I,
what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East-
Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain
their ship here, the men lying all this while at victuals
and wages upon the owner's account: it is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve days here ; and if I stay
more, I must pay 3I. sterling per diem demurrage; nor
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more; and
I have
I have been here thirteen days already; so that I am-
persectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again ; in which case*
if this single ship should miicarry in any part os her
voyage, I stuuld be just in the same condition that I
was left in here at sirst - and from which I hav« been-
so wondersully delivered.
He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my
voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether
the blesting of saving seven and thirty souls, was not
worth my venturing all I had in the world for t I was
not so sensible os tha. as he was; and I returned upon
him thus: Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to
be an instrument, in God's hand, to convert seven and
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you
are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so
that it seems naturally to sall into the way of your pro-
festion ; how is it then, that you do not rather offer your-
self to undertake it, than press me to do it?
Upon this he saced about, just before me, as he walk-
ed along, and putting me to a sull stop, made me a
very low bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir>
fays he, sor giving me so evident a call to so blessed a
work; and if yuu think yourself discharged srom it,
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,-
and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and-
disficulties of such a broken disappointed voyage as I
have met with, that I have dropt at last into so glorious
a work.
I discovered a kind of rapture in his sace, while he
spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like sire, his sace
glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
been salling into sits ; in a word, he was sired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while, before 1 could tell what to say to him;
for I was really surprised to sind a man of such since--
rity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the
* ordinary rate of men, not out of his prosession only, but
even of any prosession whatsoever: but, after I had con-
sidered it a while, I asked him seriously, if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture on the single consi-
deration of an attempt on those poor people, to be locked
up
up in an implanted island, for, perhaps, his lise; and,
at last, might not know whether he should be able to do
them any good, or not.
He turned short upon me, and asked me, what I called
a venture: pray, Sir, said he, what do you think 1 con-
sented to go in your ship to the East-Indies for? Nay,
said I, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he; and do you think,
if I can convert these seven and thirty men to the saith
of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never
be setched off the island again? Nay,is it not insinitely
of more worth to save io many souls, than my lise is,
or the lise of twenty more of the same prosession? Yes,
Sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souk of these poor men, though
J was never to set my soot off this island, or see my na-
tive country any more: but, since you will honour me,
fays he, with puifting me into this work (for which I
will pray for you all the days of my lise) I have one
humble petition to you, says he9 besides. What is that?'
said I. Why.siiyshe, it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to
assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak to
them, or they to me.
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday .because.
I could not think of parting with him, and that ior many
jeasons; he had been the companion of my travels.;
he was not only saithsul to me, but sincerely affectionate
to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something
considerable sor him, if he outlived me, as it was pro-
bable he would: then lknew, thatasJ had bred Friday
up to be a protestant, it would quite consound him, to
bring him to embrace another prosession; and he would
never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was an heretic, and would be damned; and this
might in the end ruin the poor sellow's principles, and
so turn him back again to his original idolatry.
However, a sudden thought relieved me in this
strait, and it was this; I told him, I could not say,
that I was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever; though a work, that to him was of more
value
•value than his lise, ought to me to be of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a seivant. But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would
by no means consent to part with me; and then to
force him to it, without his consent, would be a mani-
sest injustice; because I had promised I would never
put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me, that he would never leave me, unless I put him
away.
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood; and he should serve him for an inter-
preter; so he was much better satissied, and nothing
could persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to
convert them; but Providence gave another and very
happy turn to all this.
I come back now to the sirst part of his objections.
'When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all
together; and after some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
which they were sensible of, and very thanksul for; I
began to talk to them of the scandalous lise they led,
and gave them a sull account of the notice the clergy*
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a lise it was, I sirst asked them
if they were married men or batchelors ? They soon ex-
plained their condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men or batchelors. I asked them, with what conscience
they could take these women, and lie with them, as
they had done, call them their wives, and have so many
children by them, and not to be lawsully married to
them f
They all gave me the answer that I expected } viz.
that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives;
and to keep them, and own them, as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally
legally married as is they had been married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I tald them, that no doubt they were married in
the sight of God, and were bound in conscience to
keep them as their wives; but that th? iaws of men
being otherwise, they might pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor women and children here-
after; and that their wives being poor desolate wo-
men, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
help themselves^ { therefore told them, that unless I
was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did mould
be for the women and children, without them; and
tftat unless they would give some assurances that they
would marry the women, ] could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wife;
for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them, if they
went on thus
All this passed as I expected ; and they told me,
especially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the
rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they had
been born in theiv own native country, and would not
leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them,
and for their children, as any women could possibly do;
and they would not part with them on any account :—
And Will. Atkins, for his own particular, added, if any
man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and to make him captain of the best man of
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might
not carry his wise and children with hint; and if there
was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to
her now, with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was
not with me at that moment, but was not sar off:
So, to try him sarther, I told him 1 had a clergymaa
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: He said, as for himself, he
need not consider of it at all; for he was very ready to
do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he
believed they would be ail willing also. I then told
him, that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman,
and could not speak English; but that I would act the
clerk between them. He never to much as asked me
whether he was a papist or a protestant, which was in-
deed what I was afraid of; but 1 fay they never en-
quired about it.—So we parted. I went back to my
clergyman, and Will. Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to
fay any thing to them till the business was thoroughly
ripe; and I told him what answer the men had given
me.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me, they had been considering what I had
said; that they were very glad to hear I had a clergy-
man in my company; and they were very willing to
give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased; for they were far from
desiring to part from their wives; and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest, when they chose
them; so I appointed them to meet me the next morn-
ing; and that in the mean time they should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage-law, and that
it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to
oblige them, that they mould not forsake them; what-
ever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satissied with it,
as, inieed, they had reason to be; so they failed not
to attend all together, at my apartment, the next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman , and though
he had- not on a minister's gown after the manner
of' England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner
of France; yet having a black vest, something like a
cassock, with a fash round it, he did not look very un-
like a minister; and as for hit language, I was his in-
terpreter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and'
the scruples he made of marrying the women, because
they were not baptized, and prosesied Christians, gave
them an exceeding reverence for his person; and
there
there was no need after that to enquire whether he was
a clergyman or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been car-
ried so sar, as that he would not have married them at
all; nay- notwithstanding all I was able say to him,
he resisted me, though mouestiv, yet very steadily ; and
at last resused abiolutely to marry them, unless he had
sirst talked with the men, and the women too: and
though at sirst I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of
his design.
When he came to them, he let them know, that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the
present design; that he was very willing to perform
that part of his sunction, and m.irry them, as I had
desired; but that besore he could do it he must take the
liberty totaik with them. He told them, that in the
sight of all different men, and in the sense of the laws
of society, they had lived all this while in an open adul-
tery; and that it was true, that nothing but the con-
senting to marry, or effectually separating them from
one another now could put an end to it; but there was
a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian
matrimony, which he was not sully satissied about, viz.
that of marrying one that is a prosessed Christian, to a
savage, an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not bap-
tized; and yet that he did not see_. that there was time
left for it, to endeavour to persuade the women to be
baptized, or to prosess the name of Christ, whom they
had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which
they could not be baptized.
He told me, he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little know-
ledge of God, or his ways, and therefore he could not
expect that they had said much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
use their endeavours with their wives, to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages ; nor was
it
it consistent with the principles of the Christian re-
ligion; and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very faithsully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as 1 could, only sometime! adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them howjustitwas,
and how I was of his mind; and 1 always very faith-
sully distinguished between what 1 said from myself,
and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me, it was very true what the gentleman had said,
that they were but very indifserent Christians them-
selves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. Lord, Sir, CaysWill. Atkins, how should
we teach them rerigion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, Sir, said he, should we go to talk
to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
'twould but make them laugh at us, and ask us what
we beiieve ourselves f And if we should tell them, we
believe all the things that we speak of to them, such
as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they wouid ask us, where we intended to
go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked sellows, as indeed ws are? Why, Sir, said Will,
'tis enough to give them a surseit or religion at sirst
hearing. Fol:t* mull have some religion themselves
besore they prttend to teach other people. Will.
Atkins, said X to him, though 1 am afraid what you say
has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your
wise, that she is in the wrong f That there is a GoJ,
and a religio.i, better than her own; that her gods are
idols, that they can m ither hear nor speak; that there
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he has m^de; that he rewards the good,
and punishes the bad; that we are to be judged by him
at last, for all we do here: you are not so ignorant, but
even nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and 1 am satissied you know it all to be true, and believe
it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what face
can I fay any thing to my wise of all this, when she will
tell me immediately, it cannot be true!
Not
Not true, said I, what do you mean by that? Why
Sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be true, that this
God (I shall tell her of) can be just, or can punish, or
reward, since I am not punished, and sent to the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I
have been, even to her, and to every body else , and
that I should be suffered to live, that have been always
acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to
what I ought to have done.
Why truly, Atkins, said I, I am afraid thou speak est
too much truth; and with that I let the clergyman know
what Atkins had said; for he was impatient to know :-—
O '. said the priest, tell him there is one thing will
'make him the best minister in the world to his wise, and
that is repentance; for none teach repentance like true
penitents; he wants nothing, but to repent, and then
he will be so much the better qualisied to instruct his
^wise; he will then be able to tell her, that there is
not only a God, and thatheisthejustrewarder of good
and evil; but that he is a mercisul being, and, with in-
sinite goodness and long-suffering, forbears to punish
those that offend; waiting to be gracious, and willing
not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should re-
turn and live; that he often susfers wicked men to go
on a long time, and even reserves damnation to the gene-
ral day of retribution ; that it is a clear evidence of God,
and of a suture state, that righteous men receive not
their reward or wicked men their punishment, till they
come into another world; and this will lead him to teach
his wise the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last
judgment; let him but repent for himself, he will lie aa
excellent preacher of repentance to his wise.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious
all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it; when being eager,
and hardly suffering me to make an end; I knew all
this, master, says he, and a great deal more ; but I han't
the impudence to talk thus to my wise; when God,
and my own conscience knows, and my wise will be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if
I had never heard of a God, or a suture state, or any
thing about it; and to talk of my repenting, alas'(and
Tol. II. F with
with that he setched a deep sigh; and I could see that
tears stood in his eyes) 'tis pall all that with me. Past
it! Atkins, said I, What dost thou mean by that? I
know well enough what I mean, Sir, says he; I mean
'tis too late; and that is too true.
I told my clergyman, word for word, what he said;
the poor zealous priest (I must call him so; for be his
Opin on what it will, he had certainly a most singular
affection for the good of other mens fouls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I fay,
this zealous affectionate man) could not refrain tears
also; but, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him
but one question, Is he easy, that it is too late, or is he
troubled, and wishes it were not so? I put the question
fairly to Atkins ; and he answered with a great deal ot
passion, How could any man be easy in a condition that
certainly must end in eternal destruction? That he was
far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he be-
lieved it would one time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said,
he believed he should, one time or other, cut his own
throat to put an end to the terror of it.
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern
!n his face, when I told him all this; but, turning quick
to me upon it, said, if that be his case, you may assure
him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance ,
but pray, fays he, explain this to him, That as no man
is laved But by Christ, and the merit of his passion, pro-
curing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for
any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able
to sin beydnd the power or reach of divine mercy ? Pray
tell him, There may be a time when provoked mercy
will no longer strive, and when God may resuse to hear ,
but that 'tis never too late for men to ask mercy; and
we that are Christ's servants are commanded to preach
mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all
those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never too late to
j-epent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
timeliness; but it seemed as if he turned off the dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
Have seme talk with his wise; so he went out awhile
and
And we walked to the rest. I perceived they were all stu-
pidly ignorant, as t« matters of religion ; much as I was
when I went rambling away from my sather; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what
had been said, and all of them seriously promised, that*
they would talk with their wives about it, and to do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but,
at last, shaking his head, We that are Christ's servants,
fays he, can go no surther than to exhort and instruct \
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and pre-
mise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to
accept their good words; but, believe me, Sir, said he,
whatever you may have known of the lise of that man
you call William Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere
convert among them; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent; I won't despair of the rest; but that man is per-
sectly struck with the sense of his past lise; and I doubt
not, but when he comes to talk of religion to his wise,
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to
teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching our-
selves. I knew a man, added he, who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and profligate, to the last degree, in his lise,
made a thorough reformation in himself, and being
to convert a Jew; and if that poor Atkins begins but
once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wise, my lise
for it, he talks himself into a thorough convert, makes
himself a penitent; and who knows what may follow?
Upen this discourse however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married- the other three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in; after
this my clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone ; and, turning to me, says
he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here, and look: I dare say we shall sind this poor
man somewhere or other, talking seriously with his
wise, and teaching her already something of religion.
1 began to be of the same mind; so we went out toge-
ther; and I carried him a way which none knew but
F 4 myself,
myself, an 1 where the trees were so thick set, as that
it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves,
and sar harder to see in, than to see out; when coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and his tawny-
savage wise, sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse; 1 stopped short, till my clergyman
came up to me; and then, having shewed him where
they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a
good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens ; then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to
her,'to the woods, to the trees. Now, says my clergy-
man, you see my » ords are made good ; the man preaches
to her; mark him, now he is telling her that our God has
made him, and her, and tlie heavens, the earth, the
sea, the woods, the trees, &c, 1 believe he is, said I:
immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his
seet, sall down upon his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we suppose he said something, but we could not
hear him: it was too sar for that: he did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes andsits down again
by his wise, and talks to her again. We perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether she said any-
thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor sellow
was upon his knees, I could see the tears run plentisully
down my clergyman's cheeks: and I could hardly forbear-
myself; but it was a great asfliction to us both, that we
were not near enough to hear any thing that passed be-
tween them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for sear
of disturbing them: so we reiolved to see an end of
this peace of still conv ersation ; and it spoke loud enough
to us, without the help of voice: he lat down again, as
I have sa'd, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
her: and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately: another time we law him take out his
handkerchief, and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a kind of traniport very unutual: and after
several of hele things, we saw him on a ludden jump up
again, an.i knd i.e. his hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so
about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
St. Paul, St. Paul ! behold he prayeth : I was afraid At-
kins would hear him: therefore I intreated him to with-
hold himself a while, that we might see an end of the
scene, which to me, I must consess, was the moil affect-
ing, and yet the most agreeable, that ever I saw in m/
lise. Well, he strove with himself, and contained him-
self for a while, but was in such raptures of joy to think
that the poor heathen woman was become a christian,
that he was not able to contain himself: he wept several
times: then throwing up his hands, and crossing his
breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by way
of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of
the success of our endeavours: some he spoke softly,
and I could not well hear; others audibly, some in La-
tin, seme in French: then two or three times the tears
of joy would interrupt him, that he could not ipeak at
all. But I begged that he would compose himself, and
'let us more narro.vly and sully observe what was before
u , which he did for a time, and the scene was net ended
there yet; for, after the poor man and his wise were
risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talk-
ing still eagerly to her; and we observed by her mo-
tion that she was greatly affected with what he said, by
her frequent lifting up her hand , laying her hand to
her breast, and such other postures, as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention: this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away too: so that we could see no more of them in that
situation. ,
1 took this interval to talk with my clergyman: and
sirst, 1 told him, I was glad to see the particulars we
had both been witnesses to : that though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in- the man and
his wise, however ignorant they both might be: and I
hoped such a beginning would have yet a more happy
end: and who Knows, said I, but these two may in
time, by instruction and example- work upon some
of the others? Some of them! said he, turning quick
lie
ADVENTURES OF
upon me, ay, upon all of them; depen dupon it, is thoser
two savages (for he has been but little better, as you
relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never
1 eave till they work upon all the rest: for true religion is
naturally communicative; and he that is once made a
Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can
help it. I owned it was a most christian principle to
think so, and a testimony of a true zeal, as well as a
generous heart in him. But, my friend, said I, will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell
how to object the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern, which you shew for the turning the poor people
from their paganism to the christian religion. But how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your
account, out of the pale of the catholic church; without
which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteem these but heretics still; and for no other reasons
as effectually lost as the pagans themselves?
To this he answered with abundance of candour, and
christian charity, thus: Sir, I am a catholic of the
Roman church, and a priest of the order of St. Bene-
dict, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman
faith: but yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circum-
stances, and your civilities: I say, nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, with-
out some charity: I dare not say, though I know it-is
our opinion in general: yet, I dare not fay, that you
cannot be saved, will by no mean, limit the mercy of
Christ, so sar as to think that he cannot receive you into,
the bosom of his church, in a manner, to us, impar-
ceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know:
and I hope you have t ie fane charity for us: I pray
daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever methods he, who is all wife, is pleated to
direct. In the mean time, sure, you will allow it to
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish sar between
a protestant and a pagan: between one that calls on
Jesus Christ, though in away which I do not think is
according to the true saith: and a savage, a barbarian,
that knows no God, no Christ, no redeemer at all:
and if you are not within the pale of the catholic
church.
117
church, we hope you are nearer being restored to'it, than
those that know nothing at all of God, or his church:
I rejoice therefore, when I see this poor man, who, yOu
say, has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not fully enlightened; believing that God, from
whom every such work proceeds, will tensibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the surther knowledge of the
truth in his own time , and if God shall influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his
wise, I can rrjver believe that he shall be cast away him-
self and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any ara brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they
may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the
catholic church, just at the time when I may desire it;
leaving it to the goodness of Christ to persect his work:
in his own time, and his own way! Certainly I would
rejoice, if ali the savages in America were brought, like
this poor woman, to pray to God, though they were to
be all protestants at sirst, rather than they should continue
pagans and heathens; sirmly believing that he wiio had
bestowed that sirst light upon them, would sarther illu-
minate them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and
bring them into the pale os his church when he should
see good.
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
truly pious papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
power of his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might
ba all catholic christians whatever church, or particular
prosession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and, in a word, as he thought that the like charity would
make us all catholics, so I told him, I believed, had all
the members cf his church the like moderation they
would soon be all protestants: and there we left that
part, for we never disputed at all.
However, I talked to him another way, and, taking
him by the hand, my friend, said I, I wish all the
clergy of the Roman church were blessed with such mo-
deration, and an equal share of your charity; I am en-
tirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
F 4. shoul
should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would
nut you into the inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might do
in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the
better christians for that severity; for I am sure there is
no heresy in too much charity.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wise were gone, our
business there was over; so we went back our own
way ; and when we came back, we found them waiting
to be called in. Observing this, I aiked my clergyman
if we should discover to him that we had seen him un-
der the bush, or no; and it was his opinion we should
not; but that we should talk to him sirst, and hear what
he would say to us; so we called him in alone, no-
body being in the place but ourselves; and I begun with
him thus:
'Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you?
What was your father?
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my
father was a clergyman.
R. C. What education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir ; but I de-
spised all education, instruction, or correction, like a
beast as I was.
R. C. Itistrue, Solomon fay?, He that despiseth re-
proof is brutish.
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered
my father; for God's fake, Sir, talk no more about
that, Sir ; I murdered my poor father.
Priest. Ha1! a murderer !*
* Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it) and looked pale: It seems
he believed that Will had really killed his own
father.
R. C. No.no, Sir, I do not understand him so; Will
Atkins explain yourself; you did not kill your father,
did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No, Sir; I did not cut his throat ; but I cut
the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days;
J broke his heart by the most ungratesul unnatural re-
turn
turn for the most tender affectionate treatment that ever
father gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father, to
extort this consession-; I pray God give you repentance
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other sins;
but I asked you, because I see that though you have ret
much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are,
in things that are good; that you have known more of
religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the consession
hat I make about my father, conscience does; r.nd
whenever we come to look back upon our lives, ths
sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the first
that touch us; the wounds they make lie deepest; ar.d
the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind of
all the sins we can commit.
R. C. You talk too seelingly and sensible for me At-
kins ; I cannot bear it. ,
W. A. You bear it, master; I dare fay you knew
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I
may say, every tree in this island is witness to the an-
guish of my soul, for my ingratitude, and base usage of
a good tender father; a father much like your s, by
your description , and I murdered my father as well as
you, Will Atkins; but think, for all that, my repen-
tance is short ofyour'a too* by a great deal.
* I would have said more, if I could have restrained
my passions ; but I thought this poor man's repen-
tance was so much sincerer than mine, that I was
going to leave off the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that
instead of my going about to teach and instruct
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to
me, in a most surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me, Did I not say,
Sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach
to us all! I tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a
true pemtent, here will be no need of me ; he will make
5 F christian?
christian*- of all in theisland. But, having a little com*
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.
But, Will, said I, How comes the sense of this matter
to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very foul; I have been talking-
about God and religion to my wise, in order, as you
directed me, to make a christian of her; and she has
preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget
while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wise has preached to
you, but when you were moving religious arguments
to her, conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as it is not to be
resisted.
R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wise, for I know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account
©f it, I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue
to express it, but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can
tell you of it that I resolve to amend and reform my
lise.'
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin,
Will ? For this has been an extraordinary case that is
certain, she has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
W. A. Why, I sirst told her the nature of our laws
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men
and women were obliged to enter into such compact ,
as it was neither in the power of one or other to break,
that otherwise order and. justice could not be maintained,
and men would run from their wives, and abandon their
children, mix consusedly with one another, and neither
families, be kept entire, or inheritances be settled by a
legal descent.
R. C. You talklikea civilian, Will. Could ycu make
her understand what you meant by inheritance and sami-
lies? They know no such thing among the savages, but
marry any how, without any regard to relation, con-
sanguinity, or samily, brother and sister, nay, as I
have
have been told, even the sather and daughter, and the
son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are misinformed, and my
wise assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it,
perhaps, for any surther relations, the may not be so
exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch one
another in the near relation you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was
much better than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked
her, if she would be married to me our way? She
asked me, What way that was? I told her marriage
w as appointed of God; and here we had a strange talk
together, indeed, as ever man and wise had, I believe.
N. B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his
wise, as I took it down in writing, just after he told
it me, was as follows:
Wise. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God
in your country?
W. A. Yes, my dear, God is inevery country.
Wise. No your God in my country ; my country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unsit to shew you who Gdd
is; God is in heaven, and make the heaven and the
earth, the sea, and all that in them is.
Wise. No makee de earth; no you' God makee de
earth ; no make my country*.
* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wise. No laugh: Why laugh me? This no ting to
laughs.
t He was justly reproved by his wise; for she was
more serious than he at sirst.
W. A. That's true indeed , I will not laugh any more,
my dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God ma£e all?
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world,
and you, and me, and all things; for he is the only
F 6 true'
»3»
ADVENTU RES OF
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever in
heaven.
Wise. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
with any thing before, but have lived without God in
the world myself.
Wise. What have you de great God in you de country,
you no, know him? No say O to him? No good ting
for him ? That no impossible!
W. A. It is too true though for all that: we live as
if there was no God in heaven, or that he had no power
on earth.
Wise. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee
yeu good live?
W. A. It is all our own sault?
Wise. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will; why
he no makee kill when you no serve him? No say O to
him? No be good mans?
W. A. Thatis true; he might strike me dead, and I
ought to expect it; for I have been a wicked wretch,
that is true ; but God is mercisul, and does not deal with
us as we deserve.
Wise. But then, do not you tell God tankee for that
too?
W. A. No,.indeed: I have not thanked God for his
mercy, any more than I have seared God for his
power.
Wife. Then you God no God; me no think, believe
he be such one, great much power, strong; no makee
kill you, though you makee him mitch angry.
W. A. What! will my wicked lise hinder you from
believing in God ! What a dreadsul creature am I! And
what a sad truth is it that the horrid lives of christians
hinders the conversion of heathens.
Wise. How me tink you have great much God * up
there, and yet no do well, no do good ting i Can he tell?
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to heaven.
W. A.
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things: he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wise. What! he no hear you swear, curse, speak
the great damn?
W.* A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wise. Where be then the muchee great power
strong?
W. A. He is mercisul : that is all we can say for it;
and this proves him to be the true God: he is God, and
not man; and therefore we are not consumed*.
»Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with horror,
to think how he could tell his wise so clearly, that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts
'of the heart, and all that we do: and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done.
Wise. Mercisul! what you call dat?
W.A. He is our sather and maker; and he pitie*
and spares us.
Wise. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked: then he no good himself, or no
great able.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear: he is insinitely good,
and insinitely great, and able to punish too: and some-
times, to shew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly his
anger to destroy sinners, and make examples: many are
_cut off in their sins.
Wise. But no makee kill you yet: then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee you kill, so you make de bar-
gain with him, you do bad ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry at other mans?
W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions
upon his goodness: and he would be insinitely just, if he
destroyed me, as he has done other men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead?
What you say to him for that? You no tell him tankee
for a(l that too?
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungratesul dog, that
is true.
Wise.
Wise. Why he no makee you much goctd better? You
say lie makee you.
W. A. He'made me as he made all the world; 'tis
I have deformed myself, and abused his goodness, and
have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wise. I wish you makee Gwd know me: I no makee
him angry: I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to
heara poor untaught creature desire to be'taught ro
know God: and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could not say one word to her about God, but
what the reproach of his own carriage would make
most irrational to her believe: nay, that already
ftie could not believe in God, because he that was so
wicked was not destroyed.
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach
you to kn6w God, not God to know you: for he knows
you already, and every thought in your hea>t.
Wise. Why then he know what I say to you now:
he know me wish to know him: how shall me know who
makee me?
W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee: I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him:
aiid to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that, he said, he selldownon his knees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her
mind with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the
unworthy instrument of instructing her in the prin-
ciples of religion; after which he sat down by her
again; and their dialogue went on.
N. B. This was the time when we saw him kneel down
and lift up his hands.
Wise.
Wise. What you put down the knee for? What you
hold On the hand for? What you say ? Who you speak
to! What is that?
W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my
submission to him that made me: I said O to him, as
you call it, and as you say, your old men do to their
idol Benamuckee; that is, I pray to him.
Wise. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know him, and be accepted
by him.
Wise. Can he do that too?
W. A, Yes, he can; he can do all things.
Wise. But he no hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him : and promised
to hear us.
Wise. Bid you pray? When he bid you ? How he bid
you? What you hear hirn speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak: but he has
revealed himself many ways to us.
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand
that God had revealed himself to us by his word:
and what his word was: but at last he told it her
thus.
W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former
days, even from heaven, by plain words: and God
has inspired good men, by.his spirit: and they have
written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. Me no understand that: where is book?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this
book; but, I hope, I shall, one time or other, get it
for you to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection: but with
inexpressible grief, that he had not a bible.
Wise. But how you makee me know, that God teachee
them to write that book?
W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God.
Wise. What rule, what way you know?
W. A.
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
but what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
make us persectly good, as well as persectly happy;
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid all
that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its conse-
quences.
Wise. That me would understand, that me fain see:
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing,
he teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing, he
makee all thing, he give all thing; he hear me when I
fay O to him, as you go to do just now: he makee me
good, if I wish be good; he spare me, no makee kill
me, when I no be good; all this you fay he do; yes,
he be great God; me take, think, believe, him be
great God; me fay O to him too, with you, my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer^
but, raising her up, made her kneel by him: and he
prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge
of himself, b) his spirit: and that by some good provi-
dence, if possible, she might some time or other come
to have a bible, that she might read the word os God,
and be taught by him to know him.
This was the time that we saw him list her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after
this, too long to set down here:-and particularly she
made him promise, that since he consessed his owe
lise had been a wicked abominable course of provoca-
tion against God, that he would reform it, and not make
God angry any more, lest he should make him dead,
as she called it, and then-she should be left alone, and
never be taught to know this God better, and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men
should be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us
both, but particularly the young clergyman: he was
indeed wondersully surprised with it: but under the
greatest affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to
her : that he could not speaifc English to make her under-
'—..nd him : and as she spoke but very broken English
»J7
he could not understand her. However, he turned
himself tome, and told me, that he believed there-mull
be more to do with this woman than to marry her: I
did not understand him at sirst, but at length he explain-
ed himself: viz. That she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no: hold, sir, said he,
though I would have her baptised by all means, yet I
must observe, that Will Atkins, her husband, has, in-
deed, brought her :n a wondersul manner to be willing
to embrace a religious lise: and has given herjust ideas
of the being of aGcd, of his power, justice, and mercy:
yet 1 desire to know of him, if he has said any thing
to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners:
of the nature of faith in him, and the redemption by
him: of the holy spirit, the resurrection, the last judg-
ment, and a suture state.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: but the
poor fijllow sell immediately into tears, and told us,
he had said something to her of all those things, but
that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly
lise, that he trembled at the apprehensions, that her
knowledge of him should lessen the attention she should
give to tliose things, and make her rather contemn reli-
gion, than receive it: but he was assured, he said, that
her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of
all those things, that if I would but discourse with her,
she would make it appear to my satissaction, that my la-
bour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I cal'ed her in, and placing myself as
interpreter between my religious priest and the woman,
I intreated him to begin with her: but sure such a ser-
mon was never preached by a popish priest in these
latter ages or the world: and, as I told him, I thought
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the since-
rity of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman Ca-
tholic: and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the
Roman bishops were, before the church of Rome assum-
ed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.
In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him,
not
:3S
ADVENTURES OF
not with- wonder and astonishment omly, as she did the
sirst notions of a God, but with joy and saith, with an
affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce
to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her
own request she was baptized.
When he wa3 preparing to baptize her, I entreated him
that he would perform that office with some caution,
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very
religion which we were instructing the ether in. He
told me, that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor pro-
per things for the office, I should see he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a Ro-
man Catholic myself, if I had not known it before : and
so he did, for saying only feme words over to himself in
Latai, which I could not understand, he poured a whole
dish sull of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing
in French very loud, 'Mary; which was the rfame her
husband desired me to give her, for I was her godsather,
I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son
and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could know any
thing by it, wluit religion ho was of: he gave the bene-
diction afterwards in Latin ; but either Will Atkins did
not know but it was French, or else did not take notice
of it at 'that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them ; and after
the marriage was ever, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him,
not only to persevere in that good disposition he was in,
but to support the convictions that were upon him, by
a resolution to reform his lise; told him, it was ia
vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes;
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the know-
ledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
caresul he did not dishonour the grace of God; and
that, if he did, he would see the Heathen a better Chris-
tian than himself; the savage converted, and theinitra-
ment cast away.
He said a grrat many good thing* to them both, and
then recommended them, in a few words, to God's
goodness
goodness gave them the benediction again, I repeating
every thing to them in English: And thus Qnded the
ceremony. 1 think it was the most pleasant agreeable
day to me that ever I passed in my whole lise.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts
hung continually upon the conversion of the 37 savages;
and sain he would have staid upon the island to have
undertaken it; but I convinced him, First, that his un-
dertaking was inpracticable in itself; and 2dly, that
perhaps, I could put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to his satissaction ; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affair of the island to a nar-
row compass, I was preparing to go on board the sliip,
when the young man, whom I had taken out of the
samished ship's company, came to me, and told me, he
understood I had a clergyman with me; and that I had
caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages,
whom they called wives; that he had a match too,
which he desired might be sinished before I went, be-
tween two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be
disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christian wo-
man on the island; so I began to persuade him not to do
any thing of that kind rafnly, or because he sound him-
self in this solitary circumstance: I represented, that he
had some considerable substance in world, and good
friends, as I understood by- himself, and by his maid
also; that the maid was not only poor, and a servant,
but was unequal to him, she being z5 or 27 years old;
and he not above 17 or 18, that he might, very pro-
bably, with my assistance, make a remove from this
wilderness, and come into his1 own country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to cne but he would
repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say
more, but he interrupted me, fmilihg, and told me,
with a great deal os modesty, that I mistook in my
guesses, that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts,
his present circumstances being melancholy and discon-
solate enough, and he was very glad to hear, that I had
thoughts of putting them in a way to see their own-
country
>4fl
ADVENTURES OF
country again, and that nothing should have set hint
upon staying there, but that the voyage I was going was
so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him
quite out of the reach of all his friends, that he had
nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was, give
him a servant or two, and some sew necessaries, and
he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting the
good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would
redeem him, and hoped I would not be unmindsul of
him when I came to England, that he would give me
some letters to his friends in London, to let them know
how good I had been to him, and what part of the
world, and what circustances I had left him in: and
he promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and all the improvements he had made upon
it, let the value be what it would, should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because
he told me positively the match was not for himself.
I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived to
come sase to England, I would deliver his letters, and
do his business effectually, and that he might depend I.
would never forget the circumstances I left him in, but
still I was impatient to know who was the person to be
married: Upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all
Trades, and his maid Susan.
1 was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match, scr, indeed, I had thought it very suitable.
The character os thit man I have given already ; and
as for the maid, she wes a very honest, modest, sober,
and religious young woman, had a very good mare of
sense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very
handsomely, and to the purpose; always with decency
and good manners, and not backward to speak when
any thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak
when it was not her business ;very handy and house-
wisely in any thing that was before her: an excellent
manager, and sit indeed to have been governess to the
whole island ; she knew very well how to behave herself
to all kind of folks she had about her, and to better, if
&e had found any there.
The
The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them them the Tame day, and, as I was sather at the
altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion, for I appointed her and her husband a hand-
some large space of ground for their plantation, and,
indeed, this match, and the proposal the young gentle-
man made to me, to give him a small property in the
island, put me upon parcelling it out among them, that
they might not quarrel afterwards about theirsituation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will At-
kins, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave
managing sellow; persectly reformed, exceeding pious
and religious ; and, as sar as I may be allowed to speak
positively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true,
sincere penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every
one's satissaction, that they only desired one general
writing under my hand for the whole; which I caused
to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the bounds and situation of every man's planta-
tion, and testifying, that I gave them thereby, several-
ly, a right to the whole possession and inheritance of
the respective plantations of sarms, with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs; reserving all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation, after eleven years, if I or
any one from me, orin my name, came to demand it,
producing an attested copy of the same writing.
As to government and laws among them, I told
them, I was net capable of giving them better rules
than they were able to giv» themselves: only made
them promise me, to live in love and good neighbour-
hood with one another: And so I prepared to leave
them.
'One thing I must not omit: and that is, that being
now settled in a kind of common wealth among them-
selves, and living much bulinels in hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of
the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed : for,
excepting the_providing themselves foed, which they had
difficulty enough in lomeumes, i iey had no man-
ner os business or property to manage. I proposed there
fore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them
with Friday's sather and propose to th~m to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several samilies as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute Haves, for I would
not admit them to make them slaves by force, by any
means, because they had their liberty given by capitu-
lation, and, as it were articles of surrender, which they
ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheersully along with him , so we allotted them
land, and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several samilies we had settled , and thus my colony was
in a manner settled, as follows: the Spaniards possessed
my original habitation, which was the capital city, and.
extended their plantation all along the side of the brook,
which made the creek that I have so often described, as
sar as my bower, and as they increased their culture,
it went always eastward ; the English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward, and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a
.great addition of land to take in, if they found occasion,
so that they need not joitle one another for want of
room.
All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there,
only for their usual customary barbarities, they might
come and go ; is they disturbed nobody, nobody would
disturb them : and no doubt but they were often ashore,
and went away again: for I never heard that the plant-
ers were ever attacked and disturbed any more.
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to
my friend the clergyman, that the work of converting
the savages might, perhaps, be set on foot in his ab-
sence, to his satissaction: and I told l^jm, that now I
thought it was put in a sair way: for the savages being
thus divided among the Christians, if they would but
every one of them do their part with those which came
under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good
effect.
2 He
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their part; but how, says he, how shall we obtain that of
them? I told him, we would call them all together,
and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one
by one, which he thought best; so we divided it; he
to speak to the Spaniards who where all papists ; and I
to the English who were all protestants; and we recom-
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise,
that they would never make any distinction of papist
or protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ: and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have
any differences or disputes, one with another, about
religion. *
When I came to Will Atkin's house, (I may call it so,
for such a house, or such a'piece of basket-work, I be-
lieve was not standing in the world again !)I fay, when
I came thither, I found the young woman I have men-
tioned above, and Will Atkins's wise, were become
intimates, and this prudent, religious, young woman,
had persected the work Will Atkin's had begun : and
though it was not above four days after what I have
related, yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her, in all my observation, or conversation in the
world.
Itcame next into my mind, in the morning, before I
went to them, that among all the needsul things I had
to leave with them, I had not left a bible : in which I .
shewed myself less considering for them, than my good
friend the widow was for me, when she sent me the
cargo of i00I. from Lisbon, where she packed up three
bibles and a prayer-book. However., the good woman's
charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined,
for they were reser- ed for the comfort and instruction
of those that made much better use of them than I had
done.
I took one of the bibles in my pocket, and when
I came to William Atkins's tent or house, I found
the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wise, had
been discoursing of religion together; (for William At-
kins
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle for his aflistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the
present occasion, though she had one: and so had the
youth on board our ship, among the goods, which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so
many things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling
one story more of her and myself, which has something
in it very informing and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young wo-
man was reduced; how her mistress was starved to death
and did die, on board that unhappy ship we met at sea;
and how the whole (hip's company being reduced to the
last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
maid, were sirst hardly used, as to provisions; and, at
last, totally neglected and starved , that Is to say, brought
to the last extremity of hunger.
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extre-
mities they susfered, I asked her, if she could describe.,
by what she selt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and she
told her tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir, said she, we had for some days fared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now.,
at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, ex-
cept sugar, and a little wine, and a little water. The
first day after I had received no food at all, I found my-
self, towards evening, sirst empty and sickish at my sto-
mach ; and nearer night, mightily inclined to yawning
and fleefy; I laid down on a couch, in the great cabin,
to sleep; and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay
down; after being about three hours awal.-e, it being
about sive o'clock in the morning, I found myself emp-
ty, and my stomach sickish again, and laid down again;
but could not sleep at all, being very saint and ill; and
thus I continued all the second day, with a strange va-
riety, sirst hungry, then sick again, with Teachings to
vomit; the second night, being obliged to go to bed
againi without any food more than a draught of sair
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barba-
does, and that the market was mightily stocked with
provisions;
»47
provisions; that I bought some for my mistress, an4
went and dined very heartily.
I thought my stomach was full after this, as it would
have been after, or at, a good dinner; but when I wak-
ed, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to sind myself
in the extremity of famine : the last glass of wine we had;
I drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being no
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise
disagreable sumes from the stomach into the head; and I
lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
for some time.
The third day in the morning, aftera night of strange
and consused inconsistant dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, I awaked, ravenous and surious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned, and
conquered it, I fay, I question whether, if I had been a.
mother, and had a little child with me, its lise would
have been sase, or no.
This lasted about three hours; during which time
I was twice raging mad, as any creature in Bedlam, as
my young master told me, and as he can now insorm
you.
In one of these sits of lunacy, or distraction, whether
by the motion of the ship, or some slip of my foot, I
know not; I sell down, and struck my face against the
corner of a pallet bed, in which my mistress lay; and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose ; and
the cabin boy bringing me a little bason, I fat down, and
bled into it a great deal; and as the blood ran from me,
I came to myself: and the violence of the flame, or the
sever I was in, abated, and so did the ravenous part of
the hunger.
Then I grew sick, and reached to vomit, but could
not; for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up; after
I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believ-
ed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, and
then had a most dreadsul pain in my stomach, not to be
for food; and, towards night, it went off with a ki- 1
of earnest wishing or longing for food; som
described , not like the cholic, but

3f*
ADVENTVRIS OF
something like, as 1 suppose, the longing of a woman
with child. I took another draught of water, with su-
gar in it, but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought
it all up again ; then I took a draught of water, with-
out sugar, and that stayed with me; and laid me Jown
upon the bed, praying most heartily, that it would please
God to take me away ; and composing my mind in hopes
of it, I flumbered awhile; and then waking, thought my
self dying, being light with vapours from an empty sto-
mach, 1 recommended rev soul to God, and earnestly
wished that somebody would throw me into the sea.
All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought expiring ; but bore it with much more patience
than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had to her
child, my young master, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved
his lise.
Towards the morning, I slept again ; and sirst, when I
after that, had a second sit of violent hunger, so that I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadsul condition: had
ray mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am
certain, I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as
much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh
of any creature appointed for food; and once, or twice,
I was going to bite my own arm. At last j I saw the
bason, in which was the blood 1 had bled at my nose
the day before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such
haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered
nobody had taken it before, and afraid it should be
taken from me now.
Though after it was down, the thoughts of it silled
me with horror, ye it checked the sit of hunger; and
1 drank a draught of fair water, and was composed and
refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth
day, and thus I held it till towards night, when, within
the compass of three hours, I had all these several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another; viz. sick,
sleepy, eagerly, hungry, pain in the stomack, then ra-
"ious again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying,
i-.ivenous again, and so every quarter of an hour;
y strength wasted exceedingly. At night I laid
me
awaked, I sell into a violent

Hie- down, having, no comfort, but in the hope that I
should die before morning.
All this night I had no fleep, but the hunger was now
turned into disease; and I had a terrible cholic and
griping; wind, instead of food, having found its way
into the bowels; and in this condition I lay till morn-
ing, when I was surprised a little with the cries and la-
mentations of my young master, who called out to me,
that his mother was dead. I listed myself up a little,
- for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not
dead, though she was able to give very little signs of lise.
I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want
of some sustenance, that I cannot describe them , with
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite,- that no-
thing but the- tortures of death can imitate: and this
condition I was in, when I heard the seaman above cry
out, A sail, a sail, and halloo and jump about as if they
were distracted.
I was notable to get off from the bed, and my mis-
tress much less; and my master was so sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; so we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that oc-
casioned such a tombustion; nor had we any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for two days, they having
told us they had not a mouthsul of any thing to eat in
the ship ; and they told us afterwards, they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadsul condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our lives: and how you found us,
Sir, you know as well as I, and better too.
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct ac-
count of starving to death, as I consess, I never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true^account, because the
youth gave me an account os a good part of it; though
I must own, not so distinct, and so seelingly, as his
maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his mother
sed him at the price of her own lise: but the poor-
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman
too, she might struggle harder with it: I say, the poor
maid might be supposed to seel the extremity something
G 3 sooner
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bits something longer than she parted with any to
relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here relat-
ed, if our ship, or some other, had not so providenti-
ally met them, a sew days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their case stood, would have
lerved them but a little while, they being 500 leagues
from any land: or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened; but this is by
tiie way. I return to my disposition of things among
the people.
And sirst, it is to be observed here, that, for many
reasons, I did not think sit to let them know any thing
of the stoop I had framed, and which I thought of setting
up among them : for I found, at least at my sirst coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and lest it among them, they
would, upon very light disgust, have separated, and
gone away from one another; or perhaps, have turned
pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead
os a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intend-
ed it to be; nor did 1 leave the two pieces of brass can-
non that I had on board, or the two quarter deck guns,
that my nephew took extraordinary, for the same rea-
son: 1 thought they had enough to qualify them for a
desensive war against any that should invadelhem; but
I was not to set them up for an offensive war, or to en-
courage them to go abroad to attack others, which in
theend,would only bring ruin and destruction upon them-
selves and all their undertakings; I reserved the stoop,
therefore, and the guns, for their service another way,
as I shall observe in its place.
I have now done with the island: I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again the 5 th day of May, hav-
ing been sive and twenty days among them; and, as
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came
to remove them, I promised to send some surther relief
from the Brasils, if I could possibly sind an opportunity:
and particularly, I promised to send them some cattle:
such as sheep, hogs, and cows: for, as to the two
cows,
Robinson crusoe.
tows and calves, which I brought from England, we had
been obliged, by the length cf our voyage, to kill them
at sea, for want of hay to seed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of sive guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints,
in the Brasils, in about 22 days: meeting nothing re-
markable in our passage, but this, that about three days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong totheN.N. E. running, as it were, into a bay
or gulph, on the land side, we were driven something
out of our course ; and once or twice our men cried, land
to the westward: but whether it was the continent or
islands, we could not tell by any means.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth,
and the weather calm, wesaw the sea, as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very black,
not being able to discover what it was: but, after some
time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little
way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out,
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant
by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the sel-
low a fool, or some such word: Nay, Sir, says he,
don't be angry, for it is an army, and a fleet too: for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, and they arc coming towards us too,
apace, and full of men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew the captain: for he had heard such terrible sto-
ries of them in the island, and having never been in
those seas before, that he could not tell what to think of
it, but said two or three times, we shall all be devour-
ed. I must consess, considering we were becalmed, and
the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the
worse: however, I bade him not be afraid, but bring
the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as so
know that we must engage them.
The^weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us . sol gave orderp to come to an anchor,and
surl all our fails. As for the savages, I told them, they
had nothing to sear from them but sire: and therefore
they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one
close by the head, and the other, by the stern, and rr
G4
them both well, and wait the issue in that posture i
this I did,'that the men in the boats might be ready »
with sheet and buckets, to put out any sire there sa-
vages might endeavour to six upon the outside of the
ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little
while they came up with us, but never was such a hor-
rid sight seen by Christians: my mate was much mis-
taken in his calculation of their number, I mean of a
thousand canoes; the most we could make of them
when they came up, being about i26 ; and a great many
of them too; for some of them had i6 or i7 men in-
them, some more, and the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which
they had, doubtless, never seen before; nor could they,
at sirst, as we afterwards understood, know what to make
of us. They came boldly up however, very near to us,
and seemed to go about to row round us: but we called to
our men in-the boats, not to let them come too near them.
. This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it: for sive or six of their
large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back;
which they understood very well, and went back i but
at their retreat about 500 arrows came on board us
from those boats; and one of our men in the long boat
was very much wounded.
However, I called to them not to sire by any means;
but we handed down some deal boards into the boat,
and the carpenter presently set up a kind of a sence-,
like waste boards,- to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should moot again. -
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a
body astern of us, and pretty near, so near that we could
easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design. I easily found they were some of my old
friends, the fame sort of savages that 1 had been- used
to engage with; and in a little time more they rowed
somewhat farther out to sea, till they came directly
i—---iside with us, and then rowed down strait upon us,
ame so near, that they could hear us speak;
upoa
k
slpon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns
ready; but, being so near as to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant;
which accordingly he did: whether they understood
'him or not,-that I knew not; but, as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost,
or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from us; and,
stooping down, shewed us their naked backsides; just
as 'f, in English, (saving your presence) they had bid us
kiss——; whether this was a desiance or challenge,
we know not; or whether it was done in mere con-
tempt, or a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday
cried out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily
for him (poor sellow) they let fly about 3000s their ar-
rows ; and to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor sel-
low was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky marksmen
they were. ^
I was so emaged with the loss of my old servant, the j
companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I'
immediately ordered sive guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great; and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before to be
siire.
They were not above half a cable's length off when
we sired ; and our gunners took their aim so well that
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had rea-
son to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of-turning tip their bare backsides
to us gave us no great offence ; neither did I know for
certain whether that, which would pass for the.greatest
contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in return, I had only resolved to have
sired four or sive guns with powder only, which I knew
would fright them susficiently : but when they shot at us
directly with all the sury they were capable of, and
especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so;
entirely lovedand valued, and who, indied, so well de-
served it; I not oBly had been justisied before God and
G 5 msn
man, but would have been very glad, if I could to have
overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of
them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many
we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such a fright
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude:
there Were i3 or i4 of their canoes split, and overset,
in all; and the men all set a swimming; the rest,
frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they
Could, taking but little care to save those whose boats
were split or spoiled with our mot: so I suppose that
•here were many of themlost ; and our men took up one
poor sellow swimming for his lise, above an hour after
they were all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many: but, in short, we never knew any
thing how it went with them : for they fled so fast, that,
in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above
three or four straggling canoes ; nor did we ever see the
rest any more: for a breeze of wind springing up the
same evening, we weighed and set sail for the Brasils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so
sullen, that he would neither eat or speak: and we all
fancied he would starve himself to death : but I took a
way to cure him: for I made them take him, and turn
him into the long boat, and make him believe they would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do,
but they really did throw him into sea, and came away
from him: and then he followed them, for he swam
like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, tho' they
knew not one word of what he said. However, at last
they took him in again, and then he began to be more
tractable : nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again: but I was the most
disconsolate creatture alive, for want of my man Friday,
and would have been very glad to have gone back to
the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence
for my occasion, but it could not be; so we went on:
we had one prisoner, as I have said ; and it was a long
while before we could make him understand any thing;
but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he
began
began to be a little tractable: afterwards we enquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said; for his speech was ib odd, all guttu-
rals, and spoken in the throat, in such an hollow and
odd manner, that we could never form a word from
him; and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well, if they were gagged, as other-
wise; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate; but form-
ed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune,
with an open throat: he told us however, some time
after, when we had taught him to speak a.
English, little that they were going, with their kings,
to sight a great battle. When he said kings, we asked
him how many kings? He said, there were sive na-
tion, (we could not make him understand the plural S)
and that- they all joined to go against two nation. We
asked him, What made them come up to us i He said,
To makee te great wonder look: where it is Wf be ob-
served, that all those natives,';as also those of Africa,
when they learn English, they Jiways add two E's at
the end of the words where we use one, and place the
accent upon the last of them; as makee, takee, and
the like; and we could not break them of it; nay, I
could hardly make Friday leave it osf, though at last he
did.
And now I name the poor sellow once more, I
must take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all decency and solemnity possi»
ble, by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to sire eleven guns for
him: and so ended the lise of the most gratesul, saith-
sul, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man
had.
We now went away with a sair wind for Brasil,
and, and in about twelve days time, we made land in the
latitude of sive degrees south of the line, being the
north eastermost land of all that part of America. We
kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore, four days,
when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
G 6 place
place of my deliverance, from whence came1 botH my
good and evil sate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less busi-
ness than I had ; and yet it was with great difficulty tha,t
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence orv
shore : not my partner himself, who was alive, and made
a great sigure among them; not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation in the
island, could obtain me that savour: but my partner,
remembering that I had given sive hundred moidores to
the prior of the monastry of the Augustines, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the mo-
nastry, and obliged the prior chat then was, to go to the
governor, and beg leave for me presently, with the cap-
tain, and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on
shore, and no more ; and this upon condition absolutely
capitulated for, that we should not osfer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away with-
out licence. t.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore
three bales of English goods, such as sine broad cloths,
stusfs, and some linen, whkh I had bought for a present
to my partner.
He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though
(like me) he came from little at sirst; and' though he
knew not that I had the kast design of giving him any
thing,- he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moldores, in-
cluding.fome tobacco, and three or four sine medals
in gold. But I was even with him in my present,
which, as I have skid, consisted of sine broad cloth,
English stuffs, lace and sind Hollands. Also I deli-
vered him about the value of 100I. sterling, in the
same goods, sor other uses; and I obliged him to set
up the stoop which I had brought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in or-
der to send the refreshments I intended to my planta-
tion.
Accordingly he pot hands, and sinished the sloop in
a very sew days, for.she was already framed, and I gave
the' master of her such instructions as he could not mis
the,
the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an account from
my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the
small cargo I had sent them; and one of our seamen,
that had been on shore with me there, osfered to go with
the floop, and settle there, upon my letter to the go*
vernor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity of
land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes>
and tools for his planting work, which, he said, he un-
derstood, having been an old planter in Maryland, and a
buccaneerinto the bargain.
I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired;
and, as. an addition, I gave him the sayage which we
had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered
the governor Spaniard to grve him his share of every
thing he wanted with the rest.
When we came to sit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest sellow, a Bra-
sil planter of his acquaintance, who had sallen into the
displeasure of the church ; I know not what the mat-
ter is with him, says he; but, on my conscience, I
think he is an heretic in his heart; and he has been
obliged to conceal himself for sear of the inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to.the island, and allot them
a plantation, he would give them a small stock tol be-
gin with; for the officers of the inquisition had seized
all his effects and estate, and he b«l*nothing left but a
little household stuff, and two slaves; and, adds he,
though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
sall into their hands, for he will assuredly be burnt alive if
he does.
I granted thi1= presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wife
and daughters, on board one ship, till the floop
put out to goto sea; and then (having put all their
goods on board the sloop some .time besore) we put'
them on board the floop, after she was got out of the
bay. , '• •
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was much alike rich
in tools, in preparations, for a farm; bTSt nothing to
begin}
begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials
for planting sugar canes, with some plants of canes;
which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood very
well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this floop, three milch
cows, and sive calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone-
horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go; and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but I remembered, that the poor
persecuted men had two daughters, and there were but
sive of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived sase, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were
now (with this addition) between sixty and seventy
people, besides little children; of which there were a
great many: I found letters at London from them, all
by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brasils by this stoop , of which I shall
take some notice in its place.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of
discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not
cooled by almost forty years misery and disappointments;
not satissied with prosperity beyond expectation; not
made cautions by affliction and distress beyond imita-
tion.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than
a man at sull liberty, #nd having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve
him. Had I taken a small vessel from England and
went directly to the island; had I loaded her; as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the planta-
tion, and for my people, took a patent from the govern-
ment here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, I miththave
obtained; had I carried over cannon and amniunition,
servants, and people to plant, and, taking possession of
the place, fortisied and strengthened it in the name of
England, and encreased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had 1 then settled myself there, ana sent the
ship back, loaded with good rice, as I might also have
done in six months time, and ordered my friends to
have sitted her out again for our supply; had I done
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense ; but I was possessed with a wan-
dering spiritsscorned all advantages, pleased myself with-
being the patron of these people I had placed there,
and doing for them in a kind of haughty majestic way,
like an bid patriarchal monarch ; providing for them, as
if I had been father of the whole family, as well as of the
plantation: but I never so much as pretended to plant in
the name of any government or nation, or to acknow-
ledge any prince, or to call my people subjects, to any one
nation more than another : nay, I never so much as gave
the place a name; but left it as I found it, belonging to
no man; and the people under no discipline or govern-
ment but my own ; who, though 1 had an influence over
them as father and benefactor, had no authority or power
to act or command one way or other, farther than vo-
luntary consent moved them to comply: yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough ; but
as I rambled from them, and came thither no more, the
last letters I had from any of them, were by my part-
ner's means, who afterwards sent another stoop to the
place; and who sent me word, though I had not the
letter till sive years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malecontent with their long stay
there ; that Will Atkins was dead; that sive of the Spa-
niards were/rome away; and that though they had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had some
skirmishes with them; that they begged of him to write *
to me, to think of the promise I had made to setch them
away, that they might see their own country again be-
fore they died.
''' But
But T was gone a wild goose chase indeed ; and they
who will have any more of me, must be content to
follow me through a new variety of follies, hard-
ships, and wild adventures; wherein the justice of
Providence may be duly observed, and we may see
how easily heaven can gorge us with our own desires,
make the strongest of our wishes to be our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things
which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be
allowed in.
Let no wise man slatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was able to chuse any parti-
cular station of lise for himself. Man is a short-sighted
creature, sees but a very little way before him; and as
his passions are none of his best friends, so hi/ particular
asfections are generally his worst counsellors.
I say this, with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth, to wander into the world; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this principle was preserved in me
for my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the.
circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give
you historically, and with its utmost variety qf particu-
lars. But the secret ends of Divine Providence, in thus
permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own
desires, are only to be understood of those who can listen
to the voice of Providence, and draw religions conse-
quences from God's justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, had I business, or no business, away I went:
it is no time now to enlarge any sarthei*upon the rea-
son or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to
the history, I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went
I shall only add here, that my honest and truly pidni
clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go to
Lisbon, he asked npe leave to go thither ; being still, as
he observed, bound never to sinish any voyage he be-
gan ; how happy had it been for me, if I had gone with
him.
But it was too late now : all things heaven appoints
are best; had I gone with him, 1 had never had so many
things to be thanksul for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the travels and adventures of Robinson
Crusoe;
Crusoe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brasils we made directly away over the At-
lantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable
good voyage, oar course generally south-east : now and
then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my dis-
asters at sea were at the end , my suture rubs and cros»
events were to befal me on shore ; ithat it might appear,
the land was as well prepared to be ourfcourage, as the
sea; when heaven, who directs the circumstences of
things, pleases to appoint it to be so.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and ITad a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after
she arrive;! at the Cape: only being limited to certain
number of days, for stay, by charter-party, at the
several ports she was to go to; this was none of my bu-
siness, neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew
the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things
between them as they thought sit.
We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was need-
ful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way
for the coast of Coromande; we were indeed insormed,
that a French man of war of sifty guns, and two large
merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies: and, as I
knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them; but they went their own way, and we
heard no more of them. ,
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyages, varia-
tions of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade-
winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as almost afl
the histories of long navigation are sull of, and which *
make the reading tiresome enough: and are persectly
unprositable to all that read, except only to those who
are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our pasting
from one to another. We touched sirst at the istand of
Madagascar : where,tho' the people are sierce and treach-
erous, and in particular, very well armed with lances and
bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we
we sared very well with them awhile; they treated os
very civilly; and for some trisles which we gave them,
such as knives, scissars, &c. they brought us u good sat
bullocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh; which
we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to sait for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here for some time, after we t
had surnished ourselves with provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every nook of the
world wherever I came, was forgoing on shore as osten
as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we
went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about
us, and stood gazing at us, at a distance: as we had tra-
ded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three bows out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a
mark in the country, not only of truce and friendship,
but, when it is accepted, the other side set up three
poles, or bows, also; which is a signal that they accept
the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the
truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they come past your three poles
or boughs toward you; so that you are persectly secure
within the three poles; and all the space between your
poles and theirs, is allowed like a market, for free con-
verse, traffick, and commerce. When you go thither,
you must not carry your weapons with you; and if they
come into that space, they stick up their javelins and
lances,all at the sirst poles, and come on unarmed; but
if any violence is osFered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore,
that a greater number of their people came down
than usual, but was all ver) friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satissied them with such toys as we had;
their women also brought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
»«d we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of
trees, and lay on the shore all that night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so
well satissied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat ly-
ing at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on shore; and getting some boughs of tree«
to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bot-
tom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of
the branches of the trees, all night.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our
men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, sot
God's fake, to bring the boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murdered ; at the fame
time I heard the siring of sive musquets, which was the
number of the guns they had, and that three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frighted
with guns as the savages were in America, where I had
to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter ; but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I
caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three susils we had on board, to land, and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the more : but our men
were in too much haste: for, being come to the shore,
they plunged into the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between
three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all
and only sive of them had susils with them: the rest, in-
deed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small use
to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being .very ill wounded : .and
that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on shore : for they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain to barri-
cade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two
or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction,
we had, by mere accident, or providence rather, in die
boat.
Aai
And yet, had it been day-light, they are, it seemsy
suth exact marksmen, that if they could have seen but
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us: we had, by the light of the moon, a little sighr
ef them,'as they stood pelting us from the shore withs
darts and arrows; and, having got ready our sire-arms,
we gave them a volley; and we could hear by the cries
of some of them, that we had wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore till
break of day, which we suppose was, that they might
see the better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to-
weigh our anchor, or set up our fail, because we muft
needs stand up in the • boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot;
we made signals of distress to the ship, which, though-
Ihe rode a league off, yet my nephew the captain,
hearing our siring, and, by glasses, perceiving the pos-
ture we lay in, and that we sired towards the shore,
pretty well understood us; and weighing anchor with
all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with
the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands
in her, to aflist us; but we called to them net to come
too near, telling them what condition We were in ; how-
ever, they stood in nearer to us: and one of the
men, taking the end of a tow-line in. his hand, and
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that
they could not persectly see him, swam on board us,-
and made the line fast to the boat; upon which we
flipt our little cable, and leaving our anchor behind,
they towed us out of the reach of the; arrows, we all
the. while lying close behfind the barricado we had
made
As soon as we-Were got from between the ship and
the so ore, that she could lay her side to the soore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside among
them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,
and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a ter-
rible havock among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we.
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray::
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in
. I those.
those parts, put me upon it; for he said, he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us, aster we
-had made a truce, if we had not done something to pro-
voke them to it; at length it came out, viz. that an
old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had
brought it within our poles, with a young woman with
her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while
the old woman, whether she was mother to the young
woman or no, they could not tell) was selling us
the milk, one of pur men ofsered some rudeness to the
wench that was with her : at which the old woman made
a great noise. However, the seaman would not quit
his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark: the old woman,
went away without her, and, as we suppose, made an
outcry among the people she came from: who, upon
notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four
.hours: and it was great odds but we had been all de-
stroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was
thrown at him, just at the beginning of the attack, as
Jxe sallied out of the tent we had made: the rest came
off free, all but the sellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mis-
tress, for we could not hear what became of him a
great while: we lay upon the shore two days aster,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him;
made our boat fail up more, and down-shore, several
leagues^ but in vain: so we were obliged to give him
over: and if he alone had sufsered for it, the loss had
been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without ventur-
ing on shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them: it was the third night after the action,
that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indian side : I was caresul to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again.: but I ought
indeed, to have been sure, that the men I went with,
had been under my command, before I engaged in a
thing Jo hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought
into it without my knowledge or desire.
Wo
We took twenty stout sellows with us as any in the
(hip, besides the supercargo and myself; and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the fame place where
the Indians stood drawn up the evening before; I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to
see if they had quitted the sield, and if they had left
any marks behind them, or of the mischief we had
done them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or
two of them, perhaps we might get out man again, by
way of exchangel
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain com-
manded one, and I the other: We neither could hear
nor see any body stir when we landed; so we marched
.up-, one body at a distance from the other, to the
sield of battle: At sirst we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by and by, our boatswain, that led the
sirst party, stumbled and sell over a dead body: This
made them halt there awhile, for knowing by the cir-
cumstances, that they were at the place where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
we' knew would be in less than an hour; and then
we would -easily discern the havock we had made a-
mong them: We told two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had
an- arm, and some a leg, shot off; and one his head:
those that were wounded, we supposed they had car*
ried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a sull discovery
of all we could come at the knowledge of, I was for
going on board again , but the boatswain and his party
often sent me word, that they were resolved to make a
visit to the Imdian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt; and desired me to go along with
them; and if they could sind them, as they still fancied
they should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a
good booty; and it might be, they might sind Thomas
JefFrys there ; that was the man's name we had lost.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing it
was
twas not a hazard sit for us to run, who had a ship,
.and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were re-
solved to go, and only asked me and my company to
go along with them, I positively resused it, and rose
up (for I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to
the boat; one or two of the men began to importune
.me to go; and when I still resused positively, began
to grumble, and say they were not under my command,
and they would go. Come, Jack, says one of the men,
.will you go with me? I will go for one. Jack said he
would ; and another followed, and then another ; and,
,in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difsiculty too, I persuaded to stay; so the Supercargo
.and 1, with one man, went back to the boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
.take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them wouhfcrun the sate .of Thomas
Jeffrys.
They told me, like seamen, the'yd warrant it they
.Would come off again; and they would take care, .&c.
So away they went. I entreated them to consider the
ship, and the voyage; that their lives were not their
:own; and that they were Entrusted with the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship
might be lost for the want of their help ; and that they
xould not answer it to God and man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well
have talked to the main-mast of the ship; they were
mad upon their journey; only they gave me good
words, and begged I would not be angry; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but
they would be back again in about an hour at sarthest;
for the Indian town, they said, was not above half a
mile off: though they found it above two miles before
they got to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
attempt was desperate, and such, as none tut madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their due,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
2' gallantly
gallantly armed, that is true: for they had every -man a
fusil or mufquet, a bayonet, and every man a pistol:
some of them had broad cutlaces, some of them hangers;
and the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes-: be-_
sides all which they toad among them i3 hand-grena-
does. Bolder sellows, and better provided, never went
about any wicked work in the world.
When they went out, their chief design was plunder , -
and they were in mighty hopes of sinding gold there:
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware of,
set them on sire with revenge, and made devils of them
all^ when they came to -the sew Indian houses, which
they thought had been .the town, which were not above
half a mile off, they were under -a great disappointment:
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses: and
where the town was, or how big, they knew .not i they
consulted therefore what to do, and were sometime be-
fore they could resolve : for if they scll upon these, they
must cut all their throats : and it was ten to one but some
of them might escape, it being in the night, though the
moon was up: and if one escaped, he would run away,
and raise all.the town-, so they should have a whole army
upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went
away, and left those untouched (for the people were
all asleep) they could not tell which way to look for the
town.
However, the last was the best advice.: so they re-
solved to .leave those houses, and.look for xhe town as
well as they could: they went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree: this they presently con-
cluded would be a good guide to them: for they said
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them,
or the town behind them: and if they untied her,
they should see which way she went: if she wentback,
they had nothing to say to her: but, if she went for-
ward, they had nothing to do but to follow her: so
they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags,
and the cow went on before them: in a word, the
cow led them directly to the town, which, as they
reported, consisted of above 200 h ouses, or huts: and
in some of these, they found sev eral families living
together. '. .
Here
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, as fleep
and a country that had never seen an enemy os that kind,
could make them: upon this they called another council,
to'consider what they had to do ; and in a word they re-
solved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three houses on sire in three parts of the town : and as
the men came out, and to sei2e them and bind them
if any resisted, they need not to be asked what to do then;
and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder; but
resolved to march silently sirst through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they might
venture upon it, or no.
They did do, and desperately resolved that they would
venture upon them; but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, that were a little
before the rest, called out aloud, and told them they had
found Tho. JefFrys , they all ran up to the place, and so
it was indeed, for there they found the poor sellow hang-
ed up naked by one arm, and his throat cut: there was
an Indian house just by the tree, where they found six-
teen or seventen of the principal Indians, who had been
concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three
of them wounded with our shot; and our men found
they were awake, and talking one to another in^hat
house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them as before, that they swore to one another, they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter; and to work they
went Immediately ; and yet not so madly as by the rage
and Jury they were in might be expected. Their sirst
care was to get something that would scon take sire;
but after a little search, they found that would be to no
purpose, for moll of the houses were low, and thatched
with flags or rushes, of which the country is sull; so
they presently made some wild sire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little powder in the palms of their hands ; and, in
:i quarter of an hour, they set the tov.n on sire in four
er sive places; and particularly that house where the
Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the sire began
to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to rush out
to save their lives; but met with their Fate in the at-
Vol. II. „ H tempt,
tf mpt, and especially at the door, where they drove
them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-ax; the house being large, and many in
it, he did not care to go in, but called for an hand-
grenado, and threw it among them, which, at sirst,
frighted them; but when it burst, made such havock
among them, that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house, were killed or hurt with the grenado,
except two or three more, who pressed to the door,
which the boatswain and two more kept with the bayo-
nets in the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all
who came that way. But there was another apartment
in the house, where the prince or king, or whatsoever
he was, and several others, were; and they kept in, till
the house, which was by this time all of a light slame,
sell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt
together.
I All this while they sired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people saster than they' could master
them; but the sire began to waken them sast enough,
and our sellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the sire grew so raging, all the houses be-
ing made of light combustible stuff, that they could
hastily bear the street between them; and their business
was to follow the sire for the surer execution: as sast as
the sire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our peo-
ple were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
still calling and hallooing to one another to remember
Tho. Jeffrys.
While this was doing, I must consess I was very un-
easy, and especially, when I saw the flames of the town,
which, it being night, seemed to be just by me.
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men
too, seeing such a sire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was, or what danger I was in; especi-
ally hearing the guns too: for by this time they began
to use their sire arms: a thousand thoughts oppressed
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what mould
become of us: and at last though he could ill spare any
more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might
be In, he takes another boat, and with thirteen men
and himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat, with no more than two men, for one had been
left to keep the boat; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the fame impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise, continued, and the
flame increased: I consess it was next to an impossibility
for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing what had happened, or their concern for the
sasety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he
would go and help his men, let what would come. I
argued with him, as I did before with the men, the sasety
of the ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest
of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him I
would go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at
a distance learn what was like to be the event, and
come back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk
to the rest before; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had left but ten men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help: he
had rather he said lose the ship, the voyage, and his
lise, and all; and so away went fie.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now, than I
was to persuade them not to go before; so, in short, the
captain ordered two men to row back the pinnance, and
sctch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-
boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after
us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of 65 men, whereof two
were lost in the sirst quarrel which brought this mischief
on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt
little of the ground we trod on; and being guided by
'the sire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were
surprising to- us before, the cries of the poor people
were now quite of another nature, and silled us with
horror. I must consess ! never was at the sacking of
a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I have
H 2 heard
ADVENTURES OF
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ireland,
and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read ot
Count Tilly sacking of the city of Magdeburg, and
cutting the throats of 22,000 of both sexes ; but 1 never
had an idea, of the thing itself before; nor is it possible
to describe it, or the horror which was upon our minds
at hearing it.
However we went on, and at length, came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it
for the sire. The sirst object we met with, was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the
house was consumed; and just before it, plain now
to be seen by the light of the sire, lay four men and
three women killed; and as we thought, one or two
more lay in the heap among the sire. In short, these
were such instances of rage altogether barbarous, and
of a sury something beyond what was human, that we
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or
if they were the authors of it, we thought that every
ore of them ought to be put to the worst of deaths: but
this was not all; we saw the sire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the sire went on, so that we were
in the utmost consusion. We advanced a little way sar-
ther; and beheld to our astonishment, three women
naked, crying in a most dreadsul manner, and flying as
if they had, indeed, had wings, and after them, sixteen
cr seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and conster-
nation, with three of our English butchers, (for I can
call them no hetier) in the rear; who, when they could
not overtake them, fired in among them, and one that
was killed by their shot sell down in our sight,; when
the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and
that we would murder them, as well as thole that pur-
sued them, they set up a most dreadsul shriek, especially
the women, and two of them sell down as if already
dead with the fright.
My very foul shr ik within me, and my blood ran
chill in my veins when/I saw this; and I believe, had
the three English sailors that pursued them come on,
I had made our men kill them all However, we took
some ways to let the pear flying creatures know that
O . '. • > - we
ive would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, arid kneeling down, with their hands lifted up,
made pitecus lamentations to us to save them which we
let them know we would do ; whereupon they kept all
together in a huddie, close behind us, for protection.
I left my men drawn up together, and charged them to
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our
people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and
what they intended to do; and, in a word, to com-
mand them off; assuring them, that if they stayed till
ROBINSON CRUSOB,
about theirears: I fay I left them, and went among
those flying people, taking only two of our men vvitn
me; and. there was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among
them ; some of them had their seet terribly burnt witli
trampling and running through the sire; others thetr
hands'burnt, one of the women had fallen down in the
lire, and was almost burnt to death before she could
get out again; two or three of the men had cuts in
their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing, and
another was shot through- the body, and died while I -
was there.
J would fain have learned what the occasion of all
this was, but I could not understand one word they said<
though by signs I perceived that some of them knew
not what was the occasion themselvc. 1 was so terri-
sied in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
cOmH not stay there, but went back to my o*n men;
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to
follow me, when in the very moment came sour of our
men, with the boatswain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre ;.
when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could
halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them
hear; so that they knew who we w«re, and came up to
us.
As soon as the boatswain .saw us, he set up a halloo
like a shout of triumph, for saving, as he thought,
more help come; and without bearing to hear me, cap-
tain, fays he, noble captain, I am glad you are come;
we have not half done yet; villains ! hell hound dogs!
H 3 I will
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we
will root out the very name of them from the earth ; and
thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would
not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a
little: Barbarous dog! said I, what are you doing?
I won't have one creature touched more, upon pain os
death. I charge you, upon your lise, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute.
Why, Sir, sa) s he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what
we have done, ccme hither; and with that he shewed
me the poor sellow hanging upon a tree with his throat
i lit.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another
lime should have been forward enough : but I thought
they had carried their rage too sar, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, 'Cursed be
their anger, for it was sierce; and' their wrath, for it
was cruel.' But I had now a new task upon my hands?
for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I
had done, I had as much to do to restrain them, as I
should have had with the others ; nay, my nephew him-
self sell in with them, and told me, in their hearing,
that he was only concerned for sear of the men being
overpowered; for, as to the people, he thought not one
ef them ought to live; for they had all glutted them-
selves with the murder of the poor man, and that they
ought to be used like murderers; upon these words,
away ran eight of my men with the boatswain and his
crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it
(juit out of my power to restrain them, came away pen-
i'.ve and sad: for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that sell
into their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the super-
cargo and two men, and with these I walked back to
the boats. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I
confess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, as it
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run
ver
»7S
over the country, there stood about forty men armed
with lances and bows at the little place where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood mentioned before; but by ac-
cident I missed the place, and came directly to the sea-
side; and by that time I got to the sea-side it was broad
day ; immediately I took the pinnace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might
happen.
1 observed that about the time I came to the boat-
side, the sire was pretty well out, and the noise abated;
but in about half an hour after I got on board, I heard
a volley of our mens sire arms, and saw a great smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men salling
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at the sew
houses cn the way; of whom they killed i6or 17, and
set all those houses on sire, but did not meddle with thus
women or children.
By that time the men got to the more again with the
-pinnance, oar men began to appear; ihcy came drop-
ping in, some and some ; not in two bodies, and in form,
as th< y went out, but all in heap1-, straggling here and
t iere in such a manner, that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all oss.
But the dread of them was upon the whole country;
the people were amazed, and surprised, and so frighted,
that I believe, an hundred of them would have fled at
the sight of but sive of our men. Nor in all this terriole
action was there a man who made any considerable de-
sence; they were so surprised between the terror of the
sire, and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that
they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they
fled one way, they were met by one party ; if back again,
b/another; so that they were every where knocked
down. Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt,
except one who strained his foot, and another had one
of his hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,
indeed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him in
particular ;. as well for his acting so out of his duty, as
commander of the ship, and having the charge of the
voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cool-
ing, the rage of his men, in so bloody and cruel an en-
Id 4 terprise
terprise: my nephew anVered me very respectsully:
bu: told me dial when be few the body os the poor sea-
man, whoa they hid m^de-cd in tech a cruel and
taroarou: caiioer, hewa, r.ot master ofhlmkrlf. neither
to'jld be govern nis pafior.; he ev.ned, he should~not
hjve done so: as he wa-ccrririir.der <»; the ship: bu?,
ai ne * j« a nun, and nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the re^ of the men, they were not sub-
ject to me at all: and they .-cnere it well enough: so they
took no notice os my d;sL :e.
'she next day we set uii: so we never heard any
more of it. Our n;en dhtered in the account of the
number they killed: some laid one thing, some mother:
b it, accortliugto the be.t of t.'.eir accounts put all to-
gether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 pecplJ,
woir.en, and children, and leit not a house Handing in
the tor/n.
As for the poor sellow Thomas Jestrys, as he was
quite dead, for his threat was so cut that his head was half
off, it would do him no service to bring him away: so
they left him where they found him, only took hint
down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
However j u.1 cur men thought this action to be, lwas
against them in it: and I always, afier that time, told
them God would blast the voyage: for I locked upon
the blood they shed that night to be murder in them:
for though it ii true that they killed Thomas JefFrys.
yet it was as true that JesFrys was the aggreflbr, had
broken the truce, and had violated or debauched a
young woman of theirs, who came to our camp innocent-
ly, and on the faith of their capitulation.
The boatswain desended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said, it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not; 'and that
the war was begun the night before b/ the natives
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of oar
men without any just provocation: so that, as we were
in a capacity to sight them, we might al(o be in a ca-
pacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extraordi-
nary manner: that though the poor man had taken li-
berty with a wench, he ought not to have been murder-
ej, and that in such a villainous manner : and that they 4id
ncthfng
-nothing but what was just, and that the laws of God al-
lowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to
have warned us against going on shore among heathem
and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind
wise, but at their own experience; and their experience
seems to be always of most use to them, when it is
dearest bought,
- We were now bound to the Gulph of Persia, and from
thence 10 the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Su-
rat but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the
bay of Bengal, where, if he missed of the business out-
ward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home'.
The sirst disaster that besel us was in the Gulph cf
Persia, where sive of our men, venturing on shore on
the Arabian side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the
Arabs, and either all killed, or carried away into sla-
very; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to
rescue them, and, had but just time to get osf their
boat; I began to upbraid them with the just retribution
of heaven in tips- case; but the boatswain very warmly
told me, he thought I went sarther in my censures than
I could shew any warrant for in scripture, and reserred
to the thirteenth of' St. Luke, ver. 4. where our Saviour
intimates, that those men, on whom the Tower of Si-
loam sell, were not sinners above all the Galileans; but
that which, indeed, put me to silence in this case, was,
that none of these sive men, who were now lost, were of
the number of those who went on shore to the massacre
of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our men
.could not bear the word massacre with any patience) |
and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said, put
me to silence for the present.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject
had worse consequences then I expected ; and the boat-
swain, who had been the head of the attempt, came
up boldly to me one time, and told me, he found that
I continually brought that affair upon the stage; that
I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
men very ill on that account, and himself in particu-,
lar; that as I was but a passenger, and had no conv-
H 5 mand
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I
night have- some ill design in my head, and, perhaps,
call them to an account for it, when they came to Eng-
land ; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to concern myself sarther
with him, or any os his assairs, he would leave the ship;
for he did not think it was sase to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and-
then told. him, that I did consess I had all along op-
posed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely aboui it, though not more upon him
than any of the fe^fnnat as to my having no command
in the ship, thaj^vas woe, nor did I exercise any au-
thority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; as to what
concern 1 had in the voyage, that was none of his
business; I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, even
sarther than 1 had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or-any one else; and began to be a little
warm with him: he made but little reply 10 me at
that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and, being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when
one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for
they had orders not to carry me on board. Anyone
may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes-
sage ; and I asked the man, who bade him deliver that
errant tones . He told me the cockswain. I said no
more to the sellow, but bid him let tnem know he had
delivered his message, and that I had given him no an-
swer to it.
I immediately went, and sound out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
saw, viz. that there'would certainly be a mutiny in the
ship; and intreated him to go immediately on board the
»79
(hip in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was essected on
board: the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and
in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone
off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and de-
sired to spean witii the captain; and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue (for the sellow talked
very well,) and repeating all he had said to me, told
the captain in a sew words, that as 1 was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any vio-
lence with me; which, if I had not gone on shore, they «,
would otherwiie have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought sit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to fen e in the ship under his com-
mand, they would perform it faithsully : but if I would
not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it,
they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with
him : and at that word ALL, he tamed his face about
Kowards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them ; at which all the seamen being
got together, they cried out, Oire and ALL, One and
ALL.
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised,
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he would consider of the matter; but that he could do
nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it: he used
some arguments with them, to shew them the unreason-
ableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in
vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his
face, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
engage to them not to suffer me to come on board the
ship.
This was an hard article upon him, who knew his
obligation to me, and did not know how I might take
it; so he began to talk cavalierly to them; told them,
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
that in justice he could not put me out of my own
house ; that this was next door to serving me as the fa-
mous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
he ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhabited
H 6 island,
iSo
ADVENTURES OF
island, and ran away with the ship: that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to Eng-
land again, it would cost them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not put me out of it: and that
he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleas-
ed. However, he would go on shore, and talk with-
in e there ; and invited the boatswain to go with him.
and perhaps they might accomodate the matter with
me.
But they all rejected the proposal ; and said, they
would have nothiug to do with me ho mare, neither
on board, nbron shore; and if I came on board, they
would go on shore. Well said the captain, if you are
all of this mind let me go on more, and talk with him;
ib away he came to me with this account, a little after
the message had been brought to me from the cock-
swain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must consess ^
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
consine him by violence, set sail, and run away with
the ship ; and then I had been stript naked in a remote
country, and nothing iO help myself: in short, I had
been in a worse case than when I was all alone in the
island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my
great satisfaction ; and when my nephew told me what
rhey had said to him, and how they had sworn, and
shook hands, that they would one and all leave the
ship, if I was suffered to come on board, I told him, he
Ihouldnot be concerned at it at all, for I would stay oa
shore; 1 only desired he would take care and send me
all my necessary thing? on shore, and leave me a suffici-
ent sum of money, and I would sind my way to Eng-
land as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
there was'no'way to help- it, but to comply with it.
So in short, he went on board the ship again, and satis-
sied the men, that his uncle -had yielded to their im-
portunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ship. So the matter was over in a very sew
hours:
hours ; the men returned to their duty, and I begun to
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world,
as I think I may call it, for I was. near three thousand
leagues, by sea, farther off from England, than I was
at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulph of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo andScan-
deroon; froin thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France : and this, put together, might be, at
least, a sull diameter of the globe ; but, if jt were to be
measured, I suppose it would appear to be a great deal
more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for
some English ships, which were coming to Bengal, from
Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on
board them for England: but as I came hither without
any concern with the English East-India company, so it
would be difficult to go from hence without their
- licence, unless with great favour of the captains of the
ships, or of the company's factors; and to both I was
an utter stranger:
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by con-
trarities, to see the ship set sail without me; a treat-
ment, I think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except from pirates running away with a
ship, and setting those that would not agree with their
villainy on shore; indeed this was the next door to
it, both ways: however, my nephew left me two ser-
vants, or rather., one companion, and one servant;
the sirst was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to
go with me; and the other was his own servant: I
took me also a good lodging in the house of an Eng-
lish woman, where several merchants lodged, some
. French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and
that I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing, I
stayed here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself; I had sum English
goods with me, of value, and a considerable some of
money,
money, my nephew surnishing me with a thousan*
pieces of of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I
had occasion, that 1 might not be straitened, whatever
might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage
too ; and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things was the
most proper for me, in my circumstances, because I
might always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to England; but none salling to my mind,
the English merchant, who lodged with me, and with
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came
to me one morning , Countryman, says he, I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with
my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with your's
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I
by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote
from our own country ; but it is in a country j where, by
us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got: if you will pat a thousand pounds
to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the
sirst we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, 111
be merchant; and we will go a trading voyage to China ;.
for what should we stand still for? The whole world is
in motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures
of God, heavenly bodies, and earthly, are busy and dili-
gent : why should' we be idle? There are no drones,
says he, living in the world but men: why should we
be of that number?
I liked this proposal very well, and the more, because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and
in so friendly a manner; I will not say but that I might,
by my loose and unhinged circumstances, be the sitter
to embrace a proposal for trade, and, indeed, for any
thing else ; or otherwise, trade was none of my element:
however, I might, perhaps, say, with some truth, that
if trade was not my element, rambling was; and no pro-
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never
seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.
It
It was, however, some time before we could get a
ship to our mind ; and when we got a vessel it was not
easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the
sailors which we should pick up there; after some time
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men;
with these, we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it
would be but very little diversion to any body, to give
a long account of the places we went to, and the people
who inhabit there; those things I leave to others, and
reser the reader to those journals and travels of English -
men, many of which, I sind, are published, and more
promised every day: it is enough for me to tell you,
that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, sirst; and from thence to Siam, where we ex-
changed some of our wares for opium, and for some
arrack; the sirst, a Commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was very
much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and
returned to Bengal; and I was very well satissied with
my adventure. I observe that our people in England
often admire how the osficers, which the company sodd
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there
get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes
come home worth sixty, seventy, and an hundred thou-
sand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much
sarther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
then be no wonder; and much less will it be so, when
we consider, that at all those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant
demand for the growth of all other countries, that there
is a certain vent for the return, as well as a market a-
broad for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so
much money by the first adventure, and such an insight
into
184
ADVENTURES OP
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years.younger, I mould have been tempted to have rfaid
here, and sought no farther for making my fortune: but
what was all this to a man on the wrong side of three-
score; that was rich enough, and came abroad more in
obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a
covetous desire of getting in it? And, indeed, I think,
it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire;
for it was so: when 1 was at home, I was restless to go
abroad; and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at
home. 1 fay, what was this gain to me? I was rich
enough already; nor had I any uneasy desires about 1
getting more money; and therefore, the prosits of the
voyage to me, were things of no great force to me, for
the prompting me forward to farther undertakings:
hence I thought, that by this voyage I had made no
progress at all; because I was come back, as I might call
it, to the place from whence I came, as to an home;
whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satissied with seeing, was still more desirous
of wandering and seeing. I wa^ come into a part of the
world which I never was in before , and that part in par-
ticular which I had heard much of; and was resolved to
see as much of it as I could; and then I thought I might
fay, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my sellow-traveller and I had different notions;
I do not name this to insist upon my own, for I acknow-
ledge his was most just, and the most suited to the end of
a merchant's lise; who, when he is abroad upon adven-
tures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is like to get the most money by:
my new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,
and would have been content to have gone like a car-
rier's horse, always to the fame inn, backward and; for-
ward, provided he could, as he called it,, sind his ac- .
count in it: on the other hand, mine, old as I was, was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see
a thing twice over.
But this was nos all: I had a kind of impatience
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled'
resolution imaginable, which way to go: in, the inter-
ns these consultations, my. friend, who was always
upon
upon the search for business, proposed another voyag*
to me, viz. among the spice-islands ; and to bring home
a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the islands
belong partly to the Spaniards; though we went riot so
sar, but to some other, where they have not the whole
power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficul-
ty was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last: ,
nothing else offering, and sinding that really stirring
about and trading, the prosit being so great, and, as I
may Jay, certain, had more pleasure in it, and more sa-
tissaction to the mind, than sitting still; which, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of lise, I resolved on.
this voyage too; which we made very successsully,
touching at Borneo, and several islands, whose names I
do not remember, and came home in about sive months:
we fold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away for the Gulph; and making near sive of cne, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at
me; Well now, said he, with a sort of an agreeable in-
sult upon my indolent temper, is not this better than
walking about here, like a man of nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and igno-
rance of the Pagans? Why truly, said I, my friend, I
think it is; and I begin to be a convert to the principles
of merchandizing; but I must tell you, said, by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if once
I conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old
as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the world till
I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never
let you lie llil!.
But to be short with my speculations; a little while
after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she
was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about
two hundred tons burden ; the men, as they pretended,
having been so sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as if
having got money enough, or being willing, for other
reasons, to go for Europe, he gavepublick notice, that
he would sell his ship: this came to my ears before my
new partner heard of it: and I had a great mind to buy
it: sot went home to him, and told him of it; he con-
siders awhile, for he was no rash man neither : but, mu-
sing some time, he replied; She is a little too big: but,
however, we will have her. Accordingly we bought the
strip: and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and took posLiiion: when we had done so, we resolved
ft) entertain the men, if we could, to join them with
those we had, for the pursuing our business : but on a sud-
den, they having not received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we afterwards learnt, not one of
them was to be found. We enquired much about them,
and at length were told, that they w ere all gone toge-
ther by land, to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's
residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat, and
so by sea to the gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as
that I misted the opportunity of going with them; for
such a ramble,' I thought, and in such company as would
both have guarded me, and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design ; and I should both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satissied a sew days after, when I came
to know What fort of sellows they were; for, in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were at-
tacked on the shore by some of the Malaccans, who had
killed the captain and three of his men ; and that after
the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did;
and had brought her in at the bay of Bengal, leaving
the mate and sive men mare on shbre ; of whom we shall
h£ar sarther.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we did
not4 f consess, examine into things so exactly as
we ought; for we never enquired any thing of the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
have saulteied in their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps, contradicted themselves; or, one-
who-
how or other, we should have seen reason to have sus-
pected them; but the man sliewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called him-
self by that name ; and we would not contradict him ; and
However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch; and we now resolved fora
second voyage to the . south-east, for cloves, &c. that is
to say, among the Phillippine and Malacca isles; and
in short, not to sill this part of my story with trisles, when
what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from sirst
to last, six years in this country, tracing from port to port
backward and forward, and with very good success ; and
was how the last year with my partner, going in tlie ship
above-mentioned, on a voyage to China; but designing
first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the sireights of Ma-
lacca/and among the islands, we were no sooner got clear
of those difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to sind
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port;
and my partner, who knew the country better than I tlid,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia;
for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson,
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself: This river lies on the north-side of the great
bayorgulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on more for re-
freshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman,
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an En-
glish East-India ship, which rode in the same river,
up at, or near the city of Cambodia; what brought
him hither we knew not 5 but he comes up to me, and,
speaking English, Sir, says he, you are a stranger to me
and I to you; but I have something to tell you, that very
nearly concerns you.
I looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
at sirst I had known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, and not yourself, what moves you

to tell it me? lam moved, fays-he, by the imminent
danger you are in; and for aught I see, you have to
knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said s, but
that my ship u leaky, and I cannot sind it out; but I
propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can
sind it out. But, sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, sind ft,
or not sind it, you will be wiser than to hy your ship cm
shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to
you: Do you know, sir, said he, the town of Cambodia
lies about sifteen leagues up this river? and there are
two large English ships about sive leagues on this side,
and three Dutch. Well, said I, and what is that to me?
Why, sir, says he, is it for a man that is upon suchj ad-
ventures is vou are, to come into port, and not examine
sirst what ships there are there, and whether he is able to
deal with them? I suppose you do not think you are a
match for them. I was amused very much -at hi* dis-
course, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot ima-
gine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the com-
pany's ships, or Dutch ships; I am no interloper;
what can they have to say to me?
He looked like a man half angry, half pleased;
and, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, sir, says he, if
you think yourself secure, yon must take your chance;
I am'/orry your sate should blind you against good
advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to
sea immediately, you will the very next tide, be at-
tacked by sive long boats sull of men; and, perhaps,
if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and
the particulars be examined into afterwards: I thought,
sir, added he, I should have met with a better recep-
tion thj{n this, for doing you a piece of service of sech.
importance. I can never be ungratesul, said I, for
any service, or to any man that offers me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension, said I, what
they should have such a design upon me for: How-
ever, since you say there is no time to be lost, and
that there is some villainous design in hand against me,
I will go on board this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can
swim
fivim without stopping it: But sir, said I, shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this f Can you give
me no farther light into it?
I can tell you but part of the story, sir, fays he; but
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and, 1 believe, I
could persuade him to - tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it : but the short of the story is this, the
sirst part of which, I suppose, you know well enough,
viz. That you were with this ship at Sumatra; that
there your captain was murdered, by the Mallaccans,
with three of his men; and that y ou, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of
the. story,-and you will all be seized aspirates, lean
assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for
you know merchants ships shew but little law to pi-
rates, if they get them in their power.
Now you speak plain English, said I, and I thank
you ; and though I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, but I am sure we came honestly,
and fairly by the ship, yet, seeing such work is a
doing, as you fay, and that you seem to mean honestly,
I will be upon my guard. Nay, sir, fays he, do not
talk of being upon your guard; the best desence is to
be out of the danger; if you have any regard to your
lise, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea,
without fail at high-water ; and as you have a whole tide
before you, you will be gone too far out before they
can come down; for they will come away at high-
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them by the difference of the
tide, not reckoning the length of the way. Besides,
as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not
venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it
blows.
Well, said I', you have been very kind in this: What
shall 1 do for you, to make you amends? Sir, fays he,
you may not be so willing to make me amends, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the truth of it; I
will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months pay
due tome on board the ship . -, which I came out
ef England in; and'the Dutchman, that is with rue* ha'
'..t/.-... ,
. . il ...... t «-»
i90
ADVENTURES OF
seven months pay due to him; if you will make good
four pay to us, we will go along with you; if you sind
nothing more in it,e will desire no more; but if we
do convince you, that we have saved your lise, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will [leave
the rest to you.
I consented to this readily; and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came
to the ship side, my partner who was on board, came
out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great
deal of joy, O ho ! Oho ! we have stopped the leak V
we have stopped the leak! Say you so, said I, thank
God ; but weigh the anchor then immediately: Weigh!
says he; What do you mean by that? What is the mat-
ter ? fays he. Ask no questions, said I, but all hands
to work, and weigh, without losing a minute: He was
surprised: But however he called the captain, and he,
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and
though the tide was not quite done,' yet a little land-
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea: then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story at large; and we
called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as
it took us up a great deal of time, so before we had done,
a seamen comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us
that the captain bade him tell us, we were chased:
Chased, said I, by whom and by what? By sive 'sloops,
or boats, said the sellow, sull of men. Very well, laid
I ; then it is apparent there is something in it. In the -
nextplace, I ordered all our men to be called up; and
told them, that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they-
would stand by us, and by one another,? The men an-
swered, chearsully, that one and all, they would live and
die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way he
thought best for us to manage a sight with them: For,
resist them I resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them
them off with our great shot, as long as we could, and
then to sire at them with our small arms, to keep them
from boarding us; but when neither of these would do
any longer, we would retire' to,our close quarters ; perr
haps they had not materials & break open our bulk-
nds, or getin upon us. . \
The
The gunner had in the mean time, orders to bring
<two guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
clear the deck, and load them with musquet-bullets, and
small pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand;
and thus we made ready for sight: but all this while kept
out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at
a distance, being sive large long-boats following us, with
all the fail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses, we could
see, were English, had outsailed the rest, were neartwo
leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably;
so that we sired they would come up with us: upon
which we found a gun without a shot, to intimate that
they mould bring to: and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley: but they kept crowding after
us, till they came within shot; upon this we took in
our white flag, they having made no answer to it,
hung out the red flag, and sired at them with shot: Not-
withstanding this, they came on till they were near
«nough to call to them with a speaking trumpet, which
we had on board: so we cai'ed them, and bade them-
keep off at their peril.
It was all one, they crouded after us, and endeavour-
ed to come under our stern, so to board us on our quar-
ter: Upon which, seeing they were resolute for mis-
chief, and depended upon the strength that followed
them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay
upon our broadside, when immediately we sired sive
guns at them : one of them had been levelled so true as
to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of* taking down their fail,
and running all to the head of the boat to keep her
from sinking: so she lay by, arid had enough of it;
but, seeing the foremost boat still crowd on after us, we
made ready to sire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one of three boats that
was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made
up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and
we could afterwards see h« take out the men : we called
again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her business with us:
but had no answer; only she crowded close under our
ster-
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dextroui
sellow, run out his two chace guns, and fired at her;
but the shot miffing, the men in the boat shouted,
waved their caps, and came on; but the gunner, get-
ting quickly ready again, sired among them a second
time; one shot of which, though it miffed the boat
itself, yet sell in among the men, and we could easily
see, had done a great deal of mischief among them;
but we, taking no notice of that, weared the ship again,
and brought our quarter to bear upon them; and, siring
three guns more, we found the boat was split almost to
pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her
stern, was shct quite away; so they handed their sail
immediately, and were in great disorder; but, to com-
plete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water: upon this I immediately manned
out our pinnance, which we had kept close by our side,
with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them srom drowning, and immediately to come
on board with them; because we saw the rest of the
boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace,
followed their orders, and took up three men; one of
which was just drowning, and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as they were on
board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and
stood sarther out to sea; and we found, that when the
other three boats came up to the sirst two, they gave
over their chace.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I
knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much
greater thanfl apprehended; I took care that we would
change our course, and not let any one imagine whitner
we were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite
out of the course of all European ships, whether they
were bound to China, or any where else, within the
commerce of the European nations.
When we were now at sea, we begar, to consult
with the two seamen, and, enquire sirst, what the
meaning of all this should be? The Dutchman let us
into
Into the secret of it at once; telling us, That the sel-
low that sol3 us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got
into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while ; till at length, he in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which sailing near the more, in its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part os the shore wkerethe boat was,
but made shift in the night, to take in the water farther
off, and, swimming a great while, at last'the ship's boat
took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two
of the'seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an ac-
count, that the sellow who had run awny with the ship,
sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an
English ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said,
very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and they
had such a propoffeffion against us before hand, it had
been in vain for us to have desended ourselves, or to
hope for any good quarters at their hands, especially
considering that our accusers had been our judges, and
that we could have expected nothing from them but
what rage would have dictated, and ungoverned passion
have executed: and therefore it was his opinion, we
should godirectly back to Bengal, from whence we tame
without putting in at any port whatever; because there
we could give an account of ourselves, and could prove
where we were when the ship put in, whom we bought
her of, and the like: and which was'more than all the
rest, if we were put to the necessity of bringing it before
the proper judges, we mould be sure to have some jus-
tice ; and not be hanged sirst, and judged afterwards.
Vol. II. I I was
»94
ADVENTURES OP
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after
a little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it
was a very great hazard for us to attempt returning to
Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the
streights of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given,
we should be sure to be way-laid on every side, as well
by the Dutch of Batavia, as the English else-where;
that if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we
should even condemn ourselves, and there would want
no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was os my mind., and that
we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast ofTonquin, and so on to Oiina ; and
from thence purluing the sirst design, as .to trade, sind
some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come
back in some of the vessels of the country, such'as we
could get. This was approved of as the best method
for our security , and accordingly we steered away 'M.
N. E. keeping above sifty leagues osf from the usual
course to the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
sirst, the winds, when we came to that distance from
the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us blow-
ing almost trade, as wecall it, from the east, andE.N.E.
so that we were a long while upon our voyage; and we
were but ill provided v,ith victuals for so long a run
and, which was still worse, there was feme danger, that
those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us.,
whereof some were bound that way, might be got in be-
fore us-, and if not, some other ship, bound to China,
might have informaiion of us from them, and pursue us
with the same vigour.
I must consess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
mysels, including the late escape from ti.e long boats.,
to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever
I was in through all my past lise.; for, whatever ill cir-
cumstances I had been in, d .was never puriued for a
.thief before; nor had I ever done any thing tr.at me-
rited the najne of dishonest, or fraudulent, much less
thievish. I na3 chiefly been mine own enemy; or, as
«*.- • I may
I may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but my
own. fiut now I was embarrassed ir. the worst condition,
imaginable; for though I was persectly innocent, I was
in no condition to make that innocence appear. And
if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt
of the worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among
the people I had to do with. ,
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it, I knew not; or what port or place
we should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned- at sirst, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several ports of
that coast, told me, he would put in on the coast of
Cochinchina, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao,- a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European fami-
lies resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly,
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very
much streightened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coall very early in the morning; and upon re-
flection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the
danger, if we hr.d not escaped, we resolved to put into a
small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to see if we could, either over land,
or by the (hip's pinnace, come to know what ship's were
in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance ; for though we did not immediately see
any European ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet, the next
morning, there came into the bay two Dutch strip's, and
a third without any colours spread out, but which we
telicved to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two
leagues distance, steering for the the coast of China ; and
in the afternoon we went by two English ships, steering
the same course ; and thus we thougkt, we saw ourselves
beset with enemies, both one way and the other. The
place we were in was wild and barbarous the people
thieves, even by occupation or prosession; and though
it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and ex-
cept getting a sew provisions/- cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet ft 'was with much disficulty
I Z that
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them se-
veral ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
sew leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by
our boat we coasted north-east to the point of land
which opens to the great bay of Tonquin; and it was
in this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a word, we were surrounded with ene-
mies. The people we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no
correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only
in sish and oil, and luch gross commodities; and it
way be particularly seen, that they are, as I said, the
mcit barbarous of any of the inhabitants; viz. that
among other customs they have this one, that if any
vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; that
is to say, slaves | and it was not long before we found
a spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol-
lowing.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak
at sea, and that we could not sind it out; and however
it happened, that, as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of fciam;
yet, as we did not sind the shirj.' o persectly tight and
found as we desired, we resolved, while we were iri this
place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things
we had on board, which were not many, and to wash
and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to sind out where
the leaks were
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we mignt come at her
bottom: for, on second thoughts, we did not care to
lay her dry aground, neither could we sind out a pro-
place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a sigh;, came wondering down to the shore to
look at us: and seeing liie ship lie down on one side
in a such a manner, and heeling towards the shore, and
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bot-
tom,
'97
torn, with stages, and with their boats on the off side,
they presently concluded that the ship was cast away,
and lay so very sast on the ground.
On thi-i supposition they came all about us in two or
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats, having
ibmo of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the
ship, and if they had found us there, to have carried us
away for staves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we knew not who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at work, on the
outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seasaring man knows
how.
They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; but, being willing to be sure, we took
this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition, to those
that were at work to defend themselves with, if there
should • be occasion: and it was no more than need:
for, in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck:
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or
- to save our lives by the help of our boats: and when
. we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they aU belonged to them: and away they came di-
rectly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of
battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began" to be
frighted ; for we lay but in an ill posture to sight, and cried
out to us to know what they should do. I imme-
diately called to the men who worked upon the stages
to slip them down, and get up the side into the
ship: and bade those in the boat to row round and
come on board: and those sew of us who were on
board, worked with all the strength and hands we
had, to bring the ship to rights: but, however, neither
the men upon the stage, nor those in the boats, could
I 3 do
do as they were ordered, before the Cochinchinele were
upon them : and, with two of their boats boarded our"
lontr-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The sirst man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout strong sellow, who having a musquet in his h^nd,
never offered to sire it, but laid it down in the boat, like
a fool, as 1 thought. But he understood his business bet-
ter than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragged him by main force out of their own boat
into ours; where, taking him by the two' ears, he beat
his head so againll the boat's gunnel, that the sellow died
instantly in his hands; and in the meantime, a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musquet, and with-
the but-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked-
down sive of them, who attempted to enter the boat;
but tlii- was little towards resisting thirty or forty men,
who searless, because ignorant of their danger, began to
throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had but
sive men to desend it; but one accident gave our men a
complete victory, which deserved our laughter rather
than any thing else; and that was this:
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of
the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulk-
ed her, to slop the leaks, had got two kettles just let
down into the boat; one silled with boiling pitch, a-nd
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and iueh stuff as
the shipwrights used for that work; and the man that
tended the carpenter had a great 'ron ladle in his hand,
with which he supplied the men that were at work with
that hot stuff; two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this sellow stood, being in the fore
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladlesul of
the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half-naked, that they roared out like two bulls,
and enraged with the sire, leaped both into the sea.
Tihe carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done Jack,
give them some more of it; when stepping forward
hmself, he takes one of their mops, and dipping it in
the pitch pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentisully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats,
there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with
it
'99
h In a most frightsul pitisul manner, and made such an
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise,
and, indeed, nothing like it; for it was worth observing,
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out,
yet every nation have a particular way of exclamation,
and make noises as diiserent from one another as
their speech. 1 cannot give the noise these creatures
made a better name than howling, nor a name more
proper to the tone of it; for 1 never heard any thing
more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have
said, I heard howl in the forelt on the frontiers of Lan-
guedoc.
I was never pleased with a victory better in my lise:
not only as it was a persect surprise to me, and that our
danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory
without any bloodshed, except of that man the sellow
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage
wretches,- even though it was in my own.desence, know-
ing, they came on errads which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness
in nature: yet I thought it was a fad lise; when we must
be always obliged to be killing our sellow creatures to
preserve ourselves; and indeed, I think so still; and I
would, even now, suffer a great deal, rather, than I
would take away the lise even of the worst person inju-
ring me. I believe a'so, all considering people, ho
knew the value of lise, would be of my opinion, if they
. enteredseriouily into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story : all the hile this was do-
ing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men
on board,- had with great dexterity, brought the ship
almost to rights; and having gotten the guns into
their places again, the gunner called tome, to bid our
boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among
them/ I called back again to him, and bid him hot
offer to sire,for the carpenter would do the work 1th-
out him ; but bid him heat another pitch kettle; h ich
our cook, who was on'board, took care of. But the
enemy was so terrisied with what they met with in their
sirst attack, that they would not come on again; and
I 4 som*'
2 e
ADVENTURES OF
some -of them, that were farthest oft* seeing the strip'
IvvinA as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to
see theirtnistake, and gave over the enterprise, rinding it
not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry
sight; and, having gotten some rice, and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two
days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go
forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt
but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues
enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dis-
pose of for us.
We, therefore, got all our things on board the fame
evening, and the next morning were ready to fail. In
the mean time, lying at an anchor some distance from
the shore, we were not so much concerned, being now
in a sighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if
any enemy had presented. The next day, having sinish-'
ed our work within board, and sinding our ship was
persectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail; we would
have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to
insorm ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in,
as we supposed, but a little before ; so we kept on N. E.
towards the isle of Formosa, as much afraid of being'
seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch
or English merchant ship in the Mediterrean is of an
Algerine man of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as
if we would go to the Manillas or the Phillippine islands,
and this we did, that we might not fall into the way of
any of the European ships; and then we steered north
again, till we came to the latitude of zz deg. zo niin.
by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in
all their agreements and bargains ; which is what me did
not sind among c ther people and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here
by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony
20i
of what I have often observed, vi2. that the christian
religion always civilizes the people, and reforms their
manners, where it is received, whether it works saving
efsects upon them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast
of China a: an equal distance, till we knew we were
beyond all the ports of China, where our European
ships usually come: being resolved, if possible, not to
fall into any of their hands, especially in this country,
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of
being entirely ruined: nay, so great was my sear in par-
ticular, as to my being taken by them, that I believe
sirmly I would much rather have chosen to fall into the
hands of the Spanish inquisition.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we
resolved to put into the sirst trading port we should come
at; .and, standing in for the shore, a boat came off two
leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer
his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board: upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in,
and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulph of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the Gulph of Nan-
quin very well; but, smiling, asked us what we would
do there.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, callicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
&c. and so would return by the fame course we came.
He told us our best port had been to have put in at Ma-
cao, where we could r.ot fail of a market for our opium,
to our satisfaction, and might, for our money, have
purchased all sorts of China goods, as cheap as we could
at Nanquin. ,
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk,
of which he was very opiniated, or conceited, I told
•him, we were gentlemen, as well as merchants ; and
that we had a mind to go and fee the great city of
, • ,I 5 Pekin
Z02
ADVENTURES OF
Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China,
Why then, fays the old man, you should go to Ningpo,
where, by the river that runs into the sea there, you may
go up within sive leagues of the great canal. This
canal is a navigable made stream, which goes through
the heart of all that vast empire of China,.crosses all the
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of slui-
ces and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being:
in length near 270 leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now: the great question is, If you can carry
us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel
to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so
very well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up that
way just before. This gave me a little shock ; a Dutch-
ihip was now our terror, and we had much rather have
met the devil, at least if he had not come in too fright-
ful a sigure: we depended upon it, that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition/
to sight them ; all the ships they trade with in those parts-
being of great burden, and of much greater force tham
we were.
The old man found me a little consused, and under
some concern, when he named a Dutch ship ; and said
tome, Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war with your na-
tion. No, said I, that's true; but I know not what li-
berties men may take, when the) are out of the reach-
of the laws of the country. Why,said he, you are no
pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle
with peaceable merchants sure.
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into
my face at that word, it was hindered by some stop In
the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it; fork
put me into the greatest disorder and consusion imaginable
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that
the old man easily perceived it.
Sir, said he, I sind you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which
way you think sit; and depend upon it, I'll do you all
the service I can. Why, Seignior, said I it is true, I
a little unsettled in my resolution at this time,
whither to go in particular; and I am something more
so, for 'what you said about pirates: I hope there are no
pirates in these seas, we are butin an ill condition to meet
with them: for you see we have but small force, and bat
very weakly manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be concerned, I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these sifteen
years, except one, which was seen, as J hear, in the bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured
she is gone to the southward: nor was she a ship of any
great force, or sit for the work: she was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew
that were on board, after the captain and some of his
men had been murdered by the Malaccans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.
What! said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter>
Did they murder the captain? No, said he, I do not
understand that they murdered him : but, as they after-
wards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed
they betrayed him into the hands of the Malaccans, who
did murder him : and, perhaps, they procured them to
doit. Why then, said I, they deserve death., as much
as if they had done it themselves, Nay, said the old
man, they do deserve it: and they will certainly have it
if they light upon any English or Dutch ship: for they
have all agreed together, that, if they meet that rogue,
they will give him no quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of
these seas; how- can they meet with him them? Why>
that is true, said he, they do say so: but he was, as I
tell you, in the bay of Siam in the river Cambodia, and
was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they run
away with her; and some English and Dutch traders be-
ing in the river, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay, said he, if the foremost boats had been wellsecond*-
ed by the rest, they had certainly taken him: but he,
sinding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about
and sired at these two, and disabled them, besore the other
came up ; and then standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and so he got away. But they
have all so exact a description of the ship that they
16 will
will be sure to know him; and where-ever they find
him, they have vowed to give no quarter to either the
captain, or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the
yard-arm.
What! said I, will they execute them right or wrong,
hang them sirst, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
feid the old pilot, there is no need to make a formal bu-
siness of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them
back to back, arit l set them a diving; it is no more than
they rightly deserve.
I knew I had my old man sast aboard, and that he
could do me no harm; so that I turned short upon him:
Well, now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very reason
why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the coun-
try, where the English or Dutch ships come: for, be it
known to you, Seignior, those captains of the English
and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, prOud, insolent
sellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, or
how to behave themselves, as the laws of God and na-
ture direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murder-
ers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult
men salsly accused, and determine them guilty without
due enquiry , and perhaps I may live to call some of
them to an account for it, where they may be taught
how justice h to be executed; and that no man ought to
be treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had
of the crime, and that he is the man.
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
had attacked : and gave him a sull account of the skir-
mish we had with their boats, and how foolishly and
coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story
of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reasons I had to believe that this
story of killing the master by the Malaccans was not
true; as also the-running away with the ship: but that
it was all a siction of their own, to suggest that the men
were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure
it was so, before they had ventured to attack us by sur-
prise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that the/
- would
would have the blood of those men, who were killed
there, in our just desence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation; and told
us, we were very much in the right to go away to
the north; and that if he might advise us, it should be
to sell the ship in China, which we might very well do,
and buy or build another in the country: and, said he,
tho' you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get
. one able enough to carry you and all your goods back
again to Bengal, or any where else.
I told him I would take his advice, when I came to
any port where I could sind a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nar.quin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back
again; and that he would procure me people both to buy
one, and sell the other.
Well, but, Seignior, says I, as you fay they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures,
be instrumental to bring some honest ^innocent men into
a terrible broil, and, perhaps, be murdered in cold blood;
for where-ever they sind the ship they will prove the
guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship:
and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and
murdered. Why, said the old man, I'll sind out a way
to prevent that also : for as I know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the
wrong: that though the people who were on board at
sirst might run away with the ship, yet it was not true
that they had turned pirates: and that in particular those
were not the men that sirst went off with the ship, but
innocently bought her for their trade: and I am per-
suaded they will so far believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come. Well, said I, and
will yo& deliver one message to them from me? Yes,
I will fays he, if you will give it under your hand, in
writing, that I may be able to prove it came from you,
and not out of my own head. I answered, that I would
readily give it him under my hand. So I took a pen,
and ink, and paper, and wrote at large the story of
^faulting
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c. the pretended
reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it; andcon--
cluded to the commanders that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I lived to see them
there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of
my country were not grown out of use before I arrived
there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked
me several times, if I would stand to it. I answered, I'
would stand to it as long as I had any thing left in the'
world; being sensible that I should, one- time or other,,
sind an opportunity to put it home to them. But
we had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this let-
ter ; for hs never went back again. While those things
were passing between us, by way of discourse, we went
forward directly for Nanquin, and, in about thirteen days
fail, came to anchor at die south west point of the
freat gulph of Nanquin: whese, by the way, I came
y accident to understand, that the two Dutch ships
were gene that- length before me, and that I should cer-
tainly, fall into their hands. L consulted my partner
again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as
I was, and would very gladly'have been sase on shore-
almost any-where. However, I was not in such per-
plexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was
no creek or harbour,- which I might put into, and pur-
sue my business with the Chinese privately, and.be in no
danger of the enemy ?. He told me, if 1 would sail to -
the southward about two and forty leagues* there was a
little port called Quinchang, where the fathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress to
teach the christian religion to the Chinese, and where no<
European ships ever put in; and, if I thought proper to
put in there, I might consider what farther course to take
when I was on shore. He consessed, he said, it was not
a place for merchants, except, that at some certain times
they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of
'port,- as he called it, I may, perhaps spell wrong;

for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this,
together with the names of many other places set down
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water,
on an accident which I shall relate in its order: iut this
I remember, that the Chinese pr Japanese merchants we
correspond with,- call it by a different name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it
as above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this
place, we weighed the next day, having only gone
twice on shore, where we were to get fresh water ; on both
OB INS O N CRITS O E.
civil to us, and brought us abundance of things to sell
to us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice,
and some fowls ; but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary)
not till five days ; but it was very much to our satisfac-
tion; and I was joysul, and, I may fay, thanksul, when
I set my foot sase on shore; resolving,- and my partner
too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our sa-
tisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that un-
happy vessel again; and indeed, 1 must acknowledge,
that of all the circumstances of lise that ever I had any
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely
miserable as that of being in constant sear. Well does
the scripture say,. ' The sear of man brings a snare;' it
is a lise of death: and the mind is so entirely suppressed
by it, that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits
sink, and all the vigour of nature, which usually sup-
ports men under other afflictions, and is present to them
in the greatest exigencies, fails them here.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy,
by heightening every danger; representing the English
and Dutch captains to be men uncapable of hearing rea-
son, or distinguishing between honest men and rogues;
or between a story calculated for our own turn, made
out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true ge-
nuine account of our whole voyage, progress, and de-
sign; for we might many ways have convinced any
reasonable creature that we were- not pirates': the
goods- we had on board, the course we steered, our
_ franklv
frankly shewing ourselves, and entering into such a,n<I
such ports; even our very manner, the force we had,
the number of men, the sew arms, little ammunition
and shortprovisions; all these\vould have served to con-
vince any man that we were no pirates. The opium,
and other goods we had on board, would make it appear
the ship had been at Bengal? the Dutchman, who, it
was said, had the names of all the men that were in the
ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of Eng-
lish, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen
onboard. These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander, whose hands we might fall into,
that we were no pirates. -
But sear, that bjind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the; imagination at work, to
form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps, might
never happen ;. we sirst supposed, as, indeed, every body
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English*
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so en-
raged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our
beating off their boats, and escaping, that they would
Hot give themselves leave to enquire- whether we wer«
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we call
it, without giving us any room for a desence. We re-
flected that there was really so much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce enquire after any
more; as, sirst, that the ship was certainly the fame,
and that some of the seamen among them knew her,
and had been on board her; and secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that they
were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats,
and fled ; so that we made no doubt but they were as
sully satissied of our being pirates, as wo were satissied
of the contrary; and I often said, I knew not but I
should have been apt to have taken the little circum-
stances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my
case'was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or, perhaps,
considering, what they might have to offer in their
Issence.
But
But let that be how it will, those were our appre-
hensions; and both my partner and I too scarce slept a
night without dreaming of halters, and yard-arms;
that is to lay gibbets; of sighting, and being taken;
of killing, and being killed; and one night I was in
such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and 1 was knocking one of their seamen
down, that 1 struck my double sist against the side of
the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my
hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the flesh : so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, but I was once afraid I should have lost two of
my singers.
Another apprehension I bad, was, of the cruel ufagt
we sliould meet with from them, if we sell into their
hinds'; then the story of Amboyna came into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
did our countrymen there; and make some of our men,
by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they
never were guilty of; own themselves, and all of us, to
be pirates; and so they would put Us to death, with a
formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo;
which was worth four or sive thousand pounds, put all
together.
These things tormented me, and my partner too;
night and day; nor did we consider that the captains of
ships have no authority to act thus; and if we had sur-
rendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the
destroying u=, or torturing us, but would be accountable
for it when they came into their own country. This, I
fay, gave me no satisfaction; for, if they u ill act thug
with us, what advantage would it be to us that they -
would be called to an account for it: or, if we w ere
sirst to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us
to have them punished when they came home f
I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections
I now had upon the past variety of my particular cir-
cumstances ; how hard I thought it was, that I, wholiad
spent forty years in a lise of continued difficulties and
was, at last, come, as it were, at the port or haven
which all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty,
mould
HO
ADVENTURES OF
should be a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own un-
happy choice; and that I, who had escaped so many
dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged-
in my old age, and in so remote a place,- for a crime I
was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of; and
in a place and circumstance, where innocence was ntt
like to be any protection at all to me.
Alter these thoughts, something of religion would
come in; and I would be considering that this seemed
to me to be a disposition of immediate providence; and
I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such ; that
although 1 was innocent as to men, I was far from
being innocent as to my maker; and I ought to look
n, and examine what other crimes in my lise were moit
obvious to me, |and from which Providence might jull—
ly inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I .
ought to submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if
it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upori-
me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take
its place; and then I would be talking myself up to vi-
forous resolution, that I would not be taken to be
arbaroully used by a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold blood; that it was much better to have fallen into
the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters, and
who, I was sure, would seast upon me, when they had
taken me, than by those, who would, perhaps, glut their
rage upon me, by inhuman tortures and barbarities;
that, in the case-of the savage?, I always resolved to
die sighting, to the last gasp; and why mould I not do
so now, seeingit was much more dreadsul, tome at least,
to think of falling into these men's hands, than ever it
was to think of being 6Sten by men: for the savages,
give them their due, would not eat a man till he was
dead; and killed him sirst, as we do a bullock; but
that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of
-death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure
to put myself into a kind of sever, with the agitations
of a suppoied sight; my blood would boil, and my eyes
sparkle, as if 1 was engaged; and I always resolved^
that I would take no quarter at their hands: but even-
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow - up the
in
ship, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of.
But how much the greater weight the anxities and
perplexities of those things were to our thoughts while
we were at sea, by so much the greater was our satis-
saction, when we saw ourselves on shore f and my part-
ner told me, he dreamed, that he had a very heavy
load upon his back, which he was to carry up an hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it:
but the Portuguese pilot came, and took it offhis back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain: And truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a load taken oft'their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart, that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
I said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who waa
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for,
our goods, which, by the way, was much the fame:
it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to
it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilsering thieves, of which it seems
there were not a sew in the country. However, the
magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we had
a loldier with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who
stood centinel at our door; to whom we allowed a pint
of rice, and a little piece of money, about the value of
threepence per day, so that our goods were kept very
sase.
The sair or mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time; however, we found that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two Japanners, I
mean, ships from Japan, with goods which tliey had
bought in China, and were not gone away, having Ja-
panese merchants on shore.
The sirst thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was
to bring us acquainted with three missionary Roraish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time, converting the people to Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor work of it; and made
them but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was not our business, One of these was a French-
man,
man, whom they called father Simon; he was a jolly
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation,
not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did,
one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Geno-
ese; but father Simon was courteous, easy in his man-
ner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, where
ever they had opportunity: we often eat an drank with
those men: and though I must consess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far
from the true conversion, required, to bring heathen
people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount
to little more than letting them know the name of Christ,
fay some prayers to the Virgin Mary, and her son, in
a tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like ; yet it must be consessed, that these
religious, whom we call Missionaries, have a sirm belief
that these people soould be saved, and that they are the
instrument of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with-
the most violent tortures, for the fake of this work;
and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever
opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of
their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and
who have no prospect of the least temporal advantage to
themselves; (
But to return to my story ; This French priest, father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief
of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the
Chinese emperor ; and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macoa, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met together, but
he was inviting me to go that journey with him, telling
me, how he would shew me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire: and among the rest, the greatest city
in the world; a city, said he, that your London, and
our Paris, pat together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I consess, is very great, and
insinitely
insinitely sull of people: but, as I looked on those
things with difserent eyes from other men, so I shall
give my opinion of them in sew words, when I come,
in the course of my travels, to speak more particularly
of them.
But sirst, I come to my friar or missionary: Dining
with him one day, and being very merry .together, I
shewed some little inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great
many persuasions to consent. Why, father Simon, says
my partner, why should you desire our company so
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure. O!
says he, you may, perhaps, be good catholics in time;
my business here is to convert heathens ; and who knows
but I may convert you too? Very well father, said I,
so you will preach to us all the way. I won't be trou-
blesome to you, said he; our religion doe.< not divest us
of good manners; besides, said he, we are here like
countrymen; and so we are, compared to the place we
are in; and if you are hugonots, and I a catholic, we
may be all Christians at least ; at least, said he, we are all
gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being un-
easy to one another. I liked that part of his discourse
very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the BraCls ; but this father Simon did
not come up to his character by a great deal; for though
father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in
him neither, yet he had not that sund of Christian
zeal, strict piety, and sincere afsection to religion, that
my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said so
much.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but we had something
else before us at that time; for we had, all this while,
our ship and our merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we
were now in a place of very little business; and once I
was about to venture to fail for the river of Kilam; and
'the city of Nanquin: But Providence seemed now more
visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and 1 was encouraged from this very time to
think,
think, I should, one way or other, get out of this entan-
gled circumstance, and be brought home to my own
country again ; though 1 had not the least view of the
manner; and when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what method it was to be done.
Providence, I fay, began here to clear up our way a
little; and the sirst thing that ofsered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
began to enquire what goods we had; and, in the sirst
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very
good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head,
that he might perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
shrunk up hi< shoulders at it, when at sirfl proposed
to him; but in a sew days after, he came to me, with
one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and
told me, he had a proposal to make to me, and that was
this: He had bought a great quantity of goods of us
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him)
of buying the ship; and that therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the {hip ; but if I would let the
fame men who were in the ship navigate her, he would
hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send them
from thence to the Phillippine islands with another
loading, which he would pay the freight of, before
they went from Japan; and thati at their return, he
would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal,
and so eager did my head run upon rambling, that
I could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of
going with him, and so to sail from the Phillippine islands
away to the Soutti Seas; and accordingly 1 asked the
Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Phillippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no
he could not do that; for then he could not have the re-
turn of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan,
he said, at tLe ship's return. Well, still I was for taking
him at (hat proposal, and going myself; but my partner,
wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who
are
•are a salse, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of
•the Spaniards at the Philippines; more salse, more cruel,
more treacherous, than they.
But to bring this long turn of our assairs to a conclu-
sion; the sirst thing we had to do, was to consult
with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japan ; and, while
-I was doing this, the young man, whom,- as 1 said, my
nephew had left with me as my companion rfbr my
travels, came to me and told me, that he thoqght that
voyage promised very sair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and he would he -very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not^ and would give
him leave, he would go as a.mcrchant, <or how I pleased
to order him; that if ever he came to England, ;and-X'
was there, and alive, he would render me a saith^^^c-'
-count of his success, and it should be as muchjjtine as I
:.pleased. '.V,
I was really loth to part with him ;-but, considering
-the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable,
and that he was a young sellow as likely to do weJl in
it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but sirst I
told him I would consult my partner, "and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it; and my partner made a most generous osfer:
he told me, you know it has been an unlucky (hip, and
'We both resolve not to go to sea in it again, if your
-steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage,
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him
:make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
one half of the prosits of the ship's freight to us, the
ROBINSON CRUSOE, aij
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my
young man, made him such an oiler, I could do no
less than offer him tne same; and ail the ship's com-
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the ship to him in property, and took a writing from
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at japan,
and got him a licence to come on shore, which the
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained ; paid him
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines,
loaded with japan and China wares, and a supercargo
of their own, Who trafficking with the Spaniards, brought
back European goods again, and a great quantity of
cloves and other spice ; and there he was not only paid
hjs freight very well, and at a very good price, but
being not willing to sell the ship then, the merchant sur-
nished him with goods on his own account; that, for
some money, and some spices of his own, which he
Ii6 .f ADVENTURES OF
Spaniards, where he fold his cargo very well. Here,
having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got
his ship made a free ship ; and the governor of Manilla
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and give him a licence to land there, and
travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe, with all his men.
He made' the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he fold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, some how or other, to go to Jamaica with al 1
his treasure; and about eight years after came to Eng-
land, exceeding rich; of which I shall take notice in
its place : in the mean time, I return to our partipula
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship, and ship's company,
it came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pence we should give to the two men, that gave us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river
of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done ns a con-
siderable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too, for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the
ihip, they came down to us, not only to betray the
design- that-was formed against us, but to go to sea with
us as pirates; and one of them consessed afterwards,
that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing,:- brought him to do it. However, the ser-
vice they 'did us was not the less ; and therefore, as I
had promised to be gratesul to them, I sirst ordered the
money

money to be paid to them, which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; that is to lay, th«
Englishmen nineteen months pay, and to the Dutch-
men seven; and, over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well; then I made the Englishman gun-
ner of the ship, the gunner being now maie second
mate and purler; the Dutchman I made boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country, at Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my mono ,
what could I think of myself now, when I wa? gotteir
about a thousand leagues farther off from home,
-and persectly destitute of all manner- ef prospect of
return!
All we had for it was this; that in about four months
time there was to be another fair at that place where
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly sind some Chinese junks or vessels; from
. Nanquin, that would be to be sold, and would carry us
and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very
.well, and resolved to wait: besides, as our particular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch
. strips cause thither, perhaps we might have an opportu*
city to load our goods, and get passage to some other;
place in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
siies into the country sirst, we went ten days journey
to see the City of Nanquin, a city well worth see-
ing indeed; they say it has a million of people in
it; which, however, I do not believe ; it is regularly
built, the streets all exactly strait, and cross one ano-
ther in direct lines, which gives the sigure of it great
advantage.
But when I came to compare the miserable people os
these countries with ours; their fabrics, their man-
ner of living, th ir government, their religion, their
Vol. II. r>, wealth
wealth, and their glory (as some call ;t) I must con-
scss, I do not so much as think it worth naming, or
worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after
me to read. „;
It is very observable, that we wonder at the gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the cerei-niries, the go~
vernmentthe manufactures, the commerce, and the con-
duct of these people; not that they are to be wondered
at, or indeed, in the least to be regarded: but because,
having sirst a notion of the barbarity of those coun-
tries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevail
there, we do not expect to sind any such'things so far
off.
Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to
the universal commerce of England, Holland, France,
and Spain,? What their- cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich surniture, and an jfi.
sinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a
scw junks and barks, to our navigation, our mer-
chants fleet?, our large and powersul navies? Our
city of London has more trade than all their mighty
(empire. One English, or Dutch, or French man of
war of 80 guns, would sight with and destroy all
the shipping of China. But the greatness of their
wealth, their trade, the power of their government,
and strength of their armies are surprising to us, because,
as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of
pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect
such things among them; and this, indeed, is the ad-
vantage with which-all their greatness, and power is re-
presented to us; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all;
for, as I have said of their ships- so it may be said of
their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
though they were to bring two millions of men into
the sield together, would be able tO'do nothing butruin
the cou ry, and ilarve themselves. If they were to
besiege a llrong town in Flanders, or 10 sight a disci-
plined army, one line < f German cuiralirers, or of
French cavalry, uould overthrow all the horse of Ghira;
a million of their soot could not stand before on - . in-
battled body of our insantry, posted so as not to b . ur-
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in
number; nay, I do not boast if I say, that 30,000
German or English foot, and i0,000 French horse,
would fairly beat all the forces of .China. And so of
our fortisied towns, and of the art of our Engineers, in
assaulting and desending towns; there is not a fortified
town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries aad attacks of an European army; and at
the fame time, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starved: no, not in ten years siege. They have sire-
arms, it is true, but they are aukward, clumsy, and
uncertain in going off; they have powder, but it is of
no strength; they have neither discipline in the sield,
exercise in their arms, skill to attack, or temper to re-
treat; and therefore I must consess it seemed strange to
me when I came home, and heard our people say such
sine things of the power, riches, glory, magnisicence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew that
they were a contemptible herd or croud of ignorant
sordid staves, subjected to a government qualisied only
to rule such a people; and, in a word, for I am now
launched quite beside my design, I say, in a word, were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
were not the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a croud of slaves as they, the czar of
Muscovy might, with much ease, drive them all out of
their country, and conquer them in one campaign;
and had the czar, who I since hear is a growing prince,
and begins to appear formidable in the world, fallen
this way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
Which attempt none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him ; he might, by this time, have
been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the
king of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their gran-
deur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry,
is impersect and impotent, compared to the fame things
in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning,
their skill in the sciences, they have globes and spheres,
and a sinatch of the knowledge of the mathematics;
bat when you come to enquire into their knowledge,
K. 2 how
how lhort-sighted are the wisest of their students?
they know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies; and so grofly, absurdly ignorant, that when the
sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they fall a clattering
with all the drums and kettles in the country, tofright
the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of
bees.
As this is the only excursion of this kind which I
have made in all the account I have given of my
travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of coun-
tries and people: it is none of my business or any part
iof my design: but giving an account of my own ad-
'Ventures, through a lise of insinite wanderings, ar.d
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, sew have
heard the like of, I shall fay nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them will make
necessary. I was now, as near as I can compute, in
the heart of China, about the--latitude of thirty de-'
grees »orth of the line, for we were returned from
Nanquin: I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin,
which I had heard so much of, and father Simon impor-
tuned me daily to do it; at length his time of going
away being set, and the other missionary, who was to
go with him, being arrived from Macao, it was neces-
sary that we should resolve either to go, or not to go;
so I reserred him to my partner, and /eft it wholly to
his choice; who, at length, resolved it in the affirma-
tive; and we prepared our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, as to sinding the way; for
we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate,
in the province where they reside, and who take great
state upon them, travelling with great attendance, and
uith great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, because all the
countries they pass through are obliged to surnish
provisions for them, and all their attendants. That
which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses,
from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had after
the market-price of the country, and the mandarin's
steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it
duly from us, so that our travelling in the retinue of
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness ta-
us, was not iuch' a mighty savour in him, but was,
indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other people travelling in the same
manner beside-; us, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, I faiy,
was a great advantage to him, for his country surnished
ali the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money
for them.
We were sive and twenty days travelling to Pekin,
through a country insinitely populous, but miserably
cultivated, the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though they boast so much
of the industry of the- people ; I fey, miserable; and
so it is, if we, who understand how to live, were to
endure it, or to compare it with our own, but not so to
these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride
of these people is insinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which
I call t.eir misery. I must needs think the naked savages
of h r irica live much more happy, because, a* they
have nothing, so they desire nothing ; whereas these are
proud sihI insolent, and, in the main, are mere besjpars
111 • ... ^.^J.
and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible, .and ii
chiefly mewed in theic clothes ar.d buildings, and in the
keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which i«
to the last decree ridiculous, their ccatempt of all the
world bet themselves.
I must consest, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary,
than here; and yet the roads here are wei! paved, and
v/cll kept, and very convenient for travellers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to see such an
haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed
K 3 - ingenuity
ingenuity is no more. My friend, sather Simon, and I,
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of those people , for example, coming
by the house of a country gentleman, as sather Simon-
called him, about ten leagues off from the city of Nan-
quin, we had, sirst of all, the honour to ride with the
master of the house about two miles; the state he rode
in was a persect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of
pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a
scaramouch, or merry-andrew; being a dirty callico*
with all the tawdry-trappings of a fool's coat, such as
hanging-sleeves, taffety, and cuts and slashes almost oa
every side; it covered a rich taffety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testisied, that his honour must needs
be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling crea-
ture,- such as in England might sell for about thirty or
forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature along 5 he had a whip
in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as sast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail: and thus he
rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we
were told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before uc. We travelled on
gently, but this sigure of a gentleman rode away before
us; and as we stopped at a village about an hou; to re-
fresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door,
eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand,
that the more we looked on him, the better he would be
pleased. - .
He sat under a tree, something like the palmettotree,
which essectually shaded him over the head, aiid on the
south lide ; but under the tree also was placed a large
umbrella, which made that part look well enough:
he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair, be-
ing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being
brought him by two women slaves, he had two more
whose osfice, I think, sew gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, viz. one sed the 'squire with a
spoon.
spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
icraped off what he let sall upon his worship's beard,
and taffcty vest, with the other; while the great sat
brute thought it below him to employ his own hands in
any of those samiliar offices, which kings and monarchs
-Hould rather do than be troubled with the clumsy singeri
of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus
ill-managed, must be to a man of common sense;
and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey; only sather Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had
to seed on, in all his state; which he said he had the
honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose
that an English hound would scarce have eaten, if it had
been offered him, viz. a mess of boiled rice, with a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag silled with green
pepper, and another plant which they have there, some-
thing like^our ginger, but smelling like mulk, and
ta!ting liW mustard; all this was put together, and a
small lumjt or piece of lean mutton boiled in it; and this
wa- his worship's repast, four or sive servants more at-
tending at a diilance. If he sed them meaner than he
was sed himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very
coarsely indeed.
As for; oar mandarin, with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a king ; surrounded always with his
.genllemeii, and attended in all his appearances with
such pomp, that 1 saw little or'hirn but at a distance ; but
this I observed, that there was not a horse in his
retinue, but that our carriers pack-horses in England
seem to me to look much better ; but they were so cover-
ed with equipage, mantles,- trapping;, and such like
trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are sat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but
their seet and their heads.
I was new light hearted, and all my trouble and
perp'exity that I had given an account of being over,
I had no anxious thoughts about me; which made this
K 4 journey
journey much the pleasanter to me; nor had I any iR
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
small river, my horse sell, and made me free cf the
country, as they call it; thati- to fay, threw me in ; the
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over : I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket*! ook, wherein I had set
down the names cf several people and places which I had
occasion to remember, and which not taking due care
of, the leaves rotted, and the words were never after
to be read, to my great loss, as to the names of some
places which I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with
me but the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. Asfcr
the Portuguese Pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we gave hirn his passage, that is to fay, bore his charges
for his comp.-.iiy; and to use him as an interpreter, for
he ur.deiiiood the language of the country, and spoke
good French, and a little English ; and, indeed, this old
man uas a most usesul implement to us every vhere;
fer we. had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing; Ah, Seignior Jnglese, laid he, I have
I'orr.ething to tell you, will make your heart glad. My
heart glad! sa:d I; what can that be ? I don't know
^ny thing in this country can cither give me joy or
giief, to any great degree. Yes, yes, laid the old man,
in broken English, make you glad, me sorrow; sorry
he w<?uld have said. This made me more inquisitive.
Why,'said I, will it make you lorry? Because, said he,
you have, brought me here twenty-sive days journey,
and v.ill leave me to go back alcne; and which way
shall I get to iny port afterwards, without a strip, with-
out a horse, without pecune? So lie called money;
Lting his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to
make ts merry with.
In sboit, he told us there was a great caravan cf
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and they5
were preparing to set but'on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or sive weeks, and he was lure
'v.e would take the opportunity to go with thtm, and
leave
leave hiiia behind to go back all alone. I consess, I
was surprised with this news : a secret joy spread itself
over my whole soul, which. I cannot describe, and never
selt before or since; and I had bo power, for a good
while, to speak a word to the old man: but at last I
turned to him: Ho.vdo you know this? said I: are
you sure it is true? Yes, said he, I met this morning, in
the street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
or one you call a Grecian, who is among them ; he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to ge to Tonquia
where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind,
and is now resolved to go back with the caravan t^
Muscow, and so down the river of Wolga to Astracan.
Well, Seignior, said I, do not be uneasy about being
left to go bask alone: if this be a method for my re-
turn to England, it shall be your fault if you go back
to Macao at all. We then went to consulting together
what was to be done, and asked my pirtner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it wculdsuit
with his affairs ? He told me he would do just as I would
for he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and
left his effects in such good hands, that as we made a
good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks,
wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carriage,
lie would be content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his
charges to Muscow, or to England, if he pleased ; nor,
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
part neither, if we had not rewarded him farther; for
the service he had done us was really worth all that,
and more: for he had not only been a pilot to us at
sea,' but he had been also like a broker for us Ost
shore : and his procuring for us the Japan merchant, was
some hundred of pounds in our pockets. So we consult-
ed together about it: and, being willing to gratify him,
u»h;ch was, indeed, but doing him justice, and very
willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him a quantity of coined gold, which as 1 com-
K's' pute \
pate it, came to about 175 pounds sterling between us,
and to bear his charges, both for himself and horse,
except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
to let him know what we had resolved; 1 told him, he
had complained of our being like to let him go back
alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he
should not go back at all: that as we had resolved to
go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he
should go with us, and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and 'said it was a long
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither,
nor to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
him, we believed it wa< so, and therefore we had re-
solved to do something for him, that mould let him
see how sensible we were of the service he had done
ns; and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which
he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that as
for his charges, if he would'go with us, we would
set him sase ashore, (lise and casualties excepted)
either in Muscovy, or in England, which he would,
at our own charge, except only the carriage of his
goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us, he would go with us over the whole world;
and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the jour-
ney. However, as it was with us, so it was with
the other merchants, they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in sive weeks, it was four
months and some odd days before ail things were got
together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
set out from Pekin; my partner and the old pilot had
gone express back to the port where we had sirst put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there;
and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on
his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought
ninety pieces of sine damasks, with nbout two hundred
pieces of other very sine silks, of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had all these bicught to Pekin
against
against ray partner's return: besides this, we bought
a very large- quantity of raw silk, and some other
goods: our cargo amounting, in these goods only,
to about three thousand sive hundred pounds ster-
ling, which, together with tea, and some sine cal-
licoes, and three camel-loads of nut-megs and cloves,
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our
retinue. »
The company wa< very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred horses
and camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty
men, very well armed, and provided for all events.
For, as the eastern caravans are subject to bz attacked
hy the Arabs, so are these by tile Tarters; but they are
not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor io barba-
rous when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly ; for there were about sixty of
them who were merchants or inhabitants of Muscow,
though of them some were Livonians, and to our parti-
cular satissaction, sive of them were Scots, who appeared
a'fo to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were sive in number, called all the gentle-
men and merchants; that is to say, all the passengers,
except the servants, to a great council, as ti.ey termed
it. At this great council, every one deposited a certain
quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary expence of buying forage on the way, where it
was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and tae like. And here they
constituted the journey, as they called it, viz. They
named captains and officers to draw us ail up, and give
the command in case os an attack, and gave every one
.their turn of command. Nor was this forming us into
order any more than what we found needful upon the
way, as shall be oblerved in its place.
The
The road all on this side of the country is very po-
pulous, and is sull of potters, and earth-makers, that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China
ware; and, as I was going along, our Portuguese pi-
lot, who'had always something or other to say to make
ns merry, came sneering tome, and told me, he would
shew the greatest rarity in all the country; and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-hu-
moured things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing
which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was
very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
me, it was a gentleman's house, built all with China
ware. Well, said I, are not the material' of their
building the product of their own country; and so' it i»
all China ware, it is not? No, no, says he, I mean,
it is a house all made of China ware, tuch as you call
so jn England: or, as it is called in our country, por-
celain. Well, said I, such a thing may be: How
big is it: Can we carry it in a bcx upon a camel? If
we can, we will buy it. Upon a camel! said the old
pilot, holding up both his hands, why there is a samily
of thirty people lives in it.
I was then curious, indeed, to see it: and when I came
to it, i&was nothing but this: it was a timber house,
or a house built, as we call it in England, with lath
and plaister, but all the plaistering was really China
ware, that is to say, it was plaistered with the earth that
makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, persectly white, and paint-
ed with blue sigures, as the large China ware in England
is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to-
the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined
up with hardened and painted tiles, like the little square
tiles we call gally-tiles in England, all made of the
sinest China, and the sigures exceeding sine indeed,
with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold,
many tiles making but one sigure, but joined so artisi-
cially with mortar being made of the seiae earth, that
it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The'
jloors of the rooms were of the same composition,
and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in
- -- several
several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Not-
tinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c. as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller
room«, like closets, which were all as it were paved
with the fame tile; the cielings, and in a word, all the
plaistering-work in the whole house, were of the same
earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles
-of the fame, but of a deep mining black.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and lite-
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the
journey, I could have stayed some days to see and ex-
amine the particulars of it. They told me there were'
fountains and sish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the
bottom and sides with the fame, and sine statues set up
in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain-
earthy and burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
may be allowed to excel in it; birt I am very sure they
excel in their accounts of it; for they told.me such
incredible things of their performance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that 1 care not to relate, as know-
ing it could not be true ; one told me, in particular, of
a workman that made a ship, with all its tackle,'
and masts, and fails, in earthen ware, big enough to
carry sifty men. If he had told me he launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole-
story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word,
that the sellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to
it. '.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan,
for which the leader of it for the day sined me about'
the value of three shillings; and told me, if it had
been three days journey without the wall, as it was
three days within, he must have sined me four times as
much, and made me ask pardon the next council
day, sol promised to be more orderly; for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all
together were absolutely necessary for our common
sasety.
made for a fortisication against the Tartars : and a very
In two da-

passed the great China wall,
ROBINSON CRUSdE-
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or,
indeed, climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us, its'length is near a thou-
sand Engfish miles, but that the country u sive hun-
dred in a strait measured line, which the wall bounds,
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes;
'tis about four fathom high, and as many thick in feme
places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without tres-
passing on cur t rders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I fa) , I stood still an hour to look at
it on every iidc, near, and far off, I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been ext- lling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
tars, which he happened not to understand as I meant
it, and so took it tor a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed; O Seignior Inglele, said he you speak in co-
lours. In colours! said I: what do you mean by
that? Why you speak what locks white this way, and
black that way; gay one way, and dull another way;
yon tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars;
you tell me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep
out Tartars; or, it will keep out none but Tartars: I
understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand you, said
he, joking; but Seignior Chinese understand you hi*
own way.
Well, said I, Seignior, do you think it would stand
Out an army of our country people, with a good train
©f artillery; or our engineers, with two compa-
nies of miners? Would they not batter it down in ten
days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow
it up into the air, foundation and all, that there should
be no sign of it left? Ay, ay, said he, 1 know that.
The Chinese wanted mightly to know what I laid,
and I gave him leave to tell him a sew days after,
for we were then almost out of their country, and
he was to leave us in a little time afterwards; but when
he knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest
J of
of way, and we heard no more of his sine story of
the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
After we had pasted this mighty Nothing, called a
wall, something like the picts wall, so famous in Nor-
thumberland, and built by the Romans, we began to
sind the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
consined to live in fortisied towns and cities, as being
subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars,
who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be re-
sisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began to sind the necessity of keeping to-
gether in a caraven, a< we travelled ; for we saw several
troops of Tartars roving about; but when 1 came to see
them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese em-
pire could be conquered by such contemptible sellows;
for they are a mere herd or croudof wild sellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, or man-
ner of sight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught
nothing, and are sit for nothing; and this we found
.the sirst day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country; our leader for the day
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting as
they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the crea-
tures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I
saw of their kind; only they will not run a great way,
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chace;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a flock,
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
In pursuit of'this odd fort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very
loud, but with a barbarous found that I had never
heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear
again. We all supposed this was to call their friends
about them; and so it was; for in less than half a
quartetf of an hour a troop of forty or sifty more
appeared
appeared at about a mile distance, but our work was
over sirst, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Muscow happened to
be amongst us: and as soon as he heard the horn, he
told us, in short, that we had nothing to do, but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and,
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were resolved;
We told him, We were ready to follow him: so he
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like
a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shewing the
sace of any order at all; but as soon as they saw us ad-
vance, they let fly their arrows: which, however, mif-
fed us very happily; it seems they mistook not their
aim, but their distance: for their arrows all sell a little
short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we been
about 20 yards nearer, we must have had several men-
wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted: and though it was at a
great distance, we sired, and sent them leaden bullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot sull gallop,
resolving to sall in among them sword in hand: for
so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and
bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool
courage too, that I never saw any man in action sitter
for command. As soon as we came up to them, we
sired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but
they fled in the grea:est consusion imaginable: the only
stand any of them made was on our right, where
three of thera stood, and, by signs, called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of feymitar in
their hands, and their bows hanging at their backs.
Our brave commander, without asking any body to
foHow him, galloped up close to them, and with his
fusil knocked one of them osf his horse, killed the
feoond with his pistol, and the third ran away : and thus
ended our sight; but we had this misfortune attending
it, vi2. that all our mutton that we had in chace .
got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as
for the Tartars, there were about sive of them killed :'
how manywere wounded, we knew not: but this we
knew,
knew, that the other party was so frighted with the noifc
of our guns, that they fled, and never made any at-
tempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards:
but in about sive days we entered a vast great wild de-
sert, which held us three days and nights march; and
we were obliged to carry our water with us in great
leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have
heard they do in the deserts of Arabia.
I asked our guides, whose dominion this was in?
and they told me, this was a kind of border that
might be called No Man's Land; being part of the
Great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; but that how-
ever, it was reckoned to China; that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves {
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert m the
whole march, though we were to go over some much,
larger.
In pasting this wilderness, which, I consess, was at
the sirst view very frightsul to me, we saw two or three
times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be
upon their own affairs, and to have no deiign upon us;
and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had
Homing to fay to us, we had nothing to soy to them; we
let them go.
Once, however, a party of them came so near as to
stand andjraze at us ; whether it was to consider what
ROBIKSO N CRUSOE.
we knew not; but when we were passed at seme dis-
tance by. them, we made a rear-guard of forty men,
and iioed ready for them, letting the caravan pass half
a mile, or thereabout;, before us; after awhile they
marched off, only we sound they assaulted us with sive
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a horse,
so that it disabled him ; and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in great need of a good farrier ; we sup-
pose they might shoot more arrows, which might fall
short of us; but- \ve saw no more arrows, or Tartars, at
that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being
BOt so good as at sirst, though still in the dominions of
tli
ADVENTURES OF
the Emperor of China; bat lay, for the most part, in
villages, some of which were fortisied, because of the
incursions of the Tartars. When we came ta one of
these towns (it was about two days and an half's jour-
ney before we were to come to the City of Naum),
I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty
to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses
also, such as they are, because so many caravans com-
ing that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to, to get rr.e a camel, would have gone
and setched it for me; but 1, like a fool, must be
ofsicious, and go myself along with him. The place
was about two miles out of the village, where it seems,
they kept the camels and horses seeding under a
guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being desirous, forsooth, of a little
variety. When we came to this place, it was a low
marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled
up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors;
having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I
came away; and the Chinese man, that went with me,
led the camel, when on a sudden came up sive Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the scllow, and
took the camel from him, while the other three
stepped up to me, and my old pilot ; seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but
my sword, which could but ill desend me against three
horseman. The sirst that came up, stopped short upon
my drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards):
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow
on the head, which I never sc!t till afterward, and
wondered, when I came to myself, what was the mat-
ter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat on the
ground , but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese
(so Providence unlocked for directs deliverances firm
dangers, which to us are unsoreseen), had a pistol in his
pocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars nei-
ther; if they had, I suppose they would net have at-
tacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there
is no danger.
The
'The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the sellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down
by main force a little towards him with the other, he
shot him into the head, and laid him dead on the spot;
he then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped
us, as I said, and before he could come forward again
(for it was all done as it were in a moment) made a
blow at him with ascymitar, which he always wore j
but, miffing the man, cut his horse into the side of his
head, cut one of his ears osf by the root, and a great
slice down the side of his sace. The poor beast, en-
raged with the wounds, was no more to be governed
by his'rider, though the sellow sat well enough too ; but
away he flew, and carried him cjuite out of the pi-
lot's reach, and at some distance rising upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar, and sell upon him.
in this interval the poor Chinese came iu, who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon ; however, seeing
the Tartar down, and his horse sallen upon him, he runs
to him, and, seizing upon an ugly ill-savoured weapon
he had by his side, something like a pole-ax, but not a
pole-ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But toy
old man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and,
seeing he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to
sight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock-still, the
old man stood still too and salls to work with his
tackle to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the
same or another, I know not, but away he scoured, and
left my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a
complete victory.
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought,
when I sirst began to awake, that I had been in a sweet
sleep; but as 1 said above, I wondered where I was,
how I came upon the ground, and what was the mat-
ter; in a word, a sew minutes after, as sense returned,
I selt pain, tho' I did not know where; I clapped my
hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I
selt my head ach; and then, in another moment, me-
mory
mory returned, and every thing was present to ote
again. «
I jumped up upon my seet instantly, and got hold oF
my sword, but no enemies in view. I found a Tartar
lie dead,1' and his horse standing very quietly by him
and, locking farther, I saw my champion and deliverer,
who had been to see what the Chineie had done, com-
ing back with his hanger in his hand; the old man,
seeing me on my seet, came running to me, and em-
braced me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before
that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would
see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
call a broken head; neither did I afterwards sind any
great inconvenience from the blow other than the place
which was hurt, and which was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory;
for we lost a camel, and gained a horse; but that which
was remarkable, when we came back to the village,
the man demanded to be paid for the camel: I disputed
it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chi-
nese Judge of the place: that is to iay, in English, we
went before a justice of the peace. Give him his
due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality^ and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked
the Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was? I am no servant, said he, but
went with the stranger. At whose request? said the
justice. At the stranger's request, said he. Why then
said the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his
servant, wit as delivered to him, and he must pay for
it.
I consess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word
to say : but admiring to see such just reasoning upon the
consequence, and so accurate stating the case, 1 paid
willingly for the qamel, and sent for another: but you
may observe, I sent for it: I did not go to setch it my-
self any more : I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire : they call it fortisied, and so it is, as'fortisications
go there: for this I will venture to affirm, that all the
Tartars
Tartars in Karakathay, which I believe, are some mil-
lions, could not batter down the walls with their bows
and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it
laugh at you.
We wanted, ai I have said, about two days journey
of this city, when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road, to tell all travellers ana caravans to
halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for that an
unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
Jiad appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers: however, it
was caresully done of the governor, and we were very
glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly
two days after, we had 200 soldiers sent us from a gar-
rison of the Chinese on our lest, and three hundred more
from the city of Naum, and with those we advanced
boldly: the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched
in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men
on each side of our camels with our baggage, and the
whole rararan in the center; in this order, and well
prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for
the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had ap-
peared; but the next day, when they did appear, it
Wi.s quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when marching from a
little well-situated town, called Changu, we had a river;
to pass, wh'ere we were obliged to serry; and had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the
time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear
there.
About three hours after, when we were entered upon
a desert of about i5 or 16 miles over, behold, by a cloud
of dust they raised, we saw an enemy wa- at hand; and
they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the
spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked
so big the day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them ; which is a certain sign
in a soldier, that he is just ready to run away. My
old
old pilot was of ray mind; and^.^iilft- near me, he
called out, Seignior IngleTe.'Yaid he, those sellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us afl; for if the Tar-
tars come on, they will never stand it. I am of your
mind, said 1: but what course must be done? Done,
laid he, let sifty of our men advance, and slank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will light
like brave sellows in brave company; but without it
they will every man turn his back. Immediately 1 rode
up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly sifty of us marched to the right
wing, and sifty to the left, and the rest made a line of
reserve , for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
dred men to make another body to themselves, and to
guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
send an hundred men to assist the last sifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
ten thousand we thought was the least. A party of
them came on sirst, and viewed our posture, traversing
the ground in the front of our line; and as we found
them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings
to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot, which was done; but they went oft,
and I'suppose went back to give an account of the re-
cepti6n they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that
salute clogged their stomachs; for they immediately
halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling off
to the. left, they gave over the design, and said no more
to us for that time, which was very agreeable to our
circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a
battle with such a number.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or
Naunm; we thanked the governor for his care for us,
and collected to the value of loo crowns, or there-
abouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us:
and here we rested one day . This is a garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here ; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers
ky nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandoned that part of the country (which lies from
the city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate
2 and
and ur.sit for us*?^and more especially, being so very
remote, and so difficult to send troops hither for its de-
fence ; for we had yet above two thousand miles to Mus-
covy, properly so called.
After thiswe passed several great rivers, and two
dreadsul deserts, one of which we were sixteen days pas-
sing over, and which, as I said, was to be called No
Man's land; and on the the 13th of April, we came to
frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the sirst
city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be called,
that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Ar-
gun, being on the west side of the river Argun.
I could not but discover an insinite satissaction, that I
was now arrived in, as I called it a christian country;
or, at least, in a country governed by christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just de-
serve the name of christians; yet fcch they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their way. . It would cer-
tainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have
done, and who had any power of reflection; I say, it
would occur to him to reflect, what a blessing it is to
be brought into the world where the name of God,
and of a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored,
and not where the people, given up by heaven to
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate them-
selves to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements,
horrible shaped animals, and statues, or images of
monsters. Not a town or city we passed through but
had their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and
ignorant people worshipping even the works of their
own hands.
Now we came where, at least, a sace of the christian
worship appeared, where the knee was bowed to Je-
sus; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God
was called upon, and adored; and it made the very
recesses of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave
Scotch Merchant I mentioned above, with my sirst ac-
knowledgment of this; and, taking him by the hand,
1 laid to him, blessed be God, we are once again come
among christians. He smiled, and answered, do not
rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are
tiut an odd sort of christians; and but for the name of
it, you may see very little of the substance for some
months farther of our journey.
Well, said I, but still'tis better than paganism, and
-worshipping of devils. Why, I'll teli you, said he;
-except the Ruffian soldiers in garrisons , and a sew of
'the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, ali the- rest:
of this country, for above a- thousand miles farther, ii
inhabited by the worst, and most ignorant of pagans;
and so indeed we found it.
• -. We were- now launched into the greatest piece of solid
earth, if I understand any thing of the surface of the
globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
: we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea, east-
ward; we had at least two thousand to the bottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; snd almost three thousand
-miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the British-
and French channels; we had sull sive thousand mile*
to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the frozen sea, north; nay, if some
people may be believed,,there might be no sea north-
east till we came round the pole, and consequently into
. the north west, and so had a continent of land into
America, no mortal knows where; though I could-
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake
-too.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good
while before we came to any considerable town, we
had nothing to observe there but this; sirst, that all the
rivers run to the east. As I understood by the charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
i plain that all those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural
t course of it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese
ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choaked up with bulrushes of a monstrous
growth, viz. three seet about, and twenty or thirty
• seet high, 1 must be allowed to fay, I believe nothing
of; but as its navigation is of no use, .because there M
no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it
belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle; so nobody that
ev«r I head of, has been curious enough either to
go down to the mouth of it in boats* or come up from
the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river running due east, in the latitude of 60 degrees,
carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and sinds
an ocean to empty itself in that latitude; so we are sure
of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of this river there are se-
veral considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north
• as the Yamonr runs east; and these are all found to join
their waters with the great rivers Tartarus, named so
from the northernmost nations Of the Mogul Tartars,
who, the Chinese say, were the sirst Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers alledge, are the Gog and
Magog mentioned in sacred story.
The rivers running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident,
that the northern ocean bounds the land also on that
side ; so that it does not seem rational in the least to
think; that the land can extend itself to join with
America on that side, or that there is not a communi-
cation between the northern and the eastern ocean;
but of this I shall say no more; it was my observation
at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna by
easy and moderate journies, and were very visibly
obliged to the care the czar of Muscovy has taken, to
have cities and towns built in as many places as are
possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison,
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Ro-
mans in the remotest countries of their empire, some of
which I had read were particularly placed in Britain for
the security of commerce, and for the lodging of tra-
vellers; and thus it was here; for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and
governor were Ruffians, and prosessed mere pagans, sa-
crisicing to idols, and worshipping the fun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven: and not only so, but
were of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not
eat men's flesh, as our savages of America did.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite domi-
Vql.II L niea*-
nions, and a city of Tartars and Ruffians together, cal-
led Nertzinskay; in which space is a contined desert or
forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over it. In
a village, near the last of those places, I had the curi-
osity to go and see their way of living; which is most
brutish and unsusterable; they had, 1 suppose, a great
sacrisice that day ; for there stood out upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightsul as the devil;
at least as any thing we can think of to represent the
devil can be made ; it had an head certainly not so
much resembling any creature that the world ever saw;
ears as big as goats horns, and as high; eyes as big as
a crown piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill;
it was dressed up in the silthiest manner that you can
suppose; its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it; it was about eight seet
high, yet had no seet or legs, or any other proportion
of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the out-side of the vil-
lage; and when 1 came near to it, there were sixteen
or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all flat on the
ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood.
I saw no motion among them any more than if they
had been logs of wood like their idol; at sirst I really
thought they had been so; ..but when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their seet; and raised an
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased at
our disturbing them. A little way off from this mon-
ster, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers;
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, I found the; had long knives in their hands,
arid in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep
killed, and one young bullock, or steer. These, it
seems, were sacrisices to that senseless log of an idol;
and these three men priests belonging to it; and the se-
venteen
venteen prostrated wretches were the people who
brought the offering, and were making their prayers to
that stock.
I consess I was more moved at their stupidity, and
this brutish worship of an hobgoblin, than ever I was-
at any thing in my lise; to see God's most glorious
and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his maker, and be honoured by him;
I fay, to see it sunk and degenerated to a degree so
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightsul no-
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and
that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought
up in hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, en-
vying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surseiting,
sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
shock nature itself.
But what signisied all the astonishment and reflection
of thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my
eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage; ar.d
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by
one of the horns; and one of our men that was with
me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and
pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three'
hundred people came about my ears, so that 1 was
glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
again.
Our caravan rested three nights at this town, which
was about four miles off, in TSrder to provide some
horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way,
L 2 and
and our long march over the last desert; so we had
some leisure here to put my design in execution. I
communicated my project to the Scots merchant of
Moscow, of whose courage I had a sufficient testimony,
as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had since thought, that human nature
cftuld be so degenerate. I told him, I was resolved, if
I could get but four or sive men well armed to go with
me, to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol: to~
let them see, that it had no power to help itself,
and consequently could not be an object of wor.hip, or
to be prayed to, much less help them that offered sacri-
sices to it.
He laughed at me ; said he, Your zeal may be good;
but what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
said I, to vindicate the honour of God, which is in-
sulted by this devil-worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the honour of God? said he, while the people
will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them too, and tell them so; and
then they will sight you too, I will assure you; for
they are desperate sellow:, and that especially in de-
sence of their idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons in writing,
in their own language? Writing! said he, why there
is not in sive nations of them, one man that knows any
tiling of a letter, or how to read a word in any langu-
age, or in their own. Wretched ignorance! said I
to him ; however, I have a great mind to do it; perhaps
nature may draw inserences from it to them, to let them
fee how brutish they are to.worship such horrid things.
Lo k you, Sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so
warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected, by force, to the czar of Muscovy's do-
minions ; and is you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nenzinskay, and
complain, and demand satissaction: and if he cannot
give liiem satissaction, «i is ten to one but they revolt, and
it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in the
country.
2 This,
Thi-, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for
a w.hile; but I harped upon the same string still; and
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met
me by accident in our walk about the town, and de-
sired to speak with me: I believe, said he, I have put
you off your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since; for I abhor the idol and idola-
try as much as you can do. Truly, said 1, you hav„
put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you have
not put it all out of my thoughts; and, I believe, I
shall do it still before I quit this place, though I were
to be delivered up to them for satissaction.. No, no,
said he ; God forbid they should deliver you. up to such a
crew of monsters! they shall not do that neither;
that would be murdering you indeed. Why, said I,
how would they use me i Use you! said he; I'll tell
you how they served a poor Ruffian, who affronted them
in their worship just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that
he could not run away; they took him and stripped him
stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol mon-
ster, and stood all round him, and shot as many arrows
into him as would stick over his whole body ; and then
they burnt him and all the arrows sticking in him-, as a
sacrisice to the idol. And was this the same idol?
said I, Yes, said he, the very same. Well, saia I,
J will tell you a story : so I related the story of cur men
at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the vil-
lage there, and killed man, woman, and.child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, I added, that I thought we ought
to do so to this village,
He listened Very attentively to the story; but when
I talked of doing to to that village, said he, you mis-
take very much; it wa-s not this village, it was almost
a hundred miles from this place; but it was the same
idol, for they carry him about in procession all- over
the country. Well, said I, then that idol ought to be
punished for it; and it shall, said I, if I live this night
out.
L 3 In
In a word, sinding me resolute, he liked the design,
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go
with me; but he would go sirst, and bring a stout sel- ,.
low, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; and'
one, said he, as famous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these. In
a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he ca'led captain Richardson; and I gave him a sull
account of what I had seen, and also of what I intend-
ed; and he told me readily, he would go with me, if
it cost him his lise. So we agreed to go, only we three.
I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner; bat he de-
clined it. He laid, he was ready to aslist me to the ut-
most, and upon all occasions, for my desence; but that
this was an adventure quite out of his way: so, I say,
we resolved upon our work, only we three, and my
man-servant, and to put it in execution that night about
midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being
to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his power; the Scots merchant,
as steady in his resolution to enterprize it, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-
skins, and a bonnes, with a bow and arrows, and had
provided the fame for himself and his countryman, that
the people, if they saw us, should not be able to deter-
mine who we were.
All the sirst night we spent in mixing up some- com-
bustible matter with aqa-vitæ, gunpowder, and such
other materials as we could get; and, having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night,
and found that the people had not the least jealousy of
danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy ; yet
the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol
stood just in the fame posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest , only,
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where
we
247
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butch-
ers, we saw a light, and, going up close to the door,
we heard people talking, as is' there were sive or six
of them; we concluded therefore, that if we set wild-
sire to the idol, these men would come out immediate-
ly, and run up to the place to rescue it from the de-
struction that we intended for it: and what to do with
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it
away, and setting sire to it at a distance; but when
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second
Scotsman was for setting sire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out; but I could not join with that;
I was against killing them, if it was impossible to be
avoided.' Well then, said the Scots merchant, 1 will
tell you what we will do; we will try to take them pri-
soners, tie their hands, and make them stand and fee
their idol destroyed.
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough
about uc, which we used to tie our sire-works together
with; so we resolved to attack these people sirst, and
with as little noise as we could. The sirst thing we did,
we knocked at the door, when one of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him and led him to
the idol, were we gagged him, that he might not make
a noise; tied his seet also together, and left him on the
ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was;
but we waited so long till the third man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked again
gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
Served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some distance from one another; when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the door, ^nd
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant
went in after him, and taking out a composition we
L4 had
had matk, that would o»ly smcke and stink, he set
sire to it, and threw it in among them; by that time
the other Scotchman and my man taking charge of the
two men already bound, and tied together allo by the
arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there,
to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste
back to us.
When the Furze we had thrown in had silled the hut
with so much smoke that they were almost suffocated,
we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we
found there were but four people left, who, it seems,
were two men and two women, and, as we supposed,
had been about some of their diabolic sacrisices. They
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to
sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither,
for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
ether, and all without any noise. J should have said,
we brought them out of the house, or hut, sirst; for,
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more
than they were. When we had done this, we carried
them altogether to the idol; when we came there we
sell to work with him; and sirst we daubed him all
over, and his robes also, with tar, and such other
siuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brim-
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth
sull of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great
piece of wildsire in his bonnet; and then sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him,
we looked aboHt to see if we could sind any thing else
to help to burn him: when my Scotsman remember-
ed, that by the tent, or hut, where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes
I do not remember: away he and the other Scotsman
ran, and setched their arms sull of that. When we had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their seet, and ungagged their
mouths, and made them stand up, and let diem just
before their monstrous idol, and then set sire to the
whole.
We
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it, and, in a word, till we saw
it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be soon
quite consumed, so we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said: No, we must not go ; for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the
sire, and burn themselves with the idol; so we resolved
to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then we
came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our scllow tra-
vellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;
nor could any man suggest that we had been any-
. where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed
to be to sit themselves for the fatigues of that day's
journey.
But it did not end so; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage, but of an hundred more, for aught I know, to
the town gates; and, in a most outrageous manner, de-
manded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaungu ; such an hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped : the people of Nert-
zinskay were at sirst in a great consternation: for, they
said, the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and
that in a sew days more, they would be i00,000
strong.
The Ruffian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of its and that there
had not a foul of his garrison been abroad: that it
could not be from any body there: and if they would
let him know who it was, they should be exemplarily
punished. They returned, haughtily, That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-'Chi-Thaungu, who
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to
offer violence to his image, but some Christian mis-
creant: so they called them, it seems, and they there-
I> 5 fore
fore denounced war against him, and all the Ruffians,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or to have any cause of war alledged to be given
by him, the czar having straightly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave
them still all the good words he could; at last he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morning, and, perhaps, it was some of them who had
done them this injury; and that, if they would be sa-
tissied with that, he would send after them, to enquire
into it. This seemed to applease them a little ; and ac-
cordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a
particular account how the thing was; intimating with-
al, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should
make their escape; but that, whether they had done it
or no, we should make all the haste forward that was
possible ; and that in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
any thing of the matter ; and, as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as
asked us the question; however, the captain of the ca-
ravan, for the time, took the hint that the governor
gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and
two nights without any considerable stop, and then
we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did we make
any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the czar of Muscovy's colonies,
and where we expected we should be sase; but it is to
be observed, that here we began, for two or three
dsys march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of
which I shall say more in its place; and which if we
had now been upon it, it is more than probable, we had
been all destroyed. It was the second day's march
from Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at
a great distance, some of our people began to be sen-
sible we were pursued; we had entered the desert, and
had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, when
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on
the other side of the lake to the north, we travelling
west. We observed they went away west, as we did;
but had supposed we should have taken that side of the
lake, whereas we very happily took the south side; and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to
the river Udda; this is a very great river when it passes
. • farther north; but when we came to it, we found it nar-
row and fordable.
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us,
towards the dusk of the evening. We had, to our
great satisfaction, justpitched upon a place for our camp
which was very convenient for the night; for as we
were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of
it, that was above sive hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but
the city Jarawena, which we had yet two days march
to; the desert, however, had some sew woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow streight between two
small, but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the
night.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued
for; but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go
about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always
fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to
be pursued.
But we had this night, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay between
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our
front; so that we could not be surrounded or attacked
any way, but in our front or rear; we took care also to
make our front as strong as we' coujd, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on the
inside of the river, and we selled some trees in our
rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy w^ upon us before we had sinished our situa-
tion: they did not come on us like thieves, as we
L 6 expects'
expected, but sent three messengers to ns, to demand
the men to be delivered to them, that had abused their
priefls, and burnt their god Cham-Chi Thaungu, that
they might burn them with sire; and, upon this, they
said, they would go away, and do us no sarther harm,
otherwise they would burn us all with sire. Our men
looked Very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in
their saces, but, nobody was the word,\ nobedy did it.
The leader of the caravan sent word, he was well as-
sured it was not done b) any of our camp; that we
were peaceable merchants travelling on our business;
that v. e had done no harm to them, or to any one else;
and therefore they must look sarther sor their enemies,
who had injured them, for we were not the people; so
desired them not to disturb us; for if they did, we should
desend ourselves.
They were sar from being satissied with this for an
answer, and a great crowd of them came down in the
morning by break of day, to our camp; but seeing
us in such an advantageous situation, they durst come no
sarther than the brook in our front, where theri
stood, and shewed us such a number, as, indeed, ter-
risied us very much; for those that spoke least of them
spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked
at us a while, and then setting up a great howl, they
let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well
enough fortisied for that, for we wefe sheltered under
our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of
us was hurt.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to
our right, and expected them on the rear, when a
cunning sellow, a Cossack as they call them, of Jara-
wena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader
of the caravan, said to him, I will send all these people
away to Sibeilka ; this was a city four or sive days
journey, at least, to the south, and rather behind
u». So he takes his bow and arrows; and, getting
on horseback,Tie rides away from our rear directly, as
it were, back to Nertzinskay; after this, he takes a
great circuit about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them
a long
a long story, that the people who had burnt their Cham-
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them; that is to say, Christiana;
and that they were resolved to burn the god Seal Isarg,
belonging to the Tonguses.
As this sellow was a mere Tartar, and persectly spoke
their language, he counterseited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they drove, in a most vio-
lent hurry, to Sibeilka, which it seems, was sive days
jsurney to the south, and in less than three hours they
were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any-
more of them, or ever knew whether they went to that
other place called Sibeilka, or no.
So we passed sasely on to the City of Jarawena,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites ; and there we
rested sive days, the caravan being exceedingly satigued
with the last day's march, and with want of rest in the
night.
From this city we had a frightsul desert, which held
u* three and twenty days march. We surnished our-
selves with some tents here, for the better accommodating
ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro-
cured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country, for
carrying our water and provisions; and these carriages
were our defence every night round our little camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able
to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after
this long journey; for, in this desert, we saw neither
house or tree, or scarce a bush; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the sable-hunters, as they call them; these are
all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country
is a part; and they srequently attack small caravans:
but we saw no numbers of them together. I was cu-
rious to see the sable-skins they catched: but I could
never speak with any of them; for they durst not come
near us, neither durst we straggle from our company to
go near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a
country pretty well inhabited; that is to say, we found
towns and castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with
garrison'
*J4
ADVENTURES OF
garrisons of stationary soldiers to protect the caravans,
and desend the country against the Tarters, who would
otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
Czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are
any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments of the
garrison are always sent to see travellers sase from sta-
tion to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots
merchant who was acquainted with him, ofsered us a
guard of sifty men if we thought there was any danger,
to the next station.
I thought long before this, that as we came nearer
to Europe, we should sind the country better peopled,
and the people more civilized; but I found myself mis-
taken in both, for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses
to pass through ; where we saw the same tokens of pa-
ganism and barbarity, or worse than before; only as
they were conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely re-
duced, they were not so dangerous ; but for the rudeness
of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in the
world ever went beyond them. They are clothed all in
the skins of beasts, and their houses are built of the
fame. You know not a man from a woman, neither by
the ruggednefs of their countenances, or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with
snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults,
which have cavities or caves going from one to ano-
ther.
If the Tartars had their Cham Chi Thaungu for a
whole village, or country, these had idols in every hut,
and every cave ; besides, they worship the stars, the sun,
the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thing that
they do not understand, and they understand bat very
little; so that almost every element, every uncommon
thing, sets them a sacrisicing.
But I am no more to describe people than countries,
any farther than my own.story comes to be concerned in
them. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all
this country, which, I reckon was, from the desert
which I spoke of last, at least, four hundred miles, half
of
255
of it being another desert, which took us up twelve
days severe travelling, without house, tree or bush ; but
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well
water as bread. After we were out of this desert, and
had travelled two days, we came to Janezay, a Mus-
covite city or station, on the great river Janezay. This
river, they told us, parted Europe from Asia, tho' our
map-makers, as I am told, do not agree to it; however,
it is certainly the eastern boundary of the antient Sibe-
ria, which now makes a province only of the vast Mus-
covite empire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole
empire of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still
prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the
country between the river Oby, and the river Janezay,
is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the
remotest of the Tartars, nay, as any nation, for aught I
know, in Asia, or America. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite governors, whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the pagans are not much
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being under the
Muscovite government; which they acknowledged was
true enough, but, they said, it was none of their busi-
ness; that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian,
or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by
sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they
added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not so much the concern of their monarch,
to make the people christians, as it was to make them
subjects.
From this river, to the great river Oby, we crossed 3
i wild uncultivated country; I cannot say'tis a barbarous
foil; 'tis only barren of people, and good manage-
ment; otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitsul,
and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in
it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them
from Russia; for this is the country I mean on both
sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals,
that are not put to death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to impossible they should ever come
away. *
I have
I have nothing material to say of my particular
affairs, till I came to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia.,
where I continued iome time on the following occa-
sion.
We had been now almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and *inter began to come on apace: whereupon
my partner and I called a council about our particular
affairs in which we found it proper, considering that
we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, to
consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
fledges and rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the
•winter-time : and, indeed, they have sucli things, as it
would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by
which means the Ruffians travel more in the winter tbaa
they can in summer; because in these fledges they are
able to run night and day: the snow being frozen, is
one universal covering to nature, by which the hills,
the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all Smooth, and
hard as a stone; and they run upon the sursace, without
any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey as
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route two ways: either I must go on as the ca-
ravan went, till I came to Jarislaw, and then go off
west for Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so either
by sea or land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell
my China cargo to good advantage,- or I must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence
I had but six days by water to Arch-Angel, and from
thence might be sure of shipping, either to England,
Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these journies in the winter-
would have been preposterous: for as to Dantzick, the
Balttck would be frozen up, and I could not get pas-
sage: and to go by land in those countries, was sar
less sase than among the Mogul Tartars: likewise to
Arch-Angel, in October all the ships would be gone
from thence, and even the merchants, who dwell
there in summer, retire south to Moscow in the winter,
when the ships are gone: so that I should have no-
thing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scar-
city of provisions, and must lie there in an empty town
all the winter; so that, upon the whole, I thought it
much my better way to let the caravan go, and to make
provision to winter where I was, viz. at Tobolflci, in
Siberia, in the latitude of sixty degrees, where I was
sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country afforded,
a warm house, with suel enough, and excellent com-
pany; of all which I shall give a sull account in its
place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved istand, where I never selt cold, except when I
had my ague ; on the contrary, I had much to do tp
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any
sire 'but without doors, and my necessity, in dress-
ing my food, &c. Now I made me three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them to hang down
to the seet, and button close to the wrists, and all
these lined with surs, to make them sufficiently
warm.
As to-* warm house, I must consess, I greatly dis-
like our way in England, of making sires in every
Toom in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the sire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a surnacfe, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a'stove; the sunnel to carry the smoke went up one
way, the door to come at the sire went in ano-
ther, and all the rooms were kept equally warm,
but no sire seen; like as they heat the bagnios in Eng-
land.
By this means we had always the fame climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within;
and yet we saw no sire, nor were ever incommoded with
any smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should
be possible to meet with good company here, in a coun-
try so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of
Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within but a very
sew degrees of Nova Zembla.
P
But this being the country where the state criminals
of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished;
this city was sull of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, co-
lonels, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry,
soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the fa-
mous Prince Galilfken, or Galoffken, and his son, the
old General Robostislcy, and several other persons of note
and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, whom, neverthe-
less, 1 parted with here, I made an acquaintance
ADVENTURES OF
of the sirst rank; and from these, in the long winter-
nights in which I stayed here, I received several
agreeable visits. It was talking one night with a cer-
tain prince, one of the banished ministers of state be-
longing to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my
particular case began. He had been telling me abun-
dance of sine things, of the greatness, the magnisi-
cence, and dominions, and the absolute power of
the emperors of the Rufsians. I interrupted him, and
told him, I was a greater and more powersul prince
than ever the Czar of Muscovy was, though my domi-
nions were not so large, or my people so many. The
Russian Grandee looked a little surprised, and sixing
his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I
meant.
I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, I told him, I had the absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects:
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not
one person disaffected to my government or to my
person, in all my dominions. He shook his head at
that, and said, There, indeed, I outdid the Czar of
Muscovy. I told him, that all the lands in my king-
dom were my own, and all my subjects were not only
my tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all
sight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant,
for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so uni-
versally beloved,- and yet so horribly seared, by his
subjects.
After
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for a while, I opened the case, and told them
the story at large of my living in the island, and how
I managed both myself and the people there that were
under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially
the prince, who told me with a sigh, that the true
greatness of lise was to be master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a state of lise as
mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found
more f elicity in the retirement he seemed to be banish-
ed to there, than ever he found in the highest autho-
rity he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar: that
the height ofihuman wisdom was to bring our tem-
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storm with-
out. When he came sirst hither, he said, he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from
his back, as others had done before him; but a little
time and- consideration had made him look into him-
self, as well as round himself, to things without:
that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal lise, and
how little this world was concerned in its true seli-
city, was persectly capable of making a selicity for
itself, sully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own
best ends and desires, with but very little assistance
from the world; that air to breathe in, food to sus-
tain lise, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exer-
cise, in order to health, compleated, in his opinion, all
that the world could do for us: and though the great-
ness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had
enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was agree-
able to us, yet he observed, that all those things chiefly
gratisied the coarsest of our affections: such as our
ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our va-
nity, and our sensuality; all which were, indeed, the
mere product of the worst part of man, were in them-
selves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all man-
ner of crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those virtues that constituted us
wise men, or of those graces which distinguished us as
Christians : that being now deprived of all the sancied
selicity, which he enjoyed in the sull exercise of all
those vices, he said, he was at leisure to look upon the
dark side of them, where he found all manner of defor-
mity ; and was now convinced, that virtue only make*
a man truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in
the way to a superior happiness in a suture state, and in
this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment
than all their enemies were, who had the sull possession
of all the wealth and power that they (the banished) had
left behind them.
Nor, sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politically
by the necessity of my circumstances, which some call
miserable ; but if I know any thing of myself, I would
not go back, no, not though my master, the Czar, mould
call me, and ofser to reinstate me in all my former gran-
deur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than 1 be-
lieve my sijul, when it shall be delivered from this
prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious
state beyond lise, would come back to the goal of flesh
and blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven to deal
in the dirt and grime of human affairs.
He spake this with so much warmth in his temper,
so much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which
were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident
it was the true sense of his soul; and, indeed, theie
was no room to doubt his sincerity.
J told him, 1 once thought myself a kind os a mo-
narch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, but that I } Dught he was not a monarch
only, but a great conquerer; for that he that has got a
victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the
absolute dominion over himself, and whose reason
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he
that conquers a city. But, my lord, said I, shall I take
theliberty to ask you a question? With all my heart,
said he. If the door of your liberty was opened, said
I, would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself from
this exile?
Hold,
Hold, said he, your question is subtle, and requires
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere an-
swer? and I'll give it you from the bottom of my
heart.' Nothing that 1 know of in this world would
move me to deliver myself from the state of banish-
ment, except these two: First, the enjoyment of my
relations; and, secondly, A little warmer climate; but
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the
court, -the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister
of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures,
that is to fay, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me
to all he banished me from: I protest, if I know
myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace of
Moscow.
But, my lord, slid I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore, but you may be absent too from some of the con-
eniencies of lise; your estate, perhaps, consiscated,
and your effects plundered f and the supplies left you
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
lise.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a lord,
or a prince, &c. So, indeed, I am; but you are now
to consider me only as a man, an human creature, not
at all distinguished from another : and so I can suffer no
want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dis-
tempers. However, to put the question out of dispute;
you see our manner; we are in this place sive persons of
rank; we live persectly retired, as suited to a state of
banishment; we have something rescued from the ship-
wreck of our fortunes, which ktrps us from the mere
necessity of hunting for our foou, but the poor soldiers
who are here, without that heip, live in as much plenty
as we. They go into the wood.-, and catch fables and
foxes ; the labour of a month will maintain them a year;
and' as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard
to get sufficient to ourselves; So that objection is out of
doors.
f I have
I have no room to give a sull account of the moil
agreeable conversation I had with his truly great
man; and in all which he shewed, that his mind was so
inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so sup-
ported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the
fame to the last, as will appear in the story I am going
to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dark dreadsul
winter I thought it to be; the cold was so intense,
that I could not so much as look abroad without be-
ing wrapt in surs, and a mask of sur before, my face,
or rather a hood, with only an hole for breath, and
two for sight. The little day-light we had, was, as
we reckoned, for three months, not above sive hours a
day, and six at most; only that the snow lying on the
ground continually, and the weather clear, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather
starved) under ground; and, as, for our servants (for
we hired servants here to look after our horses and
selves), we had every now and then their singers and toes
to thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify and
fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of
d eer, dried and cured in the season ; good bread enough,
ut baked as biscuits; dried sish of several sorts, and
ome flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes, which is r/retty
good beef. All the store of provision for the winter
are laid up in the summer, and well cured; our drink
was water mixed with aqua vitae instead of brandy;
and, for a treat, mead instead of wine; which however,
they have excellent good. The hunters, who ventur-
ed abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh
venison, very fat and good : and sometimes bears flesh,
but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends as above;
and, in a word, we lived very chearsully and well, all
things considered.

It was now March, and the days grown- consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerable ; so
other travellers began to prepare fledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being sixed, as I have said, for Arch-
Angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well, that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world till
Mayor June: and that if I was there at the beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any ships would.be
ready to go away ; and therefore, I fay, I made no
haste to be gone, as others did? in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away
before me". It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscow for trade, viz. to carry furs, and buy
necessaries with them, which they bring back to sur-
nish their shops; also others went on the fame errand
to Arch-Angel; but then they also, being to come
back again above eight hundred miles, went out all
before me.
In short, about the latter end of May, I began to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it
occurred to me, that seeing all these people were ba-
nished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet,
when they came there, were at liberty to go whither
they would; why did they not then go away to any
part of the world whereever they thought sit! and I be-
gan to examine what should hinder them from making
such an attempt.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon
that subject with the person I have mentioned, who
answered me thus: Consider, sirst, sir, said he, the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especially, said he, the generality of the people
who are banished hither. We are surrounded, said he,
with stronger things than bars and bolts; on the
north side is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never
sailed, and boat never swam; neither, if we had both,
could we know whither to go with them. Every other
way, said he, we have above a thousand miles to pass
through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways ut-
terly impassable, except by the roads made by the go-
i vernmen'
vemment, and through the towns garrisoned by his
troops; so that we could neither pals undiscovered by
the road, or subsist any other way; so that is in vain to
attempt it.
s was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
were in prison, every jot as secure, as if they had been
locked up in the callle of Moscow: however, it came
into my thoughts, that I might certainly be made an
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per-
son, and that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going t6 Moscow, but to Arch-Angel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in trie
desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-AngeJ,
where I could immediately secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off sase along with
me; and, as to his subsistence, and other particulars,
that should be my care, till he should better iupply him-
self.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly,
on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
very sace, that what 1 laid put his spirits into an ex-
ceeding serment; his colour frequently changed, his
eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might
be even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
immediately answer me, when 1 had done, and, as it
were, expected what he would say to it; and after he
had paired a liitie, he embraced me, and said, how
unhappy are we! unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares to
us, and we are made tempters of one another! My dear
friend, laid he, your ofser is so sincere, has such kind-
ness in it, is 10 disinterested in itlelf, and is so calculat-
ed for my advantage, that I must have very little
knowledge of the world, if I did not both wonder at
it, and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me
to you for it: But did you believe I was sincere in
what I have so often said to you of my contempt of
the world? Did you believe I spoke my very soul
to you, and that I had really maintained that degree
of
/
J- of selicity here, that had placed me above all that the
-' world could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back, if I
was recalled even to be all that once I was in the court,
and with the savour of the Czar, my master? Did you
jj believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, or did you
think me to be a boasting hypocrite? Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I
soon after perceived, that he stopped because his spirits
were in motion,; his heart was sull of struggles, and
he could not go on. I was, 1 consess, astonished at the
thing, as well as at the man, and I used some argu-
ments with him to urge him to set himself free: that
he ought to look upon this as a door opened by Hea-
- ven for his deliverance, and a summons by Providence,
2 who has the care and good disposition of all events, to
ar do himself good, and to render himself usesul in the
] world.
He had by this time recovered himself: How do
'you know, sir, said he, warmly, but that instead of a
summons from heaven, it may be a seint of another
r instrument, representing, in all the alluring colours, to
me, the shew of selicity as a deliverance, which may
in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin?
Here I am free from the temptation of returning to
my former miserable greatness; there I am not sure,
but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and
luxury, which I kuow remain in my nature, may revive
and cake root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me;
and-then the happy prisoner, whom you see now mas-
ter of his foul's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of
his own senses, in the sull of all personal liberty. Dear
. sir, let.me remain in this blessed consinement, banished
from the crimes of lise, rather than purchase a shew
of freedom at the expence of the liberty of my reason,
and at the expence of the suture happiness which now
I have in my view, but shall then, 1 sear, quickly lose
sight of; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have
passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow
me as any man; O be not my friend and my tempter
both together! \
Vol. II. M If
If I was surprised before, I was quits' dumb nos,
and stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed, ad mi:
what 1 saw; the struggle in his soul \ra- so great, tha
though the weather was extremely cold, it put him inn
a most violent sweat, and I sound he wanted to give
vent to his mind; so I said a word or two, that I tvoulJ
leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again; aci
then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours utter, I heard somebody at or nea;
the door of the room, and 1 was going to open the door;
but he had opened it, and come in: My dear friend,
said he, you had almost overset me, but 1 am recovered:
do not take it ill that 1 do not close with your offer; /
assure you, it is not for want of a sense of the kindnesi
of it in you; and I come to make the most sincere ac-
knowledgment of it to you; but, 1 hope, I have got
the victory over myself.
My lord, said I, I hope you are fully satisfied1, fAat
you did not resist the call of heaven. Sir, said he, if it
had been from heaven, the same power would have in-
fluenced me to accept it; but, J hope, and am fully
satissied, that it is from heaven that I decline it; and
1 have an insinite satissaction in the parting, that yon
(hall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-
fession to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
Ihould always acknowledge it, and with that he offered
me a very fine present of sables, too much, indeed,
for me to accept from a man in his circumstances; and
1 would have avoided them, but he would not be re-
. fused.
The n xt morning I sent my servant to his lord-
sh p, wit a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
did not all weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts; but
were sar short of the value of his sables, which, in-
deed, when I came to England, I found worth near tw o
hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece
of the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which
had a sine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which
I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take
any more; and sent word by my servant, that he de-
sired to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew- what
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move
him any more in that affair-; but that, since I made
such a generous offer to him, he asked me, if I had
kindness enough to offer the same to another person-
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
share of concern. I told him, that I could not say I
inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have been
glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance;
however, if he would please to name the person to me,
1 would give him my answer, and hoped he would
not be displeased with me, if he was with my answer.
He told me, it was only his son, who, though I had
not seen, yet was in the same condition with himself,
and above two hundred miles from him, on the other
side the Oby -, but that, if I consented, he would send
for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it:
I made some ceremony in letting him understand, that
it was wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, 1 would shew my respect to him, by
my concern for his son: but these things are too te-
dious to repeat here. He ssnt away the next day for
his son, and in about twenty davs he came back with
the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with
very rich surs, ind which, in the whole, amounted to
n very great value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there
the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper
for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, sine ermins, and such other surs that are
very riA; I say, I had bought them in that city so
M 2 exchag
exchange for some of the goods brought from China j in
particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I fold
the greatest part here ; and the rest afterwards at Arch-
angel, for a much better price than I could have done at
London; and rliy partner, who was sensible of the pro-
fit, and whole business mint particularly than mine,
was merchandize, was nu;;htiiy pleased with our ltay,
cn account os the traffic we made here.
It was in the beginning of June, when I left this re-
mote place, a city, ] believe, little heard of in tiie
wojM; and, indeed, it is so sar out of the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being
only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of
them passed for mine, though my new guest was pro-
prietor cf eleven of them. It was mcli natural also,
that I should take more servants with me than I had be-
fore, and the young lord passed for my steward; what
great man 1 passed for myself I know not, neither did
it concern me to enquire. We had here the worst and
the largest desert to pass ever that we met with in all
the journey, indeed, I call it the worst, because the
way was very deep in some place?, and very uneven
in others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
sear, and that they never came on this side the river
Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it
otherwise.
My young lord had with him a saithsul Musccvne
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
sectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
by private roads, that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities upon the great road, such
as Tumen, Soloy-Kamoskoy, and several others; be-
cause the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there are
very curious and strict in their observations upon travel-
lers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of
note should make their escape that way into Muscovy;
but by this means, as we were kept out of the cities,
so our whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged
to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have
hud good accommodation in the cities on the way:

this
his the young lord was so sensible of, that he would
not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several
cities on the way; but lay abroad hiniielf, with his
servant, in the woods, and met us always at the ap-
pointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the liver
Kama, which, in those parts, is the boundary between
Europe and Asia ; and she sirst city on the European side
was. called Soloy-i^amcskoy, which is as much ar to fay,
the great city oh the river Kama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their
manners, their habit, their religion, and their busi-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
sert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, but not above two hundred
miles over where we passed it; so, till we came past
that horrible place, we found very little difference be-
tween that country and the Mogul Tartar/; the people
mostly Pagans, and little better than the savages of
America ;. their houses and towns sull of idols, and
their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities
as above, and the villages near them; where they
are Christians, as they call themselves of the Greek
church; but even these have their religion mingled
with so many reliques of superstition, that it is scarce
to be known in some places for mere sorcery and
witchcraft.
Ln passing fhis sorest, I thought, indeed, we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped,
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murdered by a troop of thieves; of what coun-
try they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachj,
a kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of
the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were
the' fable Jumters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to
know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows
and arrows, and were at sirst about sive and forty in
number; they came so near to us, as within about-
two musquet soot; and, asking no questions, they sur-
rounded us 'with their horse, and looked very earnestly
upon us twice; at length they placed themselves just
in our way; upon which we drew up in a little line
M 3 before'
before our camels being not'above sixteen men in all;
and being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the
Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who they
were; his master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were
a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came up
near them with a flag of truce, and called to them;
but though he spoke several of their languages, or dia-
lects of languages father, he could not ustderstan- a
word they said; however, after some signs to him not
to come nearer to them at his peril; so he said he un-
derstood them to mean, ofsering to shoot at him if he
advanced; the sellow came back no wiser than he went,
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be
some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hords;
and that there must be more of them on the great desert,
though he never heard that ever any of them were seen
so far north before.'
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left hand, at about a
quarter of a mile's distance, a lhtle grove or clump
of trees, which stood close together, and very near
the road; I immediately resolved we would advance
to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we
eould there; for, sirst, I considered that the trees would
in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a
body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who
proposed it: and who had this excellency attending
him, namely, that he was always readiest and most apt
to direct and encourage us in cases of the most dan-
ger. We advanced immediately with what speed we
could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us.
When we came thither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy springy piece of ground,
and, on the other side, a very great spring of water,
which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a
little farther joined by another of the like bigness: and
was, in short, the head or source of a considerable ri-
ver, called afterwards the Wirtska; the trees which
'grew-
grew about this spring, were not in all above two hun
dred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick ; so
that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves persectly
sase from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked
us on foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with
indefatigable application, cut down great arms of the
trees, and kid them' hanging, not cut quite off, from
one tree to another; so that he made a continued sence
almost round us.
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer to.
iiir; when about two hours before night, they came
down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some more
of the fame, so that they were near fourscore horse,
whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half a shot of our
little wood, when we sired one musquet without ball,
and called to them in the Ruffian tongue, to know what
they wanted, and bid them keep off; bur, as if they
knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double sury directly up to the wood-side, not imagining
we were so barricadoed, that they could not break in;
our old pilot was our captain, as well as he had been-;
our engineer; and desired of us, not to sire upon them
till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure
to kill; and that when we did sire we mould be sure.
to take good aim. We bade him give the word of com-
mand; which he delayed so long, that they were, some
of them, within two pikes length of us when we
sired.
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so
sure) that we killed fourteen of them at the sirst volley,
and wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two
or three bullets a piece at least.
They were terribly surprised with our sire, and re-
treated immediately about one hundred rods from us %j
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and, seeing
them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught
tour- or sive of their horses, whose riders, we sup-
3- posed.
1 posed, were killed; and, coming up to the dead, we
could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not
from what country, or how they came to make an excur-
sion such an unusual length.
About an hour aster, they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where
else they might break in; but sinding us always ready
to sace them, they went osf again, and we resolved not
to stir from the place for that night.
We slept a little, you may be sure ; but spent the most
part of the night in strengthening our situation, and
barricadoing rne entrances intotht wood ; and, keeping
a strict watc'i, we waited for day-light, and, when it
came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were dilcouraged with
the reception they had met with, were now increased to
no less than three hundred, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp they had pitched, was upon the
open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us.
We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery ; and now,
I consess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The loss of my essects did not lie so near me (though
they were very considerable) as the thoughts of salling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of
my journey, after so many difficulties and hazard
as I had gone through; and even in sight of our
port, where we expected sasety and deliverance. As
for my partner, he was raging; he declared, that to
lose his goods would be his ruin; and he would rather
die than be starved; and he was for sighting to the last
drep.
The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed it-
self, was for sighting to the last also; and my old pilot
was of the opinion we were able to resist them- all, in
the situation we then were in ; and thus we spent the day
in debates of what we should do ; but, towards evening,
we found that the number of out enemies still encreas-
ed: perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for
prey, he sirst had sent out scouts to call for help, and
to acquaint them of their booty; and we did not know
but by the morning they might still be a greater
number;
number; so I began to enquire of those people we had
brought from Tobolski, if there was no other, or more
private ways, by which we might avoid them in the
night, and, perhaps either retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord,
told us if we designed to avoid them, and not sight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night to a way
that went north towards the river Petraz, by which he
made no doubt but we might get away, and the Tar-
tars never the wiser; but he said, his lord had told
him he would not return, but would rather chuse to sight.
I told him, he mistook his lord; for that he was' too
wise a man.to love sighting for the sake of it-; that I
knew his lord was brave enough by what he had shewed
already; but that his lord knew better, than to desire
to have seventeen or eighteen men sight sive hundred,
links* an unavoidable necessity forced them.to it; and
that if he thought it possible for us to escape in tHe
night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He
answered, if his lord gave him such order, he would lose
his life if he did not perform it. We soon brought his
lord to give that order, though privately, and we im-
mediately prepared for the putting it in practice.
And sirst, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a sire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tar-
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon as
it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars,
(s^i' our guide would not stir before) having all our
horses and camels ready loaden, we followed our new
guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the pole,
or north star, all the country being level for a long
way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark all night,
but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was ra-
ther lighter than we wished it to be: but by six o'clock
next morning, we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we
found a Ruffian village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we
rested, and heard nothing of the Calmuck Tartars that
ADVENTURES OF
day. About two hours before night we set out againy
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so haltily as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river, called Kirtxa, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Russians, and very populous,
called Ozemys; there we heard, that several troops or
hords of Calmucks had been abroad upon the desert,
but that we were r.ow completely out of danger of them,
which was to our great satissaction, you may be sure.
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and,
having need enough of rest, we staid sive days; and my
partner and I agreed to-give the honest Siberian, who
brought us thither, the value of ten pistole* for his con-
ducting us. »
In sive days more we came to Veuffima, upon the -
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our travels
by land, that river being navigable in seven days pas-
sage to Archangel: from hence we came to Law-
renskoy, where the river joins, the third of July: and,
provided ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a barge,
for our convenience: we embarked the seventh, and
arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, having
been a year, sive months, and three days, on the jour-
ney, including our stay of eight monies and odd days
at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks fur
the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer,
had not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner
than any of the Engliih ships :- when, after some cor.»i-
deration, that the city of Hamburgh might happen to
be as good a market for our goods as London, we all
took freight with him: and having put jsur goods rn
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on-
board to take care of them r by which means my young
lord had a sufsicient opportunity to conceal himself,
never coming on shore again, in all the time we staid
there: and this he did, that he might not be seen in the
city, where some of the Moscow msrehants would cer-
tainly have seen and discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August
the same year : and, after no extraordinary bad voyage,
arrived
arrived in the Elbe, the i3th of September: here my
partner and I found a very good sale for our goods, as
well those of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia : and
-dividing the produce of our effects, my share amounted
R 013 IN SON -CRUSOE. 175
had sustained, and charges we had been at: only re-
membering that I had included, in this, about 600I.
worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of u., and went
*ip the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna,
where he resolved to seek protection, and where he
could correspond with those of his father's friends who
were left alive. He did not part without all the testi-
monies he could give, of gratitude for the service I had
done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince his
father.
To conclude, having staid near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence, over land to the Hague,
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London
the i0th of January, i705, having been gone from
England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I
am preparing for a longer journey than all these, hav-
ing lived 72 years a lise of insinite variety, and learned
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the
•blessing of ending our days in peace.
'/ S.
\
/
r
-

DEC 6 - 1938

'LIFE AND ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER:
•WHO LIVED BIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALONE IN AN
VNINHABITED ISLAND, ON THE COAST OT AMERICA)
NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE GREAT HIVES OROONOQUE.
WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS
ROUND THREE PARTS OF TEIE GLOBE.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
.^IrICHED WITH ELEGANT PLATES DESCRIPTIVE OT THE
SUBJECT.'
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR W. LANE, LEADENHALL-STREET,
MDCCXci'::'- '-'
PUBLIC LIBRA.RY1
758721 A
ASTOR- LENOX ANO
TILDEN FOUNOATBNMl
R 1936 £.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
o t
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
r I 'HAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions
1 in England, viz. That what is bred in the bone
win' not go out of the flesh, was never more verisied than
in the story of my lifb.—Anyone would think, that
after thirty-sive years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which sew men, if ever any, v/ent
through before; and after near seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the sulness of all things; grown old, and
when, if ever it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle lise, and to know which
was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
fay, after all this, any one would have thought, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account
of in my sirst setting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be sully evaporated, or at least condensed,
and I might at sixty-one years of age have been a little
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing lise
and fortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to seek.—If I had gained ten thou-
THE
sand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that 1 had was visibly increasing; for having no great
family, 1 could not spend the income of what I hadi
unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things [ had no notion of, or incli-
nation to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit
still, and sully enjsy what I had got, and see it increase
caily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical dis-
ftemper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I left there, sun in
ray head continually.—I dreamed of it all night, and.
my imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost,
in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily
'and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep ;.
in short, nothing could remove it out of mv mind.—It
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it.-
mate my conversation tiresome; for I could talk of no-
thing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to im-
pertinence; and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment fay, that
all tiie stir people make in the world .about ghosts and;
apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagination,
and the powersul operation of fancy in their minds ;-
that there is no such thing- as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like : That people's poring affec-
tionately upon the past conversation of their deceas'd
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them ;'
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing,and they really know nothing ofthe matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour, whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spectres,
or walking of people after they are dead, or whether
there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind,
more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and
wandering fancies.—But this I luiow, that my imagina-
tion worked me up to such a height, and brought me Into
such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at
Biy old castle behind the trees; I saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors, whom I left
upon the island.—Nay, I fancied I talked with them, and
looked at them so steadily, tho' 1 was broad awake, as
at persons just before me; and this I did till I often
frightened myself with the images my fancy represented
to me.—One time, in my sleep, I had the villainy o.'
the three pirate sailors so lively related to me by tho
sirst Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set sire to the provisions
the yhad laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them;
things that I had never heard of, and yet they were all
of them true in fact; and it was so warm in my ima-
gination, and so realized to me, that to the hour I
saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or
woald be true; also how I reseated it, when the' Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three
to be hanged. — What there was really in all this shall
be seen in its place; for however I came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits
injected it, yet there was, I fay, very much of it true.
I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and
specisically true ; but the general part was so true, the
bale and villainous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
of the fact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I had been
much in the right, and should have been justisied both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: in this kind of temper
I had lived some years ; I had no enjoyment of my
lise, no pleasant. hours, no agreeable diversion, but
wha' had something or other of this in it; so that my
wise, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powersul impulse of Providence upon me,
A 4 * which
which had determined me to go thither again; and'that
she found nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged to a wise and children.—She told me, that it was
true, she could not think of parting with me; but as she
was assured, that if she was dead, it would be the sirst
thingl would do; so, as it seemed to her, that the thing
was determined above, she would not be the only ob-
struction; for, if I thought sit, and resolved to go
Here she iound me very intent upon her words, and that
I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a little disor-
dered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not
go on, and say out what she was going to fay. But I per-
ceived h^r heart was too sull, and some tears stood in
her eye's.—Speak out, my dear, fays I; are you willing
I should go? No, says the, very affectionately, I am far
from willing; but if you are resolved to go, fays she,
rather than I will be the only hindrance, I will go with
you; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,
laid she again, weeping, I won't leave you; for il it be
of heaven, you must do it, there is no resisting it—And
if heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also make
it mine to go with yon, or otherwise dispoie of me, that
I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wise, brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider what
I was doing—I corrected my wandering fancy, and be-
gan to argue with myself sedately, what business I had,
after- three score years, and after such a lise of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy
a manner, I say, what business had I to rusti into new
hazards, and put myself upon adventures, sit only for
youth and poverty to run into.
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage-
ments—that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
ti.en great with child of another; and that I had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of seek-
ing to increase it; that as to what my wise had said, of
its being an impulse from heaven, and that it should
be my duty to go, 1 had no notion of that; so after
many
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power
of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe
people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in
a word, I conquered it: composed myself with such argu-
ments as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present
condition surnished me plentisully with; and particular-
ly, as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert my-
self with other things, and to engage in some business
that might effectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; for I found the thing returned upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of moment immediately before me.
To this purpose 1 bought a little farm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I found was capable of great improvement, and that it
was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted
in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of
land; and particularly, being an inland county, I was
removed from conversing among ships, sailors, and
things relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my fa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon*
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriously to work,
became in one half year a mere country gentleman;
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, inclosing, planting,
&c. and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life
that nature was capable of directing, or that a man
always bred to misfortunes, was capable of being re-
treated to.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay,
was limited by no articles; I could pull up, or cut
down, as I pleased; what I planted was for myself;
and what I improved was for my family; and having
^thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the least discomfort in any part of my lise, as to this
world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed that
middle state of lise, which my father so earnestly re-
commended to me: a kind of heavenly lise, something
like what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a
country lise,
A 5 Free
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all- this selicity, one blow from -
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me,
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on .
with an irresistible force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me.. This blow was
the loss of my wise.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my
wise, to give a character of her particular virtues, and
make my court to the sex by the slattery of a suneral
sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
afsairs, the centre of all my enterprises; the engine,
that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass
I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous projectr
that fluttered in my head, as above; and did more to
guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, %
sather's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own
reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her intreaties, and to
the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by
the loss of her.,
When she was gone, the world looked aukwardlyv
round me; I- was as much a stranger in it, in my--
thoughts, as I was in the Brasils, when I sirst went on- -
shore there; aad as much alone, except as to the assist*
ance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither*
what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world busy-
round me, one part labouring for bread, and the other-
squandering it in vile excesses, or empty pleasures;'
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still-
fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur- .
seited, of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow-
and repentance; and the men of labour spent .their-
strength in daily firugglings for bread, to maintain the-
vitai strength they labours with-; so living in a. daily-.
-.' • sir-.
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live; as if daily bread were the only end os a
wearisome lise, and a wearisome lise the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the lise I lived in my king-
dom, the island ; where I susfered no more corn to grow,
because 1 did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause 1 had no more use for them: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce
the savor to be looked upon in 20 years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search surther than human
enjoyments for a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end of lise,
superior to all'these things, which was either to be pos-
sessed, or at least hoped for on this side the g»ave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run before the wind: my
thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign
adventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements
of my sarmland my garden, my cattle and my samily,
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear,
or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved
to leave off housekeeping, let my sarm, and- return to
London; and in a sew months after I did for
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as be*
fore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like- an idle person,
'of whom.it may. be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing' matter to the rest
of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing, which of all circumstances of lise was. the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an
active lise; and I would often say to . myself, a state of
idleness is the very dregs of lise; and indeed I thought I 1
was much more suitably employed, when I was. 26 days
making a deal- board.'
It was, now the beginning of the year 1693/when
my nephew^ -whoj;i, as I have observed ..before, J had
A.6 -> brought
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of
a ship, was come home- from a short voyage to Bilboa,
being the sirst he had made; he came to me, and told
me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East-
Indies and to China, as private traders: And now, uncle,
says, he, if you will go to lea with me, I'll engage to land,
you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to
touch at the Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a suture
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than
the concurrence of second .causes with the ideas of
things, which we sorm in our minds, persectly reiei ved,
snd not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of
what he h«§d in his thoughts to say; when thai very
morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
consusion of thought, and revolving every part of my
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my dd sea-
captain, and lo, if it was rational and practicable, I
would go and lee the island again, and see what was be-
come os my people there. I had pleased myself also with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession,
and I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in
comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project'of
carrying me thither, in his way to the East-Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at
him, What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky er-
rand? My nephew startled, as if he had been frighted
at sirst; but perceiving I was not much displeased with
the proposal, he recovered himself: I hope it may not be
an unlucky proposal, sir, says he; I dare say you would
be pleased to see your new colony there, where you once
reigned with more selicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my tem-
per, that is to say, with the prepossession I was under,
and of which I have said so much, that I told him in
few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would
£0
go with him: but I told him, I would not promise to go
any sarther than my own island. Why, Sir, says he, you
don't want to be left there again, I hope? Why, said I,
can you not take me up again in your return? He told
me it would not be possible to do so; that the merchants
wonld never allow him to come that way witli a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his way,
and might be three or sour: Besides, Sir, if I should mis-
carry, said he, and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on
board the ship,- which, being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of some
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island, and sinished, sit to go to sea in a sew
days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew, joined in so.fffectually with my in-
clinaiion, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wise being dead, 1 had nobody that concern-
ed themselves so much tor me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend the wi-
dow, who earneltly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard
of a long voyage; and, above all, my young children:
but it was all to no purpose, I had an irresistible desire
to go the voyage; and I told her, I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind for .the voyage, that it would be a kind of
resisting Providence, it I mould attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined
with me, not only in making provision for my voyage,
but also in settling my samily-affairs in my absence, and
providing tor the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that I was persectly easy and
satissied they would have justice done them, whatever
might besal me; and for their education, I lest it
wholly to my widow, with a sussicient maintenance to
herself for her care; all which she richly deserved: for
no
no mother could have taken more care in their edoca^
tkin, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came
home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning
of January, »694-5, and I, with my man Friday, went
on board in the Downs the 8th, having, besides that
floop which I mentioned above, a very considerable
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which is I did not sind in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
p.urpoied to place there, as inhabitants, or at least, to
set on work there upon my own account while I .staid,
and either to leave them there, or carry them forward,
as they should appear .willing, particularly I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a veryjiandy ingenious sellow,
who was a cooper by trade, but was ^lso a general me.
chanic, for he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a .
good pot-maker ; .he also made any thing that was-proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we called him .
our jack of all trades.
With these I carried a taylor, who had offered himself;
to go passenger to the-East- Indies with my nephew, but:
afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation, and
proved a most necessary handy sellow as could be desired, .
in many other businesses besides that of his trade ; for as
I .observed formerly, necessity arms- us for all employ-
ments.
My.cargo,- as near as I can recollect, for I have not
kept an account of particulars, consisted of a susficient
quantity of linen, and some thin English stuffs for clothing
the-Spaniards-that I expected to sind there, and enough 1
of them, as. by my calculation might comfortably supply
them for seven years ; if I remember right, the materials
which I carried for cloathing .them, with gloves, hats, .
shoes, stockings,- and all such things as they could -
want for wearing, amounted to above zool. including
some beds, bedding, and houshold stuff, particularly-.
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &Ci
besides near tool, more in iron-work, nails, - tool*
of.
of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every neces-
sary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and
susils, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of
shot of all sizes, three or . sour tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what
time, and what extremities, I was providing for, I car-
ried an hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, and
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts,
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two small.
qaarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to
leave behind, if there was oc<asion, that when they
came there, we might-build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies; and indeed at sirst I thought there
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had .
been used to meet with, and therefore shall have the less
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet some odd accidents, cross-winds, and bad weather
happened, on this sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz-, my sirst voyage to Guinea, -
in which I. might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst-designed, began to think the same ill
fate still attended me; and that I was born to be never
contented with my own shore, and yet to be always un- -
fortunate at sea.
Contrary winds sirst put us to-the northward* and:
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay windbound two and thirty days; but we had this
satissaction with the disaster, that provisions were here •
exceeding cheap, and in the utmost.plenty ; so that while. •
we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather
added to theny;. here also I took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put ashore in my island, but. we found occasion
jo dispose otherwise of them,.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had
a very fair gale of wind, for some days; as I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came into
the round house, and told us he saw a flam of sire, and
heard a gun sired; and while he was telling us of it, a
boy came in, and told as the boatswain heard another.
This made us all run out upon the quarter deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a sew minutes we
saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible sire at a distance; immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that
there could be no land that way, in which the sire
shewed itself, no, nos for 500 leagues, for it appeared
at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some
ship on sire at lea; and as by our hearing the noise
of guns just before, we concluded it could not be far
off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently sa-
tissied we should discover it, because the farther we sailed
the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
- hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light
for a while; in about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being fair for us, thpugh not much of it, and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern, that it was
a great ship on sire in the middle of the sea. I was
most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, in what condition
1 was in when taken up by the Portuguese captain; and
how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to the ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them; upon this I im-
mediately oraered that sive guns should be sired, one
soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them, that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat;
for though we could see the flame in the ship, yet they,
it be^ng night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and imme-
diately,
diately sank! This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting
sight, for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded,
must be either all destroyed, in the ship, or be in the ut-
most distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not
see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanthorns for, and kept
siring guns all the night long, letting them know by
this, that there was a ship not sar off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help of our perspective-glasses;
and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water; we perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our
ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a waft imt. as a siena? for them
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. In a little more than half an hour we
came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty four men, women and children;
for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant
ship oT 300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in
the river of - Canada. - The master gave us a long ac-
count of the distress of his ship, how the sire began in the
steerage by the negligence of the steersman, but, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the
sirst sire had gotten into some part of the ship, so difsicult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the cieling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large;
being their long boat, and a great shallop, besides a
small skiff, which was of no great service to them,
other than to get some fresh water and provisions into
her
her, after .they had secured themselves from the sire
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats, at that distance from any land; only,-
as they said well, that they were escaped from the sire,
and had a possibility that some ship might happen to-
be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails,-
oars, and a compass, and were preparing to make the
best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing
prettysair; for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, asr with sparing it
so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about i 2 days, in which, if they had no bad weather,
and no contrary winds, the captain said, he hoped he
might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some sish to sustain them till they might go
on shore. But there were so many chances against
them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and
founder them, rains and cold to benumb and perish
their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them,- that it must have been next to miraculous if they
had elcaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being
hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain, with tears
in his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprised with
the joy of hearing a gun sire, and after that four more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at sirst
seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I designed it mould,
viz. that there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took
down their masts and sails, and the found * coming from
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they sired
three musquets, one a considerable while after another;
but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to
be sired all the rest of the night; this set them to
work with their oars to keep their boats a-head, at
kail that we might the sooner come up with them;
and
»nd M last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures,-
the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these
poor delivered people run into, to express the joy of their
souls, at so unexpected a deliverance;- grief and sear are
easily described ; sighs, tears, groans, and a very sew mo-
tions of head and hands, making up the sum of its variety:
but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagancies in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themlelves, as if they had been in the
greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark raving and down-
right lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their seet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, several singing, some laughing, more crying,
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word, others siclc
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint, and
a-tew were eroding tnemieive» and giving Gcd thanks'
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thanksul afterward; but the passion was too
strong for them at sirst, and they were not able to master-
it; tney were thrown into ecstacies and a kind of frenzy,
and so there were but a very sew who were composed and
serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
from the particular circumstance of the nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whole temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations- I
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen- before came up to it: the ec-
stacies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he
found his father- in the boat, came the nea:tst to it; and
the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the two villains that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I law in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is farther observable, that these extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the va-
riety would appear in a short succession of moments,
in
in one and the same person. A man that we saw this
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like
an antick, and the next moment tearing his hair, or
pulling his cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under
his seet like a madman; a sew minutes after that, we
should have him all in tears, then sick, then swooning;
and had not immediate help been had, would in a sew
moments more, have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty but with the greatest
part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let above thirty of them blood.
Tslere were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot 6a board our ship, and
saw himself sase, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance i not tl» , of life could be percetvea
in him; our lurgeon immediately applied proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
benered he was not dead,; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having sirst chased and rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as ranch as possible; upon this the
blood, which only dropped at sirst, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his eyes,
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke;
grew better, and, in a little time, quite well; after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
sectly well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself.
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had fainted, and told him, the
priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had began to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind,
and this put him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits
whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and severish, and the man was
as sit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and pat
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon
him, and he waked next morning perfectly composed
and well.
The yoonger priest behaved himself ith preat com-
mand of his passion, and was really an example of a
serious well governed mind; at his sirst coming on board
the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating
himself in thanksulness for his deliverance, in which I
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really think-
ing he had been in a swoon ; - but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks
also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only
feft him, but kept others from interrupting him also;
he continued in that posture about three minutes, or
a little more, after I left him; then came to me, as he
feid he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, given him, and so many miserable
creatures their lives. I told him, 1 had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: but I added,
that it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he
to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to
make us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his
creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his coun-
try-folks, laboured to compose them; persuaded, in-
treated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost
to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with some he had success, though others were, for a
time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this tq writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whose hands it may fall,
in the gmding themselves in all the extravagancies of
their passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what will not the extravagancies of anger, rage, and
a provoked mind, carry us to? And indeed, here I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding strict watch over our pas-
sions
sions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction,
-as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagancies
among our new guests for the sirll day; but when they
had been refreshed, lodgings provided for them as well as
our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most ot them did, being fatigued and frightened, they
were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of' good manners, or civil acknowledgments
for the kindneis shewn them was wanting; the French,
tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that way.
The captain, and one of the priests, came to me the
next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my ne-
phew, the commander, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and sirst they told us, that, as
we had saved their Ji.es, so all they had was little
enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the
flames; and if we would accept it, they were ordered to
make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they
might get a passage to Prance.
My nephew was for accepting their money at sirst
word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards;
.but I over-ruled him in that part, for I knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all 1 had for my -deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brasils, as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases, a much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was
our duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them, but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
but that we took them up to serve them not to plunder
them;
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of
the sire, and then set them on shore, and leave them;
that this would be sirst to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and therefore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them ; as to setting
them on shore, I told them indeed, that was an exceed-
ing great difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East-Indies, and though we were driven out ot our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
was directed by heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party * to purlue his voyage by the way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was, to
put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West-Indies, and get them
passage, if possible, to England or France.
_ The sirst part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East-
Indies; they then intreated me, that seeing I was driven
& far to the westward before 1 met with them, I would
a' least keep on the fame course to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ftip or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
Part; and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole company to the
East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity to
the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voy-
age by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unsoreseen acci-
dent made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no
one could fay we were to blame; for the laws of God
and nature would have forbid, that we should resuse
to take up two boats sull of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing as well re-
specting
specting ourselves, as. the poor people, obliged us to see
them on shore somewhere or other, for thefr deliver-
ance; so 1 consented that we would carry them to New- ,
foundland, if wind and weather would permit; and, if
not, that I would carry them to Martinico in the West-
Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good, and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but theyihad been
so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no paslengers for sear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to
France, if they could get provision to victual themselves
with: when, I fay, all the French went on shore, I
should remember, that the young priest I spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Coromandel: 1 readily agreed to that, for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason,
as will appear afterwards; also sour of the seamen
entered themselves in our ship, and proved very usesul
sellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West--
.Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about 20 days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N,
and the i9th day of March, i694-5, when we espied
a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon perceived
it was a large vesiel, and that she bore up to us; but
could not at sirst know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
top-mast fore-mast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fires a gun as a signal of distress ; the weather was pretty
good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we soon came
to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
Jfarbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at Bar-
badoes, a sew days before she was ready to fail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate
were both gone on shore; so that beside the terror of the
storm, they were but in an indifserent case for good
artists to bring the ship home: they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and in which they lost their masts, as above ; they told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the south-east, by a
stiong gale of wind at N. N. W. the same that blew
now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a
main-course, and a kind of square sail upon a jury fore-
mast, which they had set up, they could not lie nearthe
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the
Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone: their bread and flesh was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days : the only relief they had, was,
their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured, and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to fail, unhappily came on board
the evening before the hurricane began : and, having n»
provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe.
vol. ii, B IhaJ
I had perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity
had not led me, the weather being fair, and the wind
abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, whe
upon this occasion commanded the (hip, had been on
board our ship: and he told me indeed, that they had
three passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a
deplorable condition; nay, fays he, I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
days: and I was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for I.had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relief we could spare; and indeed I had so far over-ruled
things with my nephew, that I would have victualled
*6 ADVENTURES OT
part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves;
but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were
afraid of eating too much, even of that little we gave them;
the mate or commander brought six men with him in his
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were so weak, they could hardly sit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat 'before
kim immediately, and he had not eaten three mouthsuls
before he began to be sick, and out of order; so he stopt
awhile, and our Surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said wojld be to him both food
andphyiick; and aster he had taken it, he grew better:
in the mean time, I forgot not the men; I order'd
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather
devoured than eat it; they were so exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no com-
mand of themselves; and two of them eat with so much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next morning.
The sight of these peoples distress was very moving
to me, and brought to mind what I had a terrible pros-
pect of at my sirst comini; on shore in my island, where
I had not the least mouthsul of food, or any hopes of
procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had
»f being made the food of other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin (viz) the mother, her
son, and the maid servant, whom he had heard nothing
of for two or three days; and whom he seemed to .con-
fess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all; and that therefore they
must be perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
floor or desk of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men to refresh them, so I alfa
forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and with-
my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
•and four orsive pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-roam, to prevent the mena
taking it to eat raw or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little
at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very-
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and see in what condition the poor passen-
gers were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them and
givethem what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them e;radually.
I was not satissied with this;- but, as I said above,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery," which I
knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took the
captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their boat.
1 found the poor men on board almost in a tumult
to get the victuals out of theboiler beforeit was ready:
but my mate observed his order, and kept a good
guard' at the cook-room door; and the man he
B 2 places
placed there, after using all possible persuasion so nave
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused
lbme biscuit -cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave them every one one, to stay their
stomachs, and told them it was for their own sasety that
he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and officers with me, and with
good words, and some threats also of giving them no
more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and tore the meat out of the furnace;
for words indeed arc of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however we pacisied them', and sed them gradu-
ally and cautioufly for the sirst time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last silled their bellies, and the
men did well enough.
But the misery of the poop passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, sirst,
the mip's company had so little for themselves, it was
but too true, that they had at sirst kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had no
food at all, and for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the sirst mate reported, was
a woman of good sense, and good breeding, had spared
all soe could get so affectionately for her son, that at last
she entirely sunk unde. it.' and when the mate of our
ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her
back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her shoul-
dJrt, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her,- and with
a spoon put some broth into her mouth; me opened her
lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet
she understood what he said, and made signs to him, in-
timating, that it was too late for her; but pointed to
her child,- as if she would have said, they should take
care of him.
However the mate, who was exceedingly moved with
the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her
mouth; and, as he said, got two or three spoonsuls down,
though
though I question whether he could be sure oflt or not;
but it was too late-, and shedied the fame night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his moft
affectionate mother's lise, was not so far gone; yet he lay
;n a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him; he had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him some time after, but two or
three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; slue lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that
had fallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for
lise; her limbs were distorted, one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped it
so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go; her
ether arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both to-
gether, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in>
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrisied with the thoughts of death, but, as the men:
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what todo.with this poor girl; for when
our surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge
and experience, and with great application recovered her
as to lise, 'he had' her upon his hand as to her senses, for
file was little less than distracted for a considerable time
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
fired to consider, that visits at sea are not like a jour-
Key into the country, where sometimes people stay a
week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
fail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts; how-
ever, as their captain begged of ui to help him to set up
B 3 amain*
a main top-mast, and a kind of top-mast to his-jury-
fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or
four days, anc) then having given him sive barrels of beef
suad pork, two hogshcads of biscuit, and a proportion of
peas, flour, and what other things we could spate; and
taking three casks of sugar and some rum, and some
pieces of eight of them for satissaction, we left them,
'taking on board with us, at their own earnest regnest,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
xlejected with the loss of his mother, and as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months before at Bar-
tadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out of the ship; for he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed so they had, that
is to say, passively; fox they might have spared a smalt
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no jus-
tice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
ef no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put-
him perhaps- in as bad circumstances almost, as we
found them in; thai is to say, starving in the world.
He said he matered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among:
that the Captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing os my nephew) had saved his life, and
he was sure would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to hersels, she would be very thank-
ful for it, let us carry them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them (both on boara with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could
not be removed, or come at; and as-th« youth had a
bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a,
writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bris-
tol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, so whom the
vouth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which
1 wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
deceased
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could.never learn, that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled
a condition, and so far from any land,- that I am of opi-
nion, the sirst storm she met with afterwards, she might
founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage
in her hold when 1 met-with her.
I was now in the latitude of iodeg. 31 min. andhad:
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, tho' at
sirst the winds had been contrary. I fliall trouble no--
body with the little incidents of winds, weather, cur-
rents, &c- on the rest of our voya e; but shortening
my story for the fake of what is to follow, shall observe
that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the i0th
of April, i695. It was with no small difficulty that I
found the place: for as I came to it, and went from it
before, on the south and east side of the island, as com-
ing from the Brazils, so now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor
any land mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or
knew whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands inthe mouth of the great riverOroonoque
but none for my purpose; only this- I learned by my
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw,
from the island I lived ii^ was really no continent, but
a long island, or rather a ridge of islands reaching from
one to the other side of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other Barbarians of the fame kind, who
inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of the islands to no purpose y
some 1 found were inhabited, and some were not. On'
one of them 1 found some Spaniards, and thoughtthey
had lived there ; but, speaking with thern^ found they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch some pearl-muscles
if they could 5 but they belonged to the isle de Trini-
dad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of 10 and:
ti degrees.
B 4 Thus
/ Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had sound a convenient boat, and therefore
kept her with their very good will, at length I came fair
en the south-side of my island, and I presently knew the
very countenance of the place; so I brought the ship
fose to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where
was my old habitation.
As scon as I saw the place, I called for Friday and
asked him, if he knew where he was? He looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried; O yes, O
there, Oyes, Othere, pointing to our old habitation, and
fella dancing and capering like a mad sellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim ashore to the place.
Well, Friday, said 1, do you think we mill sind any
body here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
your father? The sellow stood mute as a stock a good
while; but when I named his father, the poor afsectionate
creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentisully. What is the matter Fri-
day, said I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him
more, no ever more see again. Why so, said I Friday?
How do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he
long ago die; long ago he much old man. Well, well
said I, Friday, you don't know: but shall we see any one
else then: the scllow, it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
tho' we lay half a league off, he cries out Me see! me
see! yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and
there; I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass; which was, I suppose, because I could
not hit the place; for the sellow was right, as I found
vpon enquiry the next day, and there were sive or lix
men Itogether stood to^look at the ship, not knowing
what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused
the English ancient to be spread, and sired three guns,
to give them notice we were friends; and about half
a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoak rise
from the side of the creek; so I immediately ordered
a boat
a boat out, taking Friday with me; and, hanging out 3
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore;
taking with me the young frier I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the
manner*'of it, and every particular, both of myself, and
those that I left there, and who was on that account
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about
sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any new
guest there which we did not know-ot; but we had no
need'of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high-
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the sirst
man I sixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, and whom I knew by his face persectly well;
as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered
no body to go onshore at sirst but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat, for the afsectionate crea-
ture had spyed his father at a distance,* good way off of
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him, and
if they had not let him go on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow.
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite os the
sirmest resolution, to have seen the sirst transports of this
poor sellow's joy, when he came to his father; hoar he
embraced him, kisled him, streaked his face, took him up.
in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would
look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour toge-
ther; then lay down upon the ground, and streaked his
legs, and kilted them, and then got up again, and stared
at him;' one would have thought the sellow bewitched:
hut it would have made a dog laugh to see how the next
day his passion ran out another way: in the morning he
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father
several hours, always leading him by the hand, as if
he had been a lady; and every now and then would
come to setch something or other for him to the boat
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, er some
thing or other that was good.. In the afternoon his fro-
lics run another vrav, for then he would set the old
man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and

ADVENTURES OF
made a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all
the while he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travel's, and of
what had happened t« him abroad, to divert him. In
short, if the fame silial affection was to be found in chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts of the world, one
would be tempted to fay, there hardly would have been
any need of the sifth commandment.
But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It
would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The sirst
Spaniard, whom as I faid,I knew very well, was he whose
lise I saved; he came towards the boat, attended by one
more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did not only
not know me at sirst, bnt he had no thoughts no notion,
ofits being me that was come, till I spoke to him: Seig-
nior, said I in Portuguese, do you not know me? At which
he spoke not a word; but giving his musquet to the man
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and faying
something in Spanish, that I did not persectly hear,came
forward,and embraced me,telling me he was inexcusable,
not to know that face again, that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven, sent to save his lise: he said a-
bundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spa-
niard always knows how; and then beckoning to the
person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me, if I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
house again, and where I sliould'see there had been but
mean improvements ; so I walked alon^ with him; but
alas ! I could no more sind the place again, than if I had
never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to
one another, in ten years time they were grown so big,
that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings and blind ways, as they themselves only who
made them could sind.
I asked them, what put them upon all these fortisica-
tions f He told me, I would fay there was need enough
•f it, when they had given an account how they had
passed their time since their arriving in the island, espe-
cially after they had the misfortune to sind, that I was
gone:

g««c: he told me he could not have but some satisfac-
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
in a good ship, and to. my satisfaction ; and that he had
oftentimesa strom; peitiafion, that one time or other he
should see me again: but nothing that ever bescl him
in his lise, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to him
at sirst, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found-1 was not there.
As to the thiee Barbarians (so he called them) that
were left behind, and of whom he said he had a long
story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
- much better among the savages, only that their number
was so small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and
with that he crossed himself upon the breast. But, Sir,
fays he, I hope you will not be displeased, when I shall
tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our
own preservation,.to disarm them, and making them our
subjects, who wouldnot be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers. I answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and no-
thing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not come back, that I might have put them in •
possession of every thing sirst, and left the other in a state
of subjection, as they deserved : but if they had reduced-
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from
sinding any fault with it; for I knew they were a parcel
of .refractory ungovernable villains, and were sit for any
manner of mischief.
"While I was saying this, came the man whom he had..
sent back, and with him eleven men more: in tl;p.
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what na-
tion they were of; but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, Sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you ; and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, - he let them know who I was ; upon which
they all came up one by one, not -as if they had been
sailors, and ordinary sellows, and I the like, but really,
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I
a monarch, or a great conqueror: their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet:
B.6. mixed
mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very weH
fcecame them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to retunstWem in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the former partofmyrelatioa
will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given,
that I .cannot but commit them with great delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in
the sirst person, which will put me to the expence of
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's
and I told Kim's, and the like; but 1 shall collect the
facts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my
memory from what Aey related to me, and from what
I met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I left
the island, and which the persons were in, of whom I
am to speak. At sirst it is necessary to repeat, that I had
sent away Friday's father and the Spaniards, the two
whose lives I had rescued from the savages; I fay, I
had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as 1
then thought it, to setch over the Spaniard's companions
whom he had left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he Imd been in; and in or-
der to succour them for the present, and that, if possible
we might together sind some way for our deliverance af-
terward.
When 1 sent them away, I had no visible appearance
cf, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance,
any more than I had twenty years before; much less had
I any foreknowledge of what after happened, I mean of
an English ship coming on shore there to setch them off,
and it could not but be a very great surprise to them,
when they came back, not only to sind that I was gone,
but to sind three strangers left on the spot, possessed of
all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise
have been their own.
The
The sirst: thing, however which I enquired into,
that I might begin where I left osf, was ot their own
part: and I desired he would give me a particular ac-
count of his voyage back to his countrymea with the
boat, when I sent him to setch them over. He told
me there was little variety in that part; for nothing re-
markable happened to them on the way, they having
-very calm weather, and a smooth sea; for his coun-
trymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see ham: (it seems he wa3 the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain of the vessel they
had been shipwrecked in, having been dead some time:)
They were, he said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was sallen into the hands of
savages, who, they were satissied, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he
told them the story of the deliverance, and in what
manner he was surnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them: and their astonishment, they
said, was something like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the
story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but when
he mewed them the arms, the powder, the balL, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey
or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and imme-
diately prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two larae canoes or periagua's on pre-
tence of going out a sishing, or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning; it seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, or any
thing in the world, but what they had on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get osf from the island; leaving three of the most
impudent, hardened, ungoverned disagreeable villains
behind
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with, to
the poor Spaniards great grief and disappointment,
you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when'
the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long
paper of directions, which I had left with them, con-
taining the particular methods which I took for managing
every part of my lise there, the way how I baked my
bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn,
how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
everything I did; all this being written down- they
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English
well enough; nor did they resuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very well
for some time, they gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very seciably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
method, and Friday's sather together, managed all their
afsairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing
but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satissied with this,
would the other but have let them alone ; which, how-
ever, they could not sind in their hearts to do lpng;
but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would net let others eat neither : the
differences, nevertheless, were at sirst but trivial, and
such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and indead, to com-
mon sense; and though it is true, the sirst relation of it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the accusers, yet when I came to examine the sellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I
must supply a desect in my former relation; and this
was, that I forgot to set down among the rest, that,
just as we were weighing'the anchor to set sail, there
hap-
happened a little quarrel on board our ship, whick I was
afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force,
and making two of the most refractory follows prison-
ers, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly danger-
ous words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired, that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had don: for the time past, should
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my Honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so,
when I caused the two men, who were in irons, to be
released and forgiven. .
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night, the wind also falling calm; next merning we
found, that our two men who had been laid in irons,
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wea-
pons; what powder or shot they had, we knew not;
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet
haled .up, and run away with her to their companions
in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues; but they could neither sind
them, nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their plantations, burnt all their houshold-stuff
and surniture, and left them to shift without it; but
having
having no order he let all alone, left every thing as
they found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, came
on board without them.
These two men made their number sive, but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that after they had been two or three days together,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they for a good while, be persuaded .
to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came sirst on shore, the business •
began to go forward; the Spaniards would have per-
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their-
two countrymen again, that, as they said, they might
be all one family ; but they would not hear of it : so
the two poor sellows lived by themselves, and sinding-
nothing but industry and application would make them
live comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the
Spaniards having given' them some corn for seed, and
especially some of the peas which I had left them, they
dug and planted, and inclosed, after the pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well; their sirst
crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was
but a little bit of land which they had dug up at sirst,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and sind them with bread and other eatables;
and one of the sellows, being the cook's mate of the
lhip, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations, as the rice, and the milk, and
such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, when'
the three unnatural rogues, their own . ountrymen too,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them
they
they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at sirst; and
asked them to come and sit down, and see what sine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they demanded: and one of them merrily told them,
if they were ground-landlords, he hoped, if they built
tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant:
them a long lease, and bid them go setch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and raging,
told them, they should see they were not in a jest; and go-
ing to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a sire to dress their victuals, he takes a sire-
brand, and clasps it to the outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on sire; and it would have been all burnt
down in a sew minutes, if one of the two had not run to
the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the sire out with
his seet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honefl man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended
his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their musquets; and the man that
was sirst struck at with the pole, knocked the sellow
down, who began the quarrel, with the stock of their
musquet, and that before the other two could come to
helphim; and then seeing the rest come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The other had sire-arms with them too; but one of
the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they ofsered to
move hand or foot, they were all dead men; and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him re-
solute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sufficient-
3y with the blow ; however, . they were much in the
wrong,
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did net
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them
an account how the rogues had treated them; for the
three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to croud this part with an account of the les-
ser part of their rogueries, such as treading down their
corn, shooting three young kids, and a slic-goat, which
the poor man had got to breed up tame for their store;
and,'in a word, plaguing them night and' day !n: this
manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to sight them all three the sirst time
they had a sair opportunity. In order to this theyre--
solved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my
old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together, at that time, intending to have a sair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see sair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their^
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.
Jt happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two
Englishmen, whom,for distinction, I call the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of.
the barbarous usage they had met w|th from thtir three
countrymen, and how theyhad ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn, that they had laboured so hard
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kids, which was. all they had provided for thtir
sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards,.did not assist them again, they should be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove
the three Englislimcn,. though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and asked them, how they could be so cruel,
they being harmless inoffensive sellows, and that they
wera putting themselves in a way to subsistby their la-
bour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to-
bring things to such persection as they had.
0»s.
43
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What
had they to do there? That they came on shore without
leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the
island; it was none of their ground. Why, fays the
Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they must not
starve. The Englishman replied, like a true ruff-hewn
tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'd, they should
not plant, nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, Seignior, says the Spaniard? Another of the
brutes returned, do! d—n them, they should be servants,
and work for them. But how can you expect that of
them? They are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants. The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given
it to them, and no man had any thing k> do there but
themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that he
would go and burn all their new huts; they should
build none upon their land.
Why, Seignior, says the Spaniard} by the fame rule
we must be your servants too. Ay, fays the bold dog,
and so you shall too, before we have done with you,
mixing two or three G—d d—mine's in the proper in-
tervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However, this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, come
Jack, let us go and have the other brush with them:
we will demolish their castle, I will warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions.
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity ofsered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.
Whither they went or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know;
but it seem they wandered about the country, part of
the night; and then lying down in the place which I
used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept
them-
themselves. The case was this: They had resolved tc
stay till midnight, and so take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, in-
tending to set sire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and as malice seldom sleeps very found, it
was very strange they would not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, tho' a much fairer one than that of
burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, be-
fore the bloody minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither and found the men gone,
Atkins, who j'-feems was the forwardell man, called our
to his comraftfs, ha! Jack, here's the nest; but d—n.
them, the tirds are flown: they mused awhile to think
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad
so soon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it; and with that they shook
hands, and swore to one another, that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
niens habitation; they did not set sire indeed to any
thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and pul-
led them so limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
they stood; they tore all their little collected houshold-
stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a
manner, that the poor men found, afterwards, some of
their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up the
inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered everything
as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done..
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them out
and had resolved to sight them where ever they had been
tho' they were but two to three: so that, had they met
there certainly would have been bloodsoed among them;
for they were all very stoat, resolute scllows,- to give
them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asun-
der,
46 L i- .-. t A .i
tter, than, they themselves eould do to meet; for, aa
*hcy had dogged one another, when the three were gone
-thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the
two went back to sind them, the three were come to the
old habitation again j we shall fee their disferent con-
duct presently. When the three came back, like surious
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they
had been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his sace,
says he to him, And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the same sauce, if you do not mend vour manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his sist, knock-
ed him down, as an ox is selled with a pole-ax, at which
one of the rogues insolent as the sirst, sired his pistol at
the Spaniard immediately; he misled his body indc»d,
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
than he really was, and that put him into sonic heat,
for before he acted all in a persect calm; but now re-
solving to go through with his work, he stooped atfd
took the sellow's musquet whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the man who had sired a*-v^
him ; when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, .
came out, and calling him not to shoot, they stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as .well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and giving the
Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards, considering the seud that was
Ijetween thew and the other two Englishmen, and that
it would be the best method they could take to keep
thej» from one another, told them they would do them
no
ho harm; and if they would live peaceably they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do
mischief with them to-their own countrymen, and had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reason
than to act reason; but being resused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
ing what they would do, though they had no sire arms:
but the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would lhoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them; and if they sell into their hands
alive, they would certainly be hanged. However this
was sar from cooling them; but away they went, swear-
ing and raging like suries of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been
at their plantation, and sinding it all demolished and de-
stroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough; they could scarce have room to
tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange enough to sind, that three
men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed, made light of their threat-
eniags: but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to sind
them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them,
that they were already disarmed: they could not consent,
that they (the two) should pursue them with sire-arms,
and perhaps kill them: but, said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us ; for, as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a sull satissaction for you; and
upon
upon this condition we hope you will promise to use no
violence with them, other than in your defence.
The two Englishmen yielded to this very aukwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not so
many of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is
great pity we should not be all good friends. At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some day* with the Spaniards; for their own
habitation was destroyed.
In about sive days after the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger, halv-
ing chiefly lived on.tnrtles eggs all that while, came
back to \he grove! and sinding my Spaniard who, as
1 have said, was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the side of the creek; they came up in a
very submissive humble maimw, and begged to be re-
ceived again into the samily. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted so unnaturally by
their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards) that they could n»t come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them, and dis-
course about it, andihey should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it;
for it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged he would send them out some bread
in the mean time ; which he did, and sent them at the
same time a large piece of goat's slesh, and a broiled
arrot; which they cat very heartily, for they were
ungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a> long debate had about them, their two country-
men charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned
before, and therefore could not deny now; upon the
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
«hem; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the three, while they were naked and unarmed,
so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows two huts, one to be of the same dimensions,
- . and
ADVENTWRES OF
and the other larger than they were before; also to senc*
their ground again, where they had pulled up the sences,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state
as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could
not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only thatthese
three sellows could never be persuaded to work; I mean
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just a*
they pleased ; however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and gave them liber-
ty to ga abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesome as before; but however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which en-
dangered the sasety cf them all; they were obliged to
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preser-
vation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to fay, the Spaniard whose life I
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
persectly well in body, a9 he told me the story, only
found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran upon
men sighting, and killing one another, but was broad
awake, and could not by any means get any sleep; in
short, he lay a great while; but growing more and more
uneasy', he resolved to rise: as they lay, being so many
of them, upen goat-skins, laid thick upon such couches
and pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks
mocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but One; ib
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise,but
to. get up upon their seet, and perhaps put on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could see little or nothing; and besides, the trees
which I had planted, as in my former account is describ-
ed, and_ which were now grown tall, intercepted his
fight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was
a clear star-light night; and, hearing no noise, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not steep, nor could he compose himself to any
thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them waked,
and, calling, a sked who it was that was up? The go-
vernor told him, how it had been with him: Say you
so? says the other Spaniard; such things are not to be
flighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working, says he, near us; and presently he asked him*
Where are the Englishmen? They are all in their huts,
siys he, sase enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. Well, says the Spaniard, there is something in it,
I am persuaded from my own experience; I am satissied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive in-
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we know how to make use of it.
Come, says he, let us go out and look abroad; and i£
we sind nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of
justice of my proposing it.
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling it
up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
Vol. II. C were
were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light,
as of sire, a very little way off srom them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one, or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages land-
ing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
them making the least discovery of there being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any necessity
they came to know it, they selt it so effectually, that
they that got away, were scarce able to give any ac-
count of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible, nor
<iid ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one
else, except it were the three savages in our last en-
counter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mention-
ed, that I was afraid they fliould go home, and bring
more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those men, that so great a number came now together;
or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not it
seems understand; but wha'ever it was, it had been their
business, either to have concealed themselves, and not
have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen, that there were any inhabitants in the place;
but to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not a
man of them should h.ive eseaped, which could only
have been by getting in between them and their
boats; but this piesence of mind was wanting to them,
which was the ruin of their tranquility for a great
while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this sight; ran back imme-
diately, and raised their sellows, giving them an account
of the imminent danger they wereall in; and they again
as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close within where they were, but
that they must all run out to see how things stood
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough for some hours, to
view them by the light of three fires, they had made
at some diflancs from one another; what they were
doing,
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, sirst, the enemy were too many ; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight: and as they found, that the sellows ran straggling
all over the shore, they made no doubt, but, sirst or last,
some of them w«uld chop in upon their habitation, or
upon some other place, where they would see the tokens
of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also
for sear of their flock of goats, which would have been
little less than starving them, if they should have been
destroyed; so the sirst thing they resolved upon, was to
dispatch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if
need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one
body, and at a distance from their conoes, they resolv-
ed, if there had been and hundred of them, t» have at-
tacked them; but that could not be obtained, for,
they were some of them two miles osf from the other,
and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two disferent
nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
spresent circumstances; they resolved at last, while it
was dark, to send the old savage (Friday'sfather) out,
as a spy, to ler.rn, if possible, something concerning
them, as what they came for, and what they intended
to do, and the like; the eld man readily undertook
it, and, stripping himself, quite naked, as most of
the savages were, away he went: after he had been
gone an hour or two, he brings word, that he had been
among them undiscovered, that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war
with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the sight, they were by mere chance
landed in the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming- so by
chance to the same place, had spoiled all their mirth;
C 2 thaf
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were -
so near, that he believed they would sight again, as soon
as day-light began to appear ; but he did not perceive,
that they had no notion of any body's being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of
telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were
•engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather used all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he
told them, their sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pre-
vail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they
must run out and sec the ^battle: however, they used
some caution, viz. they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling, but went sarther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might se-
curely see them manage the sight, and, as they thought
not to be seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did
see them, as we shall sind hereafter.
The battle was very sierce, and if 1 might believe
the Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive,
-that some of them were men of great bravery, of invin-
cible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the sight.
The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
.could guess which party would be heaten; but then
that party which was nearest our people's habitation,
began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
some of them began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great .consternation, lest any of those that fled
should run into the grove, before their dwelling, for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved, that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever
came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall, and kill them; so that, if possible, not one should
return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
then
tfiem down with the stock of the musquet, not by (hoot-
ing them, for sear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three of the routed
army fled for lise, and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing wh:ther they
went, but running as into a thick wood for uielter ; the
scout they kept to- look abroad, gave notice of this
within, with this addition-, to our men's great satis-
faction, viz. That the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but, sending three
men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round,
and come in behind them, surprize and take them pri-
soners, which was done; the residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes, and got ost' to sea: the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a body together, gave two great
screaming shouts, which they supposed were by way
of triumph, and so the sight ended; and the same day,
about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched
to their canoes, and thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright wa3 over, and they
saw no savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and, viewing the sield of battle, they found
about two and thirty dead men upon the spot; some
were killed with great long arrows, several of which
were found sticking in their bodies ; but most of them
were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen of which they found in the sield of battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows; these
swords were great unweifdy things, and they must be
very strongmen that used them : most of those men that
were killed with them, had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may fay, or, as we call it in English, their brains
knocked out, and several of their arms 'and legs broken;
so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible rage and
sury; they found not one wounded man that was not
stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy till they
have quite killed them, or they carry all the wounded
men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
C3 Th!;
ADVENTURES OF
"This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
Wh'le; the sight had silled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, especi-
ally up oil supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of thole creatures; who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle. And they prosessed to me, that the
thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to-be till they were dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nau'eated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and
filled their minds with unusual terror, that they were
not themielves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I
have been speaking of; and for a great while after
they were very tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough ; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country; but some time aster this, they scll all into
such simple measures a^ain as brought them into a great
tlcal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as 1 had observed;
nnd these three being hilly stout young sellows, they
made them servants, and taught them t;> work for them,
anf, as staves they did well enough; but they did not
take their measures with them as 1 did by my man Fri-
day, via. to begin with them upon the principle of hav-
ing saved their lives, and then instructed them in the ra-
tional principles of lisc, much left of religion, civilizing
«-id reducing them by kind usage, and affectionate ar-
guings 5 but, as they gave them their food every day,
so they gave them their work too,-and kept them sully
employed in drudgery enough; but, they failed in this
By it, that they never had them to assist them and sight
for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part; being all now good
friends (for common danger, as I said above, had
effectually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came
vnder their consideration was, whether seeing the
sivagea particularly haunted that side of the island.
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way of living, and manisestly to
their advantage, they should not rather remove their ha-
bitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
sasety, and especially for the security of their cattle and
corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived, that
they should not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear from
their governor again, meaning me: and if I should*send
any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on
that sxde, where, if they should sind the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and
we were gone, and so our supply would go away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they al-
tered one part of that resolution too, and relolved only
to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part ot
their corn there; and so, if one part was destroyed, the
other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they
used, which it w.is very well they did, viz. That they
never trusted these three savages, which they had taken
prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had
there; much less of the cave/here, which they kept in
case of necessity, as a sase retreat; and thither they car-
ried also the two barrels «vf powder, which I had left
them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had ..caresully co-
vered it sirst with a wall or fortisication, and then with
a grove of frees j so, seeing their sasety consisted en-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
fully convincid; they set to 'work t« cover and conceal
the place yet more effectually than before: to this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartment, they
went on in the same manner, and silled up the rest of
that whole space of ground, from the trees I had se:,
C 4 quite
quite down to the side of the creek, where, as 1 said* I
landed my floats, and even in the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabouts; these stakes also, being of a wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller than
thoscwhiohl had planted, and placed them sovery thick
and close, that when they had- been three or four years
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any conside-
rable way into the plantation: as for that part which I
had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh; and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a pali-
fndo a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate it, but with a little army, to cut it
all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the fame by all the
ground to the right hand, and to the left, and round
even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not so
much as for themselves to come out, but by the ladder
placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up,
and placed again from the sirst stage up to the top;
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it, could come at
them.
This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less
than what they afterwards sound occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has au-
thority of providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction of providence to set it to work; and, would
we listen caresully to the voice of it, I am sully persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives
are now by our own negligence subjected to. But this
by the way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after this
in persect retirement, and had no more visits from the
savages ; they had indeed, an alarm given them one
morning, which put them in a great consternation;
for, some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west tide, or rather end of the island,
which,
which, by the way, was that end where I never went, for
scar of being discovered they were surprized with seeing
above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough ; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night, to make observation : but they had the good luck
to be mistaken; for wherever the savages went, they
did not land at that time ort the island, but pursued
some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen ; one of which, a most turbulent sellow, being in.
a rage at one of the three slaves, which I mentioned
they had taken,- because the sellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seemed a little un-
tractable in his shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a
frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and sell upon-
the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the
sellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed
at his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he
thought he had [cut the poor creature's arm off, ran
to him, and intreatlng him not to murder the poor man,
clapt in between him and the savage, to prevent the
mischief.
• The sellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were work-
ing in the sield about the corn-land) knocked the brute
down: Another of the Englishmen, running at the
same time to help hi9 comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
man, and a third Englishman sell upon them. They had
nonet of them any sire-arm», or any other weapons butr
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made
at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both: This fray
set the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming
in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next
question was, what should be done with them? They had
C 5 been
been so often mutinous, and were so surious, so desperate,
and so idle withal, that they knew not what course to
take with them* for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man;
so that, in short, it was not sase to live with them.
The Spaniard who Was gpvernor,told them in so many
words, that if they had been his own countrymen, he
would have hanged them all; lor all laws, and all gover-
nors, were to preserve society; and those who were dan-
gerous to the society, ought to be expelled out of it; but,
as they were Englishmen, and that it was to thegencious
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said,
they deftred it might not be left to them; for, says he,
I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows; and
with that gives an account, how Will Atkins, one of
the three, had proposed to have all the sive Englishmen
join together, and murder all the Spaniards, when they-
were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to-
Will Atkins: How, Seignior Atkins, fays he, Will you
murder us all? What have you to fay to that? That
hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he
said it was true, and G— d—mn him they would do
it still before they had done with them. Well* but
Seignior Atkins, said the Spaniard, What have we
done to you, that you would kill us? And what would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to pre-
vent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you kill-
us ? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior
Atkins ? fays the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
mating a jest of it, that, had he not been held by_ three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carnage obliged them toconsiderse-
riousty what was tobedone. The two Englishmen and the
Sf aui«f d, who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion,
59
That they should hang one of the three for an example
to the rest; and that particularly it should be he that
had twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet,
and indeed there was some reason to believe he had done
it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition-
with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said; No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them; nay, he said, if he had
been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to fpeak.it should be, that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spa-
niard- that there was no gainsaying it; and, as mercisul
councils are most apt to prevail, where they are so ear-
nestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was
to be considered, what should be done to keep them from
the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and
all, that means were to be used for preserving the so-
ciety from danger: After a long debate it was agreed,
sirst. That they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, and
lest to live where they would, and how they could, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards
or English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to com-
mit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill or destroy any
of the corn ,planting, buildings, sences, or cattle belong-
ing to the society, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them wherever they could sind them.
The- governor, a man of great-humanity, musing up-
on the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn-
ing to the two honest Englishman, said, hold; you must
reflect, that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, and they must not starve; we must
therefore allow them provisions. So he caused to be ad-
ded, That they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by
which time they might be supposed to raise some of tin's
own; that they should have six milch-goats, four he«
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present sub~
listence, as for a store ; and that they should have tools
given them for their work in the sield; such as, six
hatchets, an axe, a saw; and the like: But they should
Lave none of these tools or provisions, unless they would
swear solemnly, thatthey would not hurt orinjure anyof
the Spaniards with them, or of their sellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away,
or to stay ; but, as there was no remedy, they went pre-
tending to go and chuse a place where they should set-
tle themselves, to plant, and live by themselves; and
some provisions were given, but no weapons.
About four or sive days after, they came again for
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked ourselves out
an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient
place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in
my sirst voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to surround
the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my sirst habitation-,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides.of it: so that by
planting others, it would be very easily covered from
the sight, unless narrowly searched for; they desired
some dry goat-fleins for beds and covering, which were
given them; and upon their giving their words, that
they would not disturb the rest, nor injure any of their
plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,
for sowing, and, inawerd, anything they wanted,
but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had got in their sirst harvest, though the quantity
was but small, the parcel of land they had planted be-
ing but little ; for indeed, having all their plantation to
form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards and pots, and such
things,
things, they were quite out of their element, anJ could
make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep-
their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much, so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn, and
other things from the rain ; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mina was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments ia it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation,
a new frolick took these rogues, which, together with
the former villainy they had committed, brought mis-
chief enough upon them, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony; the three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious lise they
led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the Continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them do the laborious part of the
work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone
no sarther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing
but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the
event ; and, if I may give my opinion, they seemed to
be under a blast from heaven for; if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we re-
concile the events of things with divine justice ? It w.is
certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mu-
tiny and piracy, that brought them to the state they
were in; ancTj' as they shewed not the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding
a poor ilave, because he did not, or perhaps could not
understand to do what he was directed ; and to wound
him in such a manner, as no queiHon, made him a
cripple all his lise; and in a place where no surgeon
or medicine could be had for his cure; and, what was
still worse, the murderous intent; or, to do justice to
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure
it was, as was afterwards the formed design they all
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story: The
three sellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and, in very nimble terms- desired to be admitted to
speak- with them: the Spaniards very readily heard
what they had to say, which was this: that they were
tired of living in the manner they did; that they were
not handy enough to make the necessaries the? wanted';
and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to .
take one of the canoes which they came over in, and
give them arms and ammunition, proportioned for their
desence, they would go over to the main, and seck their
fortune, and. so deliver them from the trouble of sup-
plying them with any other provision?.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them, they had
suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that
they would be starved or murdered ^ and bade them
consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved;
if they staid here, for they could not work, and wouM
not work : and they could but be starved abroad; and
and~if they were murdered, theie was an end of them,
they had no wives or children- to cry after them; arrd,
in short, insisted importunately upon their demand, de-
claring that they would go,. whether they would give
them any arms or no..
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that
if they were resolved to go, they should not go like naked
men, - and be in no condition to desend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare their sire arms, having
not enough for themselves.yet they- would let them have
two musquets, -a pistol, and a cutlace, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought sufsicient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, and given
them as much goat's siefli as they could eat while it was
sweet
Tweet, and a great basket-sull of dried grapes, a pot sull
of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they bold-
ly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the se», where
it was at least forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried i5 or 20 men; and therefore was rather
too big for them to manage; but as they had a fair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough: they had made a mast of a long pole, and a
fail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed
or laced together; and away they went merrily enough;
the Spaniards tailed after ttrem, Bon Veajo; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often fay to one another, and
the two honest Englishmen who lemained behind, how
quiet and comfortably they lived, now those three
turbulent sellows were gone ; as for their ever coming
again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts,
could be imagined; when behold, after 22 days ab-
sence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his,
planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards
him at a distance, twa of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched,
and became frighted and amazed to the governor Spa-
niard, and tells them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell
who: the Spaniard pausing a while, says to him, how
do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are savages
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishmen, they aremen
in cloathes, with arms: Nay then, fays the Spaniard,
why arc you concerned? If they are not savages, they
must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon
earth, but will do us good rather than harm.
. While they were debating thus, came the three Eng-
lishmen, and, standing without the wood, which was
new planted, hallooed to them; they presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another
question, viz. What could be the matter, and what made
them come back again.
It was not long besore they brought the men in; and
enquiring where they had bee i, and what they had been
doing 3
doing? They gave them a foil account of their voyagev-
in a rew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, sinding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to
sight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to
the northward 6 or 7 hours, till they C3me to a great
opening, by which they perceived that the land they
law from our island was not the main, but an island;
that entering- that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand north, and several more west;
and, being iesolved to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the islands which lay well, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots, and
some dried sish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women, as well as the merr, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to ear, and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here lour days, and enquired* as
well as they could of them by signs, what nations were
this way, and that way; and were told of several
sierce and terrible people, that lived almost every way;
who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said that they never
eat men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then they owned, that they made a great
seast, and eat tiieir prisoners.
TheEnglishmen enquired, when they had a seast of that
kind ; and they told them, two moons ago, pointing -
to the moon, and then to two singers; and that their-
great king had 200 prisoners now, which he had taken
in his war; and they were seeding them to make them
fat for the next seast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous to see thole prisoners; but the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of .
them, to carry away for their own eating. So they
beekoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun,
and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at fun rising, they would bring some
for them; and accordingly, the next morning, they
brought down sive women, and eleven men; and gave
them to the Englishmen to carry with them on their
voyage.
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at home,
theirstomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do; to resuse the prisoners, would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that offered them;
and what to do with them they knew not; however,
upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and,
in return, they gave the savages that brought them one
of their hatchets, an old key, a knise, and six or seven
of their bullets, which, though they did not understand,
they seemed extremely pleased with; and then, tying
the poor creatures hands behind them, they (thepeople)
dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men:
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited
the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respects
and thanks that could well pass between people, where
on one side, they understood not one word they could
fay, they put off with their boat, and came back to-
wards the sirst island, where, when they arrived, they
set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many of them for their occasion.
Ib their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prisoners, but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they could
fay to them, or give them, or do for them, but was look-
ed upon as going about to murder them; they sirst of
all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at
that, especially the women, as if they had just selt the
knise at their throats ; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the fame
thing; then they concluded it was for sear they should
sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill : if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was fat-
test and sittest to kill sirst; nay, after they had brought
them
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make
a dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them, where their new samily was. And being
told that they had brought them on shore, and put them
into one of their huts, and wers come to beg some
victuals for them; they (theSpaniards) and the other
two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony resol-
ved to go all down to the place, and see them, and did
so, and Friday's sather with them..
When they came into the hut,there they sat all bound?
for when they had brought them on shore, they bound
their hands, that they might not take the boat and
make their escape; there, I say,, they sat, all of them
stark-naked: sirst, there were three men, lusty comely
fellows, well shaped, strait and sair limbs, about 30 or
years of age, aad sive women, whereof two might
be from 30 to 40, two more not above 24 or 25, and the
sifth, a tall comely maiden, about 16 or 17 s the wo-
men were well favouredagreeable persons, both in shape
and seatures, only tawny; and two of them, had they
been persect white, would have passed for handsome wo-
men, even in Londonitselsyhaving very pleasant agreea-
ble countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, espe-
cially when they came afterwards to be cloathed,- and
dressed as they called it, tho' that dress was very indif-
ferent, it must be consessed of which hereafter.
The sight, you- may be sure, was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men of the best behaviour, of the most calm, se-
date tempers, and persect good humour that ever I met
with; and in particular, of the most modesty, as will
presently appear : 1 say, the sight was very uncouth, to
see three naked- men, and sive naked women, all toge-
ther bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
r rh*fc human nature could be supposed to,be, viz. to be
expecting every moment to be dragged out,- and have
their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
. a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The sirst thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Eriday'i
Friday's father, to go in, and see sirst if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their speech:
as soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them, neither could any of
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one of the women. ,
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, that the men into whoso hands they
were fallen were Christians, thatth.y abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed ; as soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a joy, and by such aukward and several
ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in
the next place, to aflt them if they were willing to be
servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away, to save their lives? At which they all sell a
dancing; and presently one sell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their
shoulders, to intimate, that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women
among them would presently be attended with some
inconveniency, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, asked the three men, what they intended to
do with these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants, or as women. One of the
Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said,
I am not going to restrain you from it; you are your own
masters as to that: but this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these women, as
a woman, or wise, he shall take but one; and that
having taken one, none 'else should touch her ; for tho'
we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable,
that while you stay here, the woman any of you takes,
should be maintained by the man that takes her, an4
should be his wise; I mean, seys he, while he continues
here ; and that none else sliould have any thing to do
with her. All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty. The <
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, if tfiey de-
signed to take any of them? But every one answered,.
no: some of them said they had wive* in- Spain, and*
the others did not like women that were notChristians;
and altogether declared, that they would not touchone-
of them; which was an instance of such virtue, as I
have not met with in all my travels: on the other
hand, to be short, the sive Englishmen took them every
one a wise ; that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they
set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's sather lived in my old habitation, which they bad*
enlarged exceedingly within ; the three servants, which
they had fttken in the late battle of the savages, lived'
with them; and these carried on the main part of the
colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found neces-
sity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how sive such re-
fractory ill-matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the -
same woman, especially seeing two or three of them were-
without comparison, more agreeable than the others i
but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrel-
ling among themselves; for they set the sive women by
themselves in one of their huts, -and they went all into
the other hut, and drew lots among them who should
chuse sirst. . -
He that drew to chuse sirst, went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he
that chose sirst,took her that was reckoned the homeliest,
and the oldest of the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it;
but the sellow considered better than any of them, that.
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and she proved
the best wise in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row
thus, and setched out one by one, the terrors of their;
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed, that they were now going to be devouredS ac-
cordingly, when the English- sailor came in and'setched
out
tou* one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered- till they setched the old man,
-Friday's father, who instantly let them know, that the
sive men who had setch'd them out one by one, had
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
When they had done this, and the fright the women
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and the
Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a sew hours,
they had built them every one a new hut or tent for
their lodging apart: for those they had already, were
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
The three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of
the island, so that they continued separate as before:
and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as
•I might fay, three towns were began to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that as it of-
ten happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's
providences are in such a disposition of things, I cannot
fay)' the two honest sellows had the two worst wives:
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit for nothing, and neither seemed bom
to do themselves good, or any one else, had three cle-
ver, diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that
the two sirst were ill wives as to their temper or hu-
.ROBINSON CRUSOJE. 69
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives;
hut my meaning is, they were not alike capable, inge-
nious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace of a flothsul, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management of the seve-
ral little colonies; the two men had so far outgone the
three, that there was no comparison: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they
wanted; aud the reason was, because, according to mv
rule, nature dictated, and that it was to no purpose to sov»
more corn than they wanted; but the difference of the
cultivation, of the planting, of the sences, and indeed-
every thing else, was easy to be seen at sirst view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation quite demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shewn
in its place; yet they had restored all again, and every
thing was floui iHiing and thriving about them; they hail
grapes planted in order, any managed like a vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen any thing of that
kind; and by their good ordering their vines, their
grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thickest pairs
of the woods, where, though there was not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief
which followed happened, they secured their wives and
children, so as thev could never be found : they having
by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood,
which, as I said, grew so easily, made a grove impassa-
ble, except in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part; and then went in by ways of their
•wn leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as 1 justly call them, tho*
they were much civilized by their new settlement, com-
pared to what they were before, and were not so quar-
relsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of
the certain companions of a profligate mind never left
them, and that was their idleness; it is true,'they
planted corn, and made sences; but Solomon's words
were never better veresied than in them; 'Iwent by the
vineyard of the slothful, and it was overgrown with
thorn;' for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds; the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten
in, and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a
dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable-door after the
steed was stolen; whereas, when they looked on the
colony
r
iColony of the other two, there was the very face of in-
dustry and success upon all they did; there was not a
weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of
their hedges: and they, on the other hand, verisied So-
lomon's words in another place: * The diligent hand
«maketh rich ;* for every thing grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had more
tame cattle than the other, more utenlils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were- very handy and
cleanly within doors ; and, having learned the English
ways of dressing and cooking from one of the other En-
glishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board
the ship,they dressed their husband's victuals very nice-
ly; whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it i but then the husband, who, as I said, had been
cook's mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands
of the three wives, they loitered about, sctched turtles
eggs, and caught sish and birds: in a word, any thing
but labour; and they fared accordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably, and the slothsul lived hard
and beggarly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it
is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene, different from all that had
fcbilNSON CRUSOE. ft
of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore sive or six
canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please; and there is no rcom to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of seeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about
It, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
experience, that their only business was to lie concealed,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the savages,
they would gooff again quietly, when their business was
done, having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I fay, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to no but to give no-
tice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to shew themselves; only placing a scout in a
proper

proper place, to give notice when the boats Went off to
lea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole co-
lony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them,
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprize, they found three savages left behind, and ly-
ing sast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed, they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman seast, that
like beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when
the others went, or they were wandered into the woods,
and did not come back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprized at this light,
and persectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor
as it happened, was with them, and his advice was asle-
ed, but he prosessed he knew not what to do ; as for
slaves they had enough already; and as to killing them,
they were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard
governor told me they could not think of shedding in-
nocent blood; for, as to them, the poor creatures had
done no wrong, invaded none of their property; and
they thought they had no just quarrel with them, to
take away their lives.
And here I must, injustice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico
and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men, of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these
Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had nothing of it
in their very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no
outrageous passions, and yet all of them men of great
courage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the unsufferable usage of the three Englishmen,
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the
case of th« savages, as above: after some consultation
they
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone;
but then the governor Spaniard recolledted, that the
three savages had no boat; and that, if they were left
to rove about the island, they would certainly discover
that there were inhabitants id it, and so they should be
undone that way.
Upon this they went back- again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still: so they resolved to awaken
them, and take them prisoners, and they did so: the
poor sellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women,
that they should be murdered and eaten ; for, it seems,
those people think all the world do as they do, eating
mens flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle ; I mean to my palace underthe
hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work; such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &c. and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were et to work, though it was notmuch
they had for them to do; and whether it was by neg-
ligence 'in guarding them, or that they thought the
sellows could not mend themselves, I know not, but one
of them ran away: and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again
•soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in
two days time: this thought terrisied them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good cause in-
deed, that if this sellow got sase home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account that there
were people in the island, as also how weak and sew they
were; for this savage, as I observed before, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they lived, nor had he ever seen
or heard the sire of any of their guns, much less had they
shewn him any other of their retired places, such as the
Vox, II. D Cave
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the tw*
jinglishmen had made, and the like.
_ The sirst testimony they had, that this sellow had
given intelligence of them was, that about two months
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side of the island, where they never used to
come before, and landed about an hour aster sun rise,
at a convenient place, sbout a mile srom the habitation
of the two Englishmen, whete this escaped man had
been kept: as the Spaniard governor said, had theyV
been all there, the damage would not have been so
much, for not a man of them would have escaped: but
the case disfered now very much; for two men to sifty
were too much odds: the two men had the happine/s
to discover them about a league osf, so that it was above
an hour before they landed; and as they landed about
a mile from their huts, it was some time before they
eouid come at them. Now having great reason to be-
lieve that they were betrayed, the siril thing they did,
was to bind the slaves which were left, and cause two
of the three men, whom they brought with the women,
who, it seems, proved very saithsul to them, to lead them
witja their two wives, and whatever they could carry a-
way with them, totheir retired place in the woods, which
I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two sel-
lows hand and foot till they heard sarther. .
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come
on shore, and that they bent their course directly that
way, they opened the sences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and gave them an account of it all; for they went
directly to the place.
When the two poor flighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three, who came with the women, and who
was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards,
with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; ana in the mean time they took their arms,
and what ammunition they had, and retreated toward
the place in the wood, where their wives were sent
keeping' at a distance; yet so that they might see, if
possible, which way the savages tock.
They had not gone sar, but. that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their enemies
come on directly to their habitation, arid in a moment
more could see all their huts and houshold-stuff flaming
up together, to their great grief and mortisication; for
they had a very great loss,- and to them irretriveable,
at least for some time. They kept their station for
awhile, till they found the savages, like wild beasts,
spread themselves all orer the piaeft, rummaging every
way, and every place they could think of, in search for
prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
net secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
some of the wild people nvght come that way, so they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile sarther, bclieve-
ing, as it afterwards happened, that the sarther they
strolled, the sewer would be together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of
a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large; and
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see what might oiler.
They had not stood there long,but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; aiid a little way surther they espied three more
coming aster them,and sive morebeyond them,all coming
the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now iti.great perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep their posture, or sly: but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help came,
they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat in the woods,
and then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
D 2 'vare
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then they
would get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubt-
ed not to aesend themselves, sire excepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, tho' all the savages that were
landed, which were near sifty, were to attack them.
Having resolv'd upon this, they next considered whether
they should sire at the two sirst, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party; by which the two and the sive that
followed would beseparated; at length they resolved to let
the two sirst pass, by, unless they mould spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them The two sirst savages also
consirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from
them towards another part of the wood; but the three,
and the sive after them, came forwards directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they re-
solved to take them in a line as they came; and as they
resolved to sire but one at a time, perhaps the sirst shot
might hit them all three; to which purpose, the man
who was to sire, put three or four bullets into his piece,
and having a fair loop hole, as it were, from a broken
hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of
the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both sire ; so the
other stood ready with nis piece, that if he did not drop
at the sirst shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the sirst was too good a marksman to miss his aim:
for, the savages kept near one another, a little behind
in a line; in a word, he sired, and hit two of them di-
rectly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in
the head; the second, which was the run-away Indian,
was shot thro' the body, and scll, but was not quite dead;
and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the fame ball that went through the body of the se-
cond; and, being dreadsully frighted, though not much
hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
'n a hideous manner.
The sive that were behind, more frighted with the
noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at sirst;
for the woods made the found a thousand times bigger
than it really was; the echoes rattling from one side to
another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming
and making, every sort, a ieveral kind of noise, ac-
cording to their kind, just as. it was when I sired the
sirst gun that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that place
since it was an iflund.
However, all being silent again, and they not know-
ing what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till
they came to that place where their companions lay,
in a condition miserable enough: and here the poor
ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over
the wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed,
enquiring of him how he came to be hurt; and who,
'tis very rational to believe, told them that a flash of sire
first, and immediately after that, thunder from thejr
gods, had killed those two, and wounded him, this,
I fay, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, lo they had never heard
a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard of a gun;
neither knew they any thing of killing or wounding at. a
distance, with sire and bullets; if they had, one might
reasonably believe, that they would .-not have stood so
unconcerned, in viewing the fate of their sellows, with-
out some apprehension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the fame time had no notion of their
danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and
the sirst having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
fly both together among them; and singling out by
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the sifth,
frighted even to death, though not hurt, sell with the
rest ; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made
our two men come boldly out from the tree' ^re
they had charged their guns again; which v
D 3
step; and they were under some surprise, when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of the
men alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one
not at all: this obliged them to fall upon them with
the stocks of their musquets; and sirst, they made sure
of the run-away savage, that had been the cause of all
the mischief; and of another that was hurt in his knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by
gestures and signs, for his lise; but could not fay one
word to them that they could understand. -'
Howe vcr,they signisied tohim tosit down at the foot of
a tree thereby; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece
. of rope twine, which he had by great chance in his
pocket, tied his seet fast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him; and, with what speed they
'could, made after the other two which were gone before
scaring they, or any more of them, should sind the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
58 ADVENTURES OF
'in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance;
however,they had the satisfaction to fee them cross over
a valley,towards th c sea, the quite contrary way from
that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid
of; and, being satissied with that, they went back to the
tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades; for he was gone,
nnd the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to
go away to the place where their wives were, to see if
all was well there; and to make them easy, who were in
fright enough to be sure; for though the savages were
their own country-folks, yet they were most terribly a-
fraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge
they had of them. .
When they came thither, they found the savages had
been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
found it; for indeed, it was inaccessible, by the trees
standing
79
standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were
not; they found, therefore, every thing very sase* only
the women in a terrible fright: while they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants,
and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone in a
body to desend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept the'r, in case the savages should have
roved over to that sde of the country; but they did
not spread so far: with the seven Spaniards came one of
the savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners for,
merly, and with them also came the savage whom the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of
the sev-'n men, and unbound the eighth, and' Drought
him along with them; where, however they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had done the (wo
others, win were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to then; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for
their own preservation: however, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it; but ordered, tlm they should be
sent out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and
be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food: wh;ch was done ;t and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards cam;, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves
to stay any longer there; but taking sive of the Spaniards
and themselves, with four musquets and a pistol among
them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went in
quest of the savages; and sirst, they came to the tree
where the men lay that had been killed; but it Was
-easy to* see, that some more of the savages had been
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given
it over.: from thence they a-dvanced to the sirst rising
'ground,wherethey had stood and seen their camp destroy-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
-of the smoke ; but neither could they here see anv
savages: they then respited, though -with all possible
caution, topo rbrw?.rd towards their ruined plantation:
but a little besore they tame thither, coming in sight of
the sea sliore, they law plainly all the savages embarked
again in their canoes, in or. er to be gone.
They seemed sorry at sirst that there was no way
to come at them, lo give them a parting blow: but
vipon the wh.de, were very well satissied to be rid of
therh
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and
£.11 their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to
come and help them to rebuild, and tc assist them with
needsul supplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any
good, yet, as soon as they heaid cs it (for tkey, living
remote eastward, knew rothing of the matter till all
was over) carre and offered their help and assistance,
and did very friendly work for several dayr, to restore
their habitation', and make necesiaries fer them j and
thus in a little time they were set upon their legs
again.
About two days after this, they had the farther sa-
tissaction cf seeing three of the savages canoes come
driving on shore, and, at some distance from them,
with two drowned men; by which they had reason
to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea, and
had overset some of them; for it blew very hard the
night aster they went off.
However, as some . might miscarry, so on the other
hand- enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
We\Jt of what they had done, as of what happened to
them; and to whet them on to another enterprise of
%hs same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them;
for, except what the sirst man had told them of inha-
titants, they could say little to it of their own know-
ledge; for they never saw one man, and the fellow be-
ing killed that had affirmed it, they had no other wit-
ness to consirm it to them.
It was sive or six months after this, before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men
were in hopes they had not forgot their former bad
luck,
luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable
fleet, of no less than twenty-eight canoes sull of savages
armsd with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war ; and they brought
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our
people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do ; and, in the sirst plat*,
knowing that their being entirely concealed was their
only sasety before^ and would much more be so now,
Xvhile the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved, sirst of all, to take down the huts,
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away
their goats to the old cave; because they supposed the
savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day,
to play .the old game over again, tho' they did not now
land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of
goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and
the next morning early they posted themselves with all
their force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened;
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east-end
•s the island, came ranging along the shore directly to*
-wards the place, to the number of two hundred and
fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was
but small indeed; but, that which was worse, they had
not arms for all their number neither: The WAole ac«
count, it seems, stood thus: First, as to men:
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved
very saithsul.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards-,
*9
Dj To
To arm these they had.
it Musquets ,
5 Pistole
3 Fowling-pieces
5 Musquets, or fowling pieces, which were .taken
by me from the mutinous seamen whom 1 reduced,
a Swords -
3 Old halberts
39
To their slaves they did not give either musquet or fu-
fil, 'but they had every one an halbert, or a long staff,
like a quarter staff, with a great spike of iron sastened
into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every
-one of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could
vimlfcbe prevailed upon, but they would come into the
i'sftgbit and they had bows and arrows, which the Spa-
niards had taken from the savages, when the sirst action
happened, which I have spoken of, where the Indians
foughtwith one another,and thewomen had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so of
ten, commanded the whole; and William Atkins, who,
tho* a dreadsul sellow for wickedness, was a most daring
bold sellow, commanded under him. The savages Came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst
of their sate, had no advantage in their situation; only
that Will Atkins, who now proved a most usesul sellow:,
with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of
bustles, as an advanced guard, with orders te let the sirst
•of them pass by, an.1 then sire into the middle of them;
and, as lopft as he had sired, to make his retreat, as
nimbly as he could, round a part of the wood, and so
come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having
a thicket of trees all before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, .out of all manner of order; an3
Will Atkins let about sifty of them pass by him; then
.feeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
ithree of his raea to sire, having loaded their musquet*
'" 'with
with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they
knew not; but the consternation and surprize was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were frijhted to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and see their
men killeJ, and others hurt, butsee nobody that did it;
when in the middle of their fright, William Atkins, and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest of them;
and in less than a mnute, the sirst three, being loaded
again, gave them a third volley.
Had William Atkins and his Then retired immediately,
as soon as they had sired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured
in their (hot continually,thc savages had b en esfectually
routed^ far the terror that was among them came princi-
pally from ihis^ viz. That they were killed by the Gods
with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that
hurt them ;• but William Atkins, staying to load again,
dilcovered.the cheat; some of the savages, who were at
a distance, spying them, came upon them behind; and
tho'Atkins and his men sired at them also, two or three
times, ami killed above twenty, retiring as sast as they
could, yet. they wounded Atkins himself, and killed
^>rve of his sellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they
did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian staves
who came with the women 5 this Have was a most gal-
lant sellow, atid fought most desperately, killing sive of
them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of
the armed staves, and an hatchet. .
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded,.
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground .
in the wood; and the Spaniards, after sirin< three vol- -
lies upon them, retreated also, for their.number was so
great, and they were so desperate, that tho' above sifty
-ot them were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men, searless of.
.danger, and shpt their arrows like a cloud; and it was
observed, that their wounded men, who were not quite
disabled, were made- outrageous by their wounds, and 
fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
«he Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the .
D 6 iavages
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
Again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,
and heads, with their clubs, and wooden (words, like
true savages: but, sinding our men were gone, they did
rot seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a
kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom; and
shouted twice, in token of their- victory: after which,
they had the mortisicatton to fee several of their wound-
ed men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had htm marched, and char-
ged them again all together at once; but the Spaniard
replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men
sight; let them alone till morning; all these wounded
men will be stiff and fore with their wounds, and faint
with the loss of blood, and so we fliall havethe sewer
ID engage.
The advke was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, That's tru«, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's
the reason I would go on, while I am warm. Well,
Seignior 'Atkins, fays the Spaniard, you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part, we will sight for you, if
you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till
morning; so they waited.
But as it was a cleir moon light night, and they
found the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon
them in the night, especially if they could come to give
them but one volley befare they were discovered. This
they had a fair opportunity to do: for one of the two
Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the sight be-
gan, led them round, between the woods and the sea-
side, westward, and turning short south, they came so
near where the thickest of them lay, that before they
were seen or heard, eight of them sired in among them,
and did dreadsul execution upon them; in half a mi-
nute more eight others sired after them; pouring in
their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not
able to fee who hurt them} or. which way to sty.
The
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expediti*
on, and then divided themselves into 3 bodies and resolved
to sall in among them all together: they had in each body
8 persons; that is to say 24, whereof were 22 men, and
the z women, who, by the way, sought deCperately.
They divided the sire-arms equally in each party,
and so of the halberts and staves. They would have
Aad the women keep back; but they said, they were
resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from among the
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could; th» savages -stood
all together, but were in the utmost consusion, hearing
the noise of our men shouting from three quarters toge-
ther; they would have fought if they had seen us; and
as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some ar-
rows were shot, and poor old Fiiday was wounded, tho*
not dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but,
tunning up to them, sired among them three ways, and
then sell in with the but-ends of their mussuets, their
swords, armed staves, and hatchets; and laid about
them Co well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
fcreaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
Way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two <ight3, about 180 of
them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
thro' the woods, and over the hills, with all the ipeed
that sear and nimble seet could help them to do; and
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they got altogether to the sea-side, where th=y landed*
and where their .canoes lay. But their disaster was. hot
at an end yet; far it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the sea-*ard; so that it. was impossible
for them to put off; nay, the storm continui-ig ail nightj
when the tide came up, their canoes we*t most of them
driven by the surge os the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required insinite toil to get them off; and some
of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.
Our men, tho' gjad of their victory, yet got little rest
that night; but having refreshed themselves as well as
they
they could, they r:folved to march to that part of the
island where the savages were fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the sight had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past reco-
vering life; a sight disagreeable enough to generous
minds; for a-truly great man, tho' obliged by the law of
battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery..
However, there was no need to give any order in this!
case; for their own savages who were their servants,
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the savages army lay, where
there appeared about ico still; their posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the ground, .with their knees up to-
wards their mouth, and the head put between the
hands, leani-g down upon the knees
When our men came within two musquet-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two musquets to
be sired without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that
by their countenance he might know what to expect,
viz. Whether they were still in heart to sight, or were-
so heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged,
and so he might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took ; for, as soon as the savages heard
the sirst gun, and law the flash of the second, they,
started up upon their seet in the greatest consternation-
imaginable; and, as our men advanced swiftly towards -
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind'of an howling noise, which our men did not un-
derstand, and had never heard before, and thus they-
ran up the hills into the country.
At sirst, our men had much rather the weather had.
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they
did notthen consider, that this mightprobably have been-
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as.
not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them:
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this
case. his advice was, to take the advantage that offer-
ed, and clap in between them and their boats; and
To deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any-
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were
against it, for sear of making the wretches fly into the
-woods, and live there desperate; and so thev should
have them to hunt like wild beast, be afraid to stir about
their business, and have their plantation continually
risled, all their tame goats destroyed, and in short, be
Teduced to a lise of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do witk
too men, than with 100 nations; that as they must de-
stroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all
of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he shewed them
the neeeflity of it so plainly, that they all came into it;
so they went to work immediately with the boats, and,
getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried to set some of them on sire; but they were so wet,
thatthey would scarce burn.However, the sire so burned
the upper part, that it soon made them unsit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what
they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods; and, coming as near as they could to our men,
kneeled down and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and some
other words of their langnage, which none of the others
understood any thing of; but as they made pitisul ges-
tures, and strange noises, it was easyto understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone, and never come thither again.
But our men were now satissied, that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but ef-
fectually to prevent any of these people from ever going
home again; depending upon this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colonv was undone: so that, letting them
'know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
•work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one,
that the storm had not destroyed before; at the sight o£
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
•which our people heard plain enough; after which they
Tan about the island like distracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know at sirst what to do
with them. .
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consi-
der, that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; for tho' it is true they had driven
away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind their
main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the
cave in the valley ; yet they found out my plantation at
the bower, and pulled it all to-pieces, and all the sences
and planting about it; trod all the corn under foot; tore
up the vines and grapes, beingjust then almost ripe; and
did our men an inestimable damage, tho' to themselves,
not one sarthing's worth of service.
Tho' our men were able to sight them upon all oc-
casions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them,
or hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble
of foot for sur men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single, for sear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers: the best was, they had no
weapons; sor tho' they had bows, they had no arrows
left, nor any materials to make any, nor had they any
edged tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the same time our
men were also brought to very hard circumstances by
them; for tho' their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled; and
what to do, or which way to turnthemselves,they knew
not: the only resuge they had now, was the stock of
cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. The three Englishmen,
William Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced
to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side »f his head, just under the tem-
ples, so that he never spoke more; and it was very re-
markable, that this was the same barbarous sellow who
cut the poor savage stave with his hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this
time than mine was at any time after I sirst discovered
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my com, and my tame cattle;
for now they had, as I may fay, an hundred wolves upon
the
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The sirst thing they concluded, when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if pos-
sible, drive them up to the farther part of the island,
south-east, that if any more savages come on shore, they
might not sind one another; then, that they would daily
hunt and harrass them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till theyhad reduced their number; and
if they could at last tame them, and bring them to any
thing, they would give them corn, and teach them how
to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and so terrisied
them with their guns, that in a sew days, if any of them
sired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for sear; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and far-
ther, till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up
in the woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced
them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many
were afterwards found dead in the woods, without any
hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts re-
lent, and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my lise: and he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be
able to act as interpreter, and to go among them, and
fee if they might be brought to some conditions, that
might be depended upon to save their lives, and to do
us no spoil. •
It was some time before any of them could be taken;
but, being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner; he was sullen at sirst, and
would neither eat nor drink; but sinding himself kindly
used, and victuals given him, and no violence offered
him, he at last prew tractable, and came to himself.
'. They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
with him, and told him how kind the others would tie
to them all ; that they would not only save their live?
but would give them a part of the ill and to live in, pro-
vided they would give satissaction, that they should keep
in their own bounds, and not come beyond them, to in-
jure or prejudice others ; and that they should have corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread,
and some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk with the rest
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assur-
ing them, that if they did not agree immediately, they
should all be destroyed.
The poor wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the pro-
posal at the sirst osfer, and begged to have some food
given them ; upon which twelve Spaniards and twoEng-
iiihmen, well armed, and three Indian (laves, and old
Friday, marched to the place wher; they were, the 3
Indian staves carried the.11 a large quantity of bread,
and some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the sun,
and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to
the side of an hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions
very thanksully, and were the most saithsul fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never
came out of their bounds ; and there they lived when I
. came to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them; they wanted
. nothing but wives, an i they fjoa would have been a
nation: they were consined to a neck of land, far-
rounded with high r >cks behind them, and lying plain
towards the lea before them, on the south east corner of
the island : they had land enough, and it was ve;y good
and fruitful for they had a piece of land about a mife
and half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make weoden spades, such as
I made for myself; and gave amonsr them 12 hatchets,
and 3 or 4 knives ; and there they lived the most sub-
jected innocent creatures that were ever heard of.'
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquility,
with respect to the savages, till I came to re-visit them,
which was in about two years; not but that now and
then some canoes of savages came on shore for their
.„ , triumphal
triumphal unnatural seasts ; but as they were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
Came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
worth notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonder-
sully civilized by them, andthey frequently went among
them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters; for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly, all
forts of baskets, sieves, bird cages, cupboards, &c. as
also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at such
wtork, when they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
because we surnished them with knives, scistars, spades
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which
they could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like basket work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd;
but was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat,
as against all forts of vermin ; and our men were so taken
with it, that they got th« wild savages to come and do
the like for them: so that when I come to see the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if
they lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
sober sellow, he had made himself such a tent of bas-
ket-work, as I believe was never seen; it was 120 paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the
walls were as close-worked as a basket, in pannels or
squares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, staiid-
r — '' In J-
»» 1 ADVEKTURE* Of
ing about 7 seet high: in the middle was another n*t
above 22 paces round, but built stronger, being eight-
liquare in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
-mery strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof of eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes,
which he had made himself too, out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance of ingenuity in several things whit-h he had no
knowledge of; ht made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the sire; he made himselfchar-
coal for his work, and he formed out of one of the iron
crows a midling good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, sta-
ples and spikes, bolts and hmges. But to return to the
house; aster he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rafters with baftet-work,
so sirm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously
with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a free,
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as, if
it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the
savages made the baskct-work for him..
The outer circuit was covered, as' a lean-to, all
round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from
the 32 angles to the top posts of the inner house, being
about twenty-seet distant; so that there was'a space like
a walk, within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same
wicker work, but much sairer, and divided it into six
apartments, for that he had six rooms on a floor, and
©ut of every one of these there was a door; sirst, into
-the entry or coming into the main tent, and another
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that
this walk was also (divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the samily had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumserence, what other
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered:
as soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
you
: AVIARY'
• . '- -- .4; <. wo
w U oi r j u -N UATIO X It
you had a short passage ftrait before you to the door of
the inner house ; but on either side was a wicker parti-
tion, and a door in it, by which you went, sirst, into
a large room or store-house, 20 feet wide, and about
30 seet long, and through that into another not quite so
long: so that in the outer circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets
or retired rooms to the respective chambers of the inner
circle; and four large warehouses or barns, or what you
please to call them, which went in thro' one another,
two bn either hand of the passage, that led through the
outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of baiket-work, I believe, was never seen
in the world ; nor an house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three
families, that is to say, Will Atkins, and his companion;
the third was killed, but his wise remained with three
children ; for she was,- it seems, big with child when he
died; and the other two were not at all backward to
give the widow her full share of every thing, I mean,
as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c. and when they killed
a kid, or found a turtle om the shore, : so that they all
lived well enough, though it was true, they were not so
industrious as the other two,as has been obierved'already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted; viz. that
as for religion, I don't know that there was any thing
of that kind among them ; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in mind, that there was a God, by the very
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name:
nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the
better for having been married to Christians, as we muft
call them; for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into
any discourse with their wives about a God, or to tails
any thing to them concerning religion;
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say>
the wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak English pretty well; and all the children
tl;ey had, which were near twenty in all, were taught
to speak English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at sirst spoke it in a very broken manner,
like
like their mothers. There were none of those children
above six years old when 1 came thither; for it was not
much above seven years that they had setched these sive
savage ladies, over, but they had all been pretty fruitsul,
for they had all children, more or less: I think the
cook's mate's wise was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good sort of well governed, quiet,
laborious women, modeit and decent, helpsul to one an-
other, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I
cannot call them husbands; and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
about afterwards by my means, or, at least, by the con-
sequence of my coming among thtm.
Having thus given an account of the colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my sive runagade Englishmen, I
must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main
body of the samily; and in whose story there are some
incideats also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances, when they were among the savages; they
told me readily,that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they
were a poor miserable dejected handful of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the
weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but starving: one of them, a grave and very sensible
man, told me, he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wise men to give up them-
selves to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reason offered, as well for present support,
as for future deliverance; he told me, that grief was
the most senseless insignisicant passion in the world; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
view to things to come, and had no share in any thing
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the
affliction than proposed a remedy: and upon this, he
repeated a Spanish proverb; which, tho' I cannot repe?t
in just the same words that he spoke it, yet I remember
I made it into an English proverb of my own thvis:
legally married; both which were

brought
la
. In trouble to be troubled, •• .
Is to have your trouble doubled.
tie ran on then ia remarks upon all the little im-
provements I had made in my solitude; my unwearied
application, as he called it, and howl had made a con-
dition, which, in its circumstance, was at sirst much
worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than
theirs was, even now, when they were altogether: he
told me, it was remarkable, that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any
people that ever he met with; that their unhappy na-
tion, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the
world to struggle with misfortunes; for that their sirst
step in danger, after common esforts are over, was al-
ways to despair, lie down under it and die, without rous-'
ing th?ir thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.
I told him, their case and mine disfered exceedingly;
that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries,
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till
they could provide it: that it is true, I had this dis.
advantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the 'supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands,
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore- was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards
been in your case, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the ship as you did: nay, says he,
we should never have found means to have gotten a
raft to carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore
without boat or fail; and how much less should we
have done, said he, if any of us had been alone! Well,
I desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they land-
erf: he told me, they unhappily landed at a place
where there were people'without provisions; whereas,
had they had the common sense to have put off to sea
again, and gone to another island a little sarther, they
had found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where
there
there were provisions, though no people; that is to fay,
that theSpantards of Trinidad had frequently been there,
and silled the island with goats and hogs at several
times; where they have bred in such multitudes, and
where turtle and lea fowls where in such plenty, that
they could have been in no want of flesh, though they
had found no bread; whereas here they were only sus-
tained with a sew roots and herbs, which ihey under-
stood not, and which had no substance in them, and
which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn-
canibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty
of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove
to civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them
rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but i»
vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust,
that they, who came thither for assistance and support,
should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them bread; intimating, it seems, that none mould set
up for theinstructors of others, but those who could live
without them.
Thev gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they
were driven to; how sometimes they were many days
without any food at all; the island they were upon being
inhabited by a fort of savages that lived more indolent,
and, for that reason, were left supplied with the neces-
saries of lise, than they had reason to believe others
were in the fame part of the world ;' and yet they found
that these savages were less ravenous and voracious,
than these who had better supplies of food.
Also they added, that they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness, the go-
verning Providence of God directs the event of things
in the world; which, they said, appeared in their cir-
cumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a better place to live in,
_ they had then been out of the way of the relief that
happened to them by my means.
Then they gave me an account, how the savages,
vhora they lived among, expected them to go out with
then
tTiem into their wars: and it was true, that, as they had
sire arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose
their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible
both to friends and enemies; buc being without powder
and shot, and yet in a condition, that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars;
when they came in the sield of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they
neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed,
the three halberts they had, were of use to them; and
they would often drive a whole little army before them,
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this they
were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great
danger from their arrows; till at last they sound the way
to make themselves large targets of wood, which they
covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they
knew not; and these covered them from the arrows of
the savages; that, notwithstanding these, they were
sometimes iri great danger, and were once sive of them
knocked down together, with the clubs of the savages,
which was the time when one of them was taken pri-
soner; that is to say, the Spaniard, whom I had relieved:
That at sirst they thought he had been killed, but when
afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner, they were
under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willing-
ly have all venturea their lives to have rescued him.
They tcld me, that when they were so knocked down,
the rest of their company rescued them, and stood over
them, sighting till they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they made
their way with their halberts and piece.-, standing close
together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got
the victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow,
because it was with the loss of their friend; whom the
other party sinding him alive, carried oft' with some
others, as I gave an account in my former.
vol. 11. E They
They described most affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild
men; and, yet how more and more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, and that
there was a Christian in a place near, much more one
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute,
to their deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight
«f the relief I lent them, and at the appearance of
loaves of bread, things they had not seen since their
coming to that miserable place; how often they crossed
it, and blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it; as also
of the other things I had sent for their supply. And,
after all, they would have told me something of the
joy they were in, at the sight of a boat and pilots to
carry them away to the person and place, from whence
all these new comforts came; but they told me, it was
impossible to express it by words; for their excessive
joy driving them to unbecoming extravagancies, they
had no way to describe them, but by telling me, that
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent
to their passion, suitable to the sense that was upon them;
that, in some it worked one way, and in some another;
and that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would
burst out into tears; others be half-mad, and others im-
mediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me,
and called to my mind Friday's extacy, when he met
his father, and the poor people's extacy, when I took
them up at sea, after their ship was on sire; the mate of
the ship's joy, when he found himself delivered in the
place, where he expected to perish; and my own joy,
when, after twenty-eight years captivity! I found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country: All these
things made me more sensible os the relation of these
poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things,
as I found them, I must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which 1 left them.
It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled
troubled- no more with the savages; or that, if they
were, they would be able to cut them oft', if they were
twice as many as before; so that they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discdurse
with the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their
stay in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any
of them oft', so it would not be just to carry oft' some,
and leave others, who perhaps, would be unwilling to
stay, if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them, I came to establish
them there, not to remove them ; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds
for them: That I had been at a great charge to supply
them with all things necessary; as well for their con-
venience, as their desence; and that I had such par-
ticular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employ-
ments which they were bred to, being artisicers, to
assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them;
and before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one b/one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the sirst animosities that had been among them,
and could shake hands with one another, and engage in
a strict friendship, and union of' interest, so that there
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
William Atkins, with abundance of srankness and
good humour- said, They had met with asflictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough
to make them all friends: That, for his part, he would
live and die with them; and was so fur from designing
any tiling against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they
had done nothing to him but what his own bad.hu-
mour made necessary, and what he would have done,
and, perhaps, much worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish
and brutish things he had done to them; and was very
willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friend-
ship and union with them; and would do any thing
that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years.
E 2 The
758721 A
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at sirst, dis-
armed and excluded William Atkins, and his two coun-
trymen, for their ill conduct, as they had let me know;
and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William. Atkins had behaved
himself so bravely in the great sight they had with the
savages, and on several occasions since, and had shewed
himself so faithful to, and concerned for the general in-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past ; and thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with neceflaries, as any of them;
and that they had testisied their satisfaction in him, by
commiting the command to him, next to the governor
himself: and as they had an entire considence in him,
and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged, they
had merited that considence, by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted: and
they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never hav£ any interest
separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together;
and indeed, we made a splendid seast: I caused the
ship's cook, and his mate to come on more, and drese
our dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on shore,
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef,
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
with our punch bowl, and materials to sill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the
Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many
years; and which it may be supposed, they were ex-
ceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our seast sive whole- kids,
which the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board our ship to the seamen, that
they might seast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
with their salt meat from on board.
After this seast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that
there might be no dispute about dividing, I shewed them
there was sufficient for them all; and desired, that they
might
might all take an equal quantity of the goods that were
for wearing ; that is to fay, equal when made up. As
sirst, I distributed linen sufficient- to make every one of
them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard's requell, after-
wards made them up six; these were exceedingly comfort-
able to them, having been what, as I may fay, they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
1 allotted the thin Eng'ifh stuff-, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged sittest for the heat of the st afon, cooi
and loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed,
they should make mere, aj they thought sit i The like
for pumps, shoes, stockings and hat«, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, fat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care I had taken of them, and how well I had
surnished them: they told me, I was a father to them:
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place: and they all
voluntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place with-
out my consent.
Then i presented to them the people I had brought
with me; particularly the taylor, the smith, and the
two carpenters, all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, ray general artisicer, than whom they could
jiot name any thing that was more needsul to them; and
the taylor, to shew his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every
one a shirt the firft thing he did; and, which was still
more, he taught the women not only how to few and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make
the shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I /carce need mention how use-
ful they were, for<hey took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy things, and made them clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every
thing they wanted of that kind.
But, to let them see how nature made artisicers at fust,
I carried the carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-
house, as I callea it ; and they both owned, they never
law an instance of such natural ingenuity before; nor
E 3 an -
any thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of
its kind: and one of them, when he saw it, after mu-
sing a good while, turning about to me, 1 am sure, says
he, that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
b'ut give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake.,
for we had no harrows, or ploughs; and, to every se-
parate place, a pickaxe, a crow, a broadaxe, and a saw;
always appointing that as often as any were broken, or
worti out, they should be supplied, without grudging,
out of the general stores that 1 left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives,
scissars, and all forts of tools, and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted; and he must be a fool
that would waste or spoil them, on any account what-
soever: And, for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to prosusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as I used
to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there was
occasion; and were able to sight 1-00 savage.-;, if they
had but some little advantages of situation; which also
they could not miss of, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mo-
ther was starved to death, and the maid also; she was a
sober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
haved io inoffensively, that every one gave her a good
word: She had, indeed, ah unhappy lise with us, there
being nu woman in the ship but herself; but the bore it
with patience. After a while, seeing things so well or-
dered, and in so sine a way of thriving upon my island,
and considering that they had neither business or ac-
quaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so
long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to rer
.-*fnain on the island, and be entered among my family,
as they called it
I agreed to it readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents < r
houses
houses set up, surrounded with a basket work, pallisadoed
like Atkins's.and adjoining to his plantation ; their tents
were contrived so, that they had each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store-
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habi-
tation to the same place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the sirst servants, at my old habitation
under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city,
and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as vvell under, as on the outside of the hill, that they
lived, tho' persectly concealed, yet sull at large. Never
was their such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I be-
lieve, in any part of the world: For, I verily believe,
iooo men might have ranged the island a month, and,
if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; sor the
trees stood so thick, and so close, and grew so sast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them1 down
first, could discover the place; except the two narrow
entrances where they went in and out, could be sound;
which was not very easy: One of them was just down at
the water's edge, on the side of the creek; and it was
afterwards above 200 yards to the place ; and the other
was up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it ; and they had a large wood, thick planted,-
also, on the top of the hill, which contained above an
acre, which grew apace, and covered the place from all
discovery there, with only one narrow place between two
trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will. Atkins's, where
there were four samilies os Englishmen, I mean those I
had left there, with their wives and children; three
savages, that were slaves; the widow and children of
the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the
maid, and, by the way, we made a wise of her also,
besore we went away: There were also the two carpen-
ters and the taylor, who I brought with me for them:
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them,
especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man whom;I called Jack of all trades;
E 4^ who
who was himsels as good almost as twenty men, for he
was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry
fellow; and, before I went away, we married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the (hip;
whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally
to say something of the French ecclesiastic, that I had
brought with me out of the ship's crew, whom I took
at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and perhaps,
it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record, of a man, whom, before I
begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in
teriws very much to his disadvantage, In the account of
Protestants; as sirst, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
-Popish Priest; and thirdly a French Popish Priest.'
But justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious,
and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive
in his charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he
did: What, then, can any one say, against my being
very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstand-
ing his prosession? Though it may be my opinion,
perhaps, as well as the opinion of others, who shall read
this, that he was mistaken.
The sirst hour that I began to converse with him,
aster he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies,
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversa-
tion: And he sirst began with me about religion, in
the most obliging manner imaginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God (and, at
that, he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and, by
your ob iging civilky, have taken me into your samily,
giving me an opportunity of free conversation: Now,
Sir, says he, you see by my habit, what my prosession
is; and I guess by your nation, what your's is: I may
think it is my duty, and, doubtless, it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
souls that I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am here under
your permission, and in your family, I am bound in
justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good
manners,
manners to be under your government; and therefore,
I shall not, without your leave, enter into any debates
on the points of religion, in which we may not aeree,
farther than you shall give me leave.
I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; that it was true, we were
such people as they call heretics; but, that he was
not the sirst Catholic that I had conversed with, with-
out salling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the
questions to any height in debate; that he should not
si :d himself the worse used for being of a different opi-
nion from us; and if we did not converse without any
dislike on either side, upon that score, it would be his
sault, not ours.
He repliedj that he thought our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not hh
business to cap principles with every man he discoursed
with; and that he rather desired me to converse witl»
him as a gentleman, than as areligieux; that if I would
give him leave, at any time, to discourse upon religious
subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then he did not doubt but I would allow him also to
desend his own opinions, as well as he could: but that,
without my leave, he would not bj eak in upon rjne with
any such thing.
He told me sarther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his office, as a priest, as well as a
private Chfictian, to procure the good of the (hip, an <
the sasety of all that was in her: and though, perhaps,
we would not join with him, and ha could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he would da
upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and,
as he was of a most obliging gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was, if I may lieallowed to fay so, a man of gou4
sense, and, as I believe, os great learning.
He gave me a iaost diverting account »f Utlisr,
and of the many extraordinary events «f it; of mariy
adventures which had besallen him in the few? years
that he had been abroad in *he world, .and particu-
larly this was vejy remarkable; viz. that during the.
voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune
to be sive times shipped and uu&ipped, and never tat ga
• Es to
to the place whither any of the ships he was in, were at
sirst designed: that his sirst intent was, to have gone to
Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound
thither,at M.Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in
bad weather, the ship received some damage.by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was ob-
liged to unload her cargo there: That sinding a Portu-
guese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to fail,
and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there,
bound to Martinico, he went on board, ia order to sail to
the Madeiras; but the Master of the Portuguese ship
being but an indifserent mariner, had been out iu his
reckoning, and they drove to Fial; where, however, he
happened to sind a very good market for his cargo,
which was corn; and theresore resolved not to go to the
Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to go away
to Newfoundland: He had no remedy in the exigence,
bat to go with the ship; and had a pretty good voyage
as far as the Banks, lo they call the place where they
catch the sish, where mdeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in theri ver of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
shou'd have an opportunity to complete his first design:
But when he came to Quebec, the master of the ship died,
and the ship proceeded no farther: So the next voyage
be shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burnt,
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped them
with us for the East Indies, as I have already said.
Thus he had been disappointed in sive voyages, all, as
I may call it, in one voyage, besides what 1 shall have
occasion to mention farther of the same person.
But I shall not make digressions into other men;
stories, which have no relation to my own. I return
to what concerns our affair in the island: He came to
me one morning, for he lodged among us all the while
we were upon the island; and it happened to be just
when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at
the farthest part of the island; I lay, he came to me,-
and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he
had, for two or three days, desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which, he hoped,- would not -
iv displeasing to me, because he thought it might, in
fume
some measure, correspond with my general design*
which was the prosperity of my new colony; and,
perhaps, might put it, at least; more than he ye'
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course; and turning a little short, how, Sir, said I, can
it be said, that we are not in the way of God's blessing,
after such visible assistances, and wondersul deliver-
ances, as We have seen here, and of which I have given-
you a large account?
If you had pleased, Sir, said he, (with a world of
modesty, and yet with great readineb) to have heard
me, you would have found no room to have been dis-
pleased, much less to think- so hard of me, that I should
suggest, that you have not had wondersul assistances and
deliverances: And, I hope, on your behalf, that you
are in the way ot God's blessing, and your design'is ex-
ceeding good and will proiper. But, Sir, said he, tho'
it were more Ib, than is even possible to you, yet there
may be some among you, that are not equally right in
their actions: And you know, that in the story of
Israel, one Achan, in the camp, removed God's bles-
sing from- them, and turned-his hand so against them,
that thirty-si.x of them, though noi concerned in the
crime, where the objects of divine vengeance, and
bore the weight of that punishment.
I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told
him, his inserence was so just, and the whole design
seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own
nature, that I was very lorry I had interrupted him;
and begged him- to go oa: And, in the me.an time,
because it seemed, that what we had both to say, might
take up some time, I told him, I was going to the Eng-
lishman's plantation: and asked him to go with me, and
we might aiscourse of it by'the way: He told me, he
would more willingly wait on me thither, because there
partly, the thing was acted, which he desired to speak
to me about: So we walked on, and I pressed him to
be free and plain with me, in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a sew propositions, as^ the foundation of
what L have to fay, that we may not differ in the ge-
E 6 ntra'
neral principles, tho' we may be of some differing opi-
nions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though we
disfer in some of the doctrinal ankles of religion, and
it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the case
before us, as I shall shew afterwards; yet, there are some
general principles in which we both agree; viz. First,
that there is a God; and that this God, having given us
some stated general rules for our service and obedience,
we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend him,
either by neglecting to do what he has commanded, or
by doing what he has expressly forbidden: and let our
disferent religions be what they will, this general prin-
ciple is readily owned by us all: That the blessing
of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sin-
ning against his command: and every good Christian
will be asfectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care, living in a total neglect of God and his
^commands. It is not your men being protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me
from being concerned for their souls, and from endea-
vouring, is it lies before me, that they should live in as
little distance from, and enmity with, their Maker as
possible.; especially, if you give me leave to meddle so
sar in your circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told
him, I granted all he said, and thanked him, that
he would so sar concern himself for us; and begged he
would explain the particulars, of what he had observed,
that, like Joshua (to take his own parable) I might put
away the accursed thing from us.
Why, then, Sir, says he, I will take the liberty you
give me; and there are three things, which, if I am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon
your endeavours here, andSvhlch I should rejoice, for
your fake, and their own, to see removed. And, Sir,
says .he, I promise myself, that you will sully agree with
me in them all, as soon as J name them; especially, be-
cause I shall convince you, that every one of them may,
with great ease,-and very much to your satisfaction, be
remedied.
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities,
but went on. First, Sir, says he, you have here four
Englishmen,
Englishmen, who have setched women from among the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have
had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the
sense of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adul-
tery. To this, Sir, says he, I know you will object,
that there was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, Of
of any prosession, to perform the ceremony; nor any
pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of mar-
riage, and have it signed between them. And I know
also, Sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you; f
mean, of the agreement that he obliged them to make,
when they took thele women, viz. That they should chuse
them out by consent, and keep separately to them;
which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agree-
ment with the women as wives, but only an agreement
among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the essence ot the sacrament of matrimony
(so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only in the
mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man
and wise, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman,
at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the man to abstain from all other women, to eng; ge
in no other contract while these subsist; and on all ot* a-
iions, as ability allows, t© provide honestly for thym,
and their children; and to oblige the women to the same,
or like conditions, mutatitmutandis, on their side.
Now, Sir, says he, these menmay, when they please,
or when occasion preients, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women, and many them whilst these are living. Ani
here he added, with some warmth, How, Sir, is God
honoured in this unlawsul liberty? And how shall a
bleffing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design,
while these men, who at present are your subjects, under
your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?
I consess, I was struck at the thing itself, but much
more with the convincing arguments he supported it
with}
with; for it was certainly true, that though they had no
clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract on both
sides, made before witnesses, and consirmed by any
token, which they had all agreed to be bound by, tho'
it had been but the breaking a stick between them, en-
gaging the men to own these women for their wives upon
all occasions, and never to abandon them or their chil-
dren, and-the women to the fame with their husbands,
had been an effectual iawfpl marriage in the sight of
God; and it was a great neglect that it was not dcte.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest,
by telling him, that all that part was done when I was
not here; and ihey had lived ib many years with them-
now, that if it was an adultery, it was past remedy;
they could do nothing in it now.
Sir, fays he, asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this; that it being done in your ab-
sence, you could not be charged with that part of the
Crime. But I beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you
are not therefore under an obligation to do your utter-
most now to put an end to it: how can you think, but
that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt-
for the suture, will lie entirely upon you; Because it is
certainly in your power now to put an end to it; and in
nobody's power but your's.
1 was so dull Hill, that I did not take him right ; but
I imagined, that, by putting an end to it, he meant,-
that I should part them, and not suffer them to live toge-
ther any longer: and I said to him, I could not do that
by any means, for that it would put the whole island in
consusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far*
mistake him. No, Sir, says he, I do not mean that
you should separate them, but legally and effectually
marry them now: and, Sir, as my way of marrying
may not be so easy'to reconcile them to, tho' it will be
as effectual, even by your own laws ; so your way may
be as well besore God, and as valid among men; I
mean, by a written contract, signed by both man and
woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the
laws of Europe would decree to be valid.
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity of zeal, besides die unusual impartiality in his
discourse,
discourse, as to his own party or church: and such a true
warmth for the preserving people that he had no know-
ledge of, or relation to: I iay, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God; the like of which I had,
indeed, not met with any where. But recollecting what
he had said, of maming them by a written contract,
which I knew would Hand too; I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his part, very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them.
And 1 knew no reason why they should scruple to let
him marry them all ; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England,- as
if they were married by one of our own clergymen.—
What was 'afterwards done in this matter, I mall speak
of by itself.
1 then prefled him to tell me, what was the second
complaint which he had to make; acknowledging, that
I was very much his debtor for the sirst j and thanked
him heartily for it. He told me, he would use the same
freedom and plainness in the second; and hoped I
would take it as well: and this was, that, notwith-
standing these English subjects of mine, as he called
them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even
to read it; and that they were, as he peceived, women
of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction;
yet they had not to this hour taught them any thing of
the Christian religion ; no, not so much as to know that
there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner God
was to be served; or that their own idolatry, and wor-
shipping they knew not who, was false and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account for;
and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. I am per-
suaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage coun-
try, whence their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters,
and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far
as I can see, has taken with them, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir, said he, tho' I
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the
subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general
principles of the Christian religion; that they might, at
least, hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the Re-
surrection, and of a suture state, things which we all
believe; they had, at least, been so much nearer coming
into the bosom of the true church, than they are now in
the public prosession of idolatry, and devil-worship.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and
embraced him with an excess of passion: how far, said
I to him, have I been from understanding the most es-
sential part of a Christian, viz. to love the interest as
the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls.
I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
O Sir, do not fay so, replied he; this thing is not your
fault. No! saiu I, but why did I never lay it to heart
as well as you? It is not too late yet, said he; be not
too forward to condemn yourself But what can be done
now? said I; you seel am going away. Will you give
me leave, said he, to talk with these poor men about it .*
Yes, with all my heart, said I, and will oblige them to
give heed to what you say too. As to that, said he, we
must ltave them to the mercy of Christ} but it is our bu-
siness to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them;
and if you will gi ve j;ie leave, and God his blessing, I
do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be
brought home into the great circle of Christianity, if not
into the particular faith that we all embrace; and that
even while you stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not
only give ycu leave, but give you a thousand thanks for
it. What followed on this account I shall mention also
again in its place.
I now pressed him for the third article in. which we
were to blame: Why really, fays he, it is of the fame
nature, and I will proceed (asking your leave) with the
same plainness as before: it is about your poor savages
yonder, who are (as I may fay) your conquered subjects,
it is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought ta be, received
among all Christians, of what church, or pretended
church soever; viz. that Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated by all possible means, and-on all possible
occasion?.
occasions. . It is on this principle that our church sends
Tniffionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
refidence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, Sit, you
have an opportunity here, to have six or seven and
thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good; which is really worth the expence of a man's
whole lise.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not on*word
to fay: I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me, let his particular principles
be of what kind foever: As for me, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before;
and, I believe, should not have thought of it; for I
looked upon these savages as slaves, and people, whom*
had we any work for them to do, we would have used
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other part of the world; for our business
Was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tissied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the cafe: I say I was
confounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some disorder: Sir, said he, I shall be very sorry, if what
I have said gives you any offence. No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly
consounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any notice cf this before, but with reflecting what no-
tice t am able to take of it now. You know. Sir, said I,
what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East-
Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain
their ship here, the men lying all this while at victuals
and wages upon the owner's account: it is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve days here ; and if I stay
more, I must pay 3I. sterling per diem demurrage; nor
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more; and
I have
I have been here thirteen days already; so that I am-
persectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again ; in which case*
if this single ship should miicarry in any part os her
voyage, I stuuld be just in the same condition that I
was left in here at sirst - and from which I hav« been-
so wondersully delivered.
He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my
voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether
the blesting of saving seven and thirty souls, was not
worth my venturing all I had in the world for t I was
not so sensible os tha. as he was; and I returned upon
him thus: Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to
be an instrument, in God's hand, to convert seven and
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you
are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so
that it seems naturally to sall into the way of your pro-
festion ; how is it then, that you do not rather offer your-
self to undertake it, than press me to do it?
Upon this he saced about, just before me, as he walk-
ed along, and putting me to a sull stop, made me a
very low bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir>
fays he, sor giving me so evident a call to so blessed a
work; and if yuu think yourself discharged srom it,
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,-
and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and-
disficulties of such a broken disappointed voyage as I
have met with, that I have dropt at last into so glorious
a work.
I discovered a kind of rapture in his sace, while he
spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like sire, his sace
glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
been salling into sits ; in a word, he was sired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while, before 1 could tell what to say to him;
for I was really surprised to sind a man of such since--
rity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the
* ordinary rate of men, not out of his prosession only, but
even of any prosession whatsoever: but, after I had con-
sidered it a while, I asked him seriously, if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture on the single consi-
deration of an attempt on those poor people, to be locked
up
up in an implanted island, for, perhaps, his lise; and,
at last, might not know whether he should be able to do
them any good, or not.
He turned short upon me, and asked me, what I called
a venture: pray, Sir, said he, what do you think 1 con-
sented to go in your ship to the East-Indies for? Nay,
said I, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he; and do you think,
if I can convert these seven and thirty men to the saith
of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never
be setched off the island again? Nay,is it not insinitely
of more worth to save io many souls, than my lise is,
or the lise of twenty more of the same prosession? Yes,
Sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souk of these poor men, though
J was never to set my soot off this island, or see my na-
tive country any more: but, since you will honour me,
fays he, with puifting me into this work (for which I
will pray for you all the days of my lise) I have one
humble petition to you, says he9 besides. What is that?'
said I. Why.siiyshe, it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to
assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak to
them, or they to me.
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday .because.
I could not think of parting with him, and that ior many
jeasons; he had been the companion of my travels.;
he was not only saithsul to me, but sincerely affectionate
to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something
considerable sor him, if he outlived me, as it was pro-
bable he would: then lknew, thatasJ had bred Friday
up to be a protestant, it would quite consound him, to
bring him to embrace another prosession; and he would
never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was an heretic, and would be damned; and this
might in the end ruin the poor sellow's principles, and
so turn him back again to his original idolatry.
However, a sudden thought relieved me in this
strait, and it was this; I told him, I could not say,
that I was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever; though a work, that to him was of more
value
•value than his lise, ought to me to be of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a seivant. But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would
by no means consent to part with me; and then to
force him to it, without his consent, would be a mani-
sest injustice; because I had promised I would never
put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me, that he would never leave me, unless I put him
away.
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood; and he should serve him for an inter-
preter; so he was much better satissied, and nothing
could persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to
convert them; but Providence gave another and very
happy turn to all this.
I come back now to the sirst part of his objections.
'When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all
together; and after some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
which they were sensible of, and very thanksul for; I
began to talk to them of the scandalous lise they led,
and gave them a sull account of the notice the clergy*
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a lise it was, I sirst asked them
if they were married men or batchelors ? They soon ex-
plained their condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men or batchelors. I asked them, with what conscience
they could take these women, and lie with them, as
they had done, call them their wives, and have so many
children by them, and not to be lawsully married to
them f
They all gave me the answer that I expected } viz.
that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives;
and to keep them, and own them, as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally
legally married as is they had been married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I tald them, that no doubt they were married in
the sight of God, and were bound in conscience to
keep them as their wives; but that th? iaws of men
being otherwise, they might pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor women and children here-
after; and that their wives being poor desolate wo-
men, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
help themselves^ { therefore told them, that unless I
was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did mould
be for the women and children, without them; and
tftat unless they would give some assurances that they
would marry the women, ] could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wife;
for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them, if they
went on thus
All this passed as I expected ; and they told me,
especially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the
rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they had
been born in theiv own native country, and would not
leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them,
and for their children, as any women could possibly do;
and they would not part with them on any account :—
And Will. Atkins, for his own particular, added, if any
man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and to make him captain of the best man of
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might
not carry his wise and children with hint; and if there
was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to
her now, with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was
not with me at that moment, but was not sar off:
So, to try him sarther, I told him 1 had a clergymaa
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: He said, as for himself, he
need not consider of it at all; for he was very ready to
do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he
believed they would be ail willing also. I then told
him, that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman,
and could not speak English; but that I would act the
clerk between them. He never to much as asked me
whether he was a papist or a protestant, which was in-
deed what I was afraid of; but 1 fay they never en-
quired about it.—So we parted. I went back to my
clergyman, and Will. Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to
fay any thing to them till the business was thoroughly
ripe; and I told him what answer the men had given
me.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me, they had been considering what I had
said; that they were very glad to hear I had a clergy-
man in my company; and they were very willing to
give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased; for they were far from
desiring to part from their wives; and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest, when they chose
them; so I appointed them to meet me the next morn-
ing; and that in the mean time they should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage-law, and that
it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to
oblige them, that they mould not forsake them; what-
ever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satissied with it,
as, inieed, they had reason to be; so they failed not
to attend all together, at my apartment, the next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman , and though
he had- not on a minister's gown after the manner
of' England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner
of France; yet having a black vest, something like a
cassock, with a fash round it, he did not look very un-
like a minister; and as for hit language, I was his in-
terpreter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and'
the scruples he made of marrying the women, because
they were not baptized, and prosesied Christians, gave
them an exceeding reverence for his person; and
there
there was no need after that to enquire whether he was
a clergyman or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been car-
ried so sar, as that he would not have married them at
all; nay- notwithstanding all I was able say to him,
he resisted me, though mouestiv, yet very steadily ; and
at last resused abiolutely to marry them, unless he had
sirst talked with the men, and the women too: and
though at sirst I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of
his design.
When he came to them, he let them know, that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the
present design; that he was very willing to perform
that part of his sunction, and m.irry them, as I had
desired; but that besore he could do it he must take the
liberty totaik with them. He told them, that in the
sight of all different men, and in the sense of the laws
of society, they had lived all this while in an open adul-
tery; and that it was true, that nothing but the con-
senting to marry, or effectually separating them from
one another now could put an end to it; but there was
a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian
matrimony, which he was not sully satissied about, viz.
that of marrying one that is a prosessed Christian, to a
savage, an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not bap-
tized; and yet that he did not see_. that there was time
left for it, to endeavour to persuade the women to be
baptized, or to prosess the name of Christ, whom they
had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which
they could not be baptized.
He told me, he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little know-
ledge of God, or his ways, and therefore he could not
expect that they had said much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
use their endeavours with their wives, to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages ; nor was
it
it consistent with the principles of the Christian re-
ligion; and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very faithsully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as 1 could, only sometime! adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them howjustitwas,
and how I was of his mind; and 1 always very faith-
sully distinguished between what 1 said from myself,
and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me, it was very true what the gentleman had said,
that they were but very indifserent Christians them-
selves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. Lord, Sir, CaysWill. Atkins, how should
we teach them rerigion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, Sir, said he, should we go to talk
to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
'twould but make them laugh at us, and ask us what
we beiieve ourselves f And if we should tell them, we
believe all the things that we speak of to them, such
as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they wouid ask us, where we intended to
go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked sellows, as indeed ws are? Why, Sir, said Will,
'tis enough to give them a surseit or religion at sirst
hearing. Fol:t* mull have some religion themselves
besore they prttend to teach other people. Will.
Atkins, said X to him, though 1 am afraid what you say
has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your
wise, that she is in the wrong f That there is a GoJ,
and a religio.i, better than her own; that her gods are
idols, that they can m ither hear nor speak; that there
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he has m^de; that he rewards the good,
and punishes the bad; that we are to be judged by him
at last, for all we do here: you are not so ignorant, but
even nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and 1 am satissied you know it all to be true, and believe
it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what face
can I fay any thing to my wise of all this, when she will
tell me immediately, it cannot be true!
Not
Not true, said I, what do you mean by that? Why
Sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be true, that this
God (I shall tell her of) can be just, or can punish, or
reward, since I am not punished, and sent to the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I
have been, even to her, and to every body else , and
that I should be suffered to live, that have been always
acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to
what I ought to have done.
Why truly, Atkins, said I, I am afraid thou speak est
too much truth; and with that I let the clergyman know
what Atkins had said; for he was impatient to know :-—
O '. said the priest, tell him there is one thing will
'make him the best minister in the world to his wise, and
that is repentance; for none teach repentance like true
penitents; he wants nothing, but to repent, and then
he will be so much the better qualisied to instruct his
^wise; he will then be able to tell her, that there is
not only a God, and thatheisthejustrewarder of good
and evil; but that he is a mercisul being, and, with in-
sinite goodness and long-suffering, forbears to punish
those that offend; waiting to be gracious, and willing
not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should re-
turn and live; that he often susfers wicked men to go
on a long time, and even reserves damnation to the gene-
ral day of retribution ; that it is a clear evidence of God,
and of a suture state, that righteous men receive not
their reward or wicked men their punishment, till they
come into another world; and this will lead him to teach
his wise the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last
judgment; let him but repent for himself, he will lie aa
excellent preacher of repentance to his wise.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious
all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it; when being eager,
and hardly suffering me to make an end; I knew all
this, master, says he, and a great deal more ; but I han't
the impudence to talk thus to my wise; when God,
and my own conscience knows, and my wise will be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if
I had never heard of a God, or a suture state, or any
thing about it; and to talk of my repenting, alas'(and
Tol. II. F with
with that he setched a deep sigh; and I could see that
tears stood in his eyes) 'tis pall all that with me. Past
it! Atkins, said I, What dost thou mean by that? I
know well enough what I mean, Sir, says he; I mean
'tis too late; and that is too true.
I told my clergyman, word for word, what he said;
the poor zealous priest (I must call him so; for be his
Opin on what it will, he had certainly a most singular
affection for the good of other mens fouls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I fay,
this zealous affectionate man) could not refrain tears
also; but, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him
but one question, Is he easy, that it is too late, or is he
troubled, and wishes it were not so? I put the question
fairly to Atkins ; and he answered with a great deal ot
passion, How could any man be easy in a condition that
certainly must end in eternal destruction? That he was
far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he be-
lieved it would one time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said,
he believed he should, one time or other, cut his own
throat to put an end to the terror of it.
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern
!n his face, when I told him all this; but, turning quick
to me upon it, said, if that be his case, you may assure
him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance ,
but pray, fays he, explain this to him, That as no man
is laved But by Christ, and the merit of his passion, pro-
curing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for
any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able
to sin beydnd the power or reach of divine mercy ? Pray
tell him, There may be a time when provoked mercy
will no longer strive, and when God may resuse to hear ,
but that 'tis never too late for men to ask mercy; and
we that are Christ's servants are commanded to preach
mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all
those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never too late to
j-epent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
timeliness; but it seemed as if he turned off the dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
Have seme talk with his wise; so he went out awhile
and
And we walked to the rest. I perceived they were all stu-
pidly ignorant, as t« matters of religion ; much as I was
when I went rambling away from my sather; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what
had been said, and all of them seriously promised, that*
they would talk with their wives about it, and to do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but,
at last, shaking his head, We that are Christ's servants,
fays he, can go no surther than to exhort and instruct \
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and pre-
mise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to
accept their good words; but, believe me, Sir, said he,
whatever you may have known of the lise of that man
you call William Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere
convert among them; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent; I won't despair of the rest; but that man is per-
sectly struck with the sense of his past lise; and I doubt
not, but when he comes to talk of religion to his wise,
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to
teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching our-
selves. I knew a man, added he, who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and profligate, to the last degree, in his lise,
made a thorough reformation in himself, and being
to convert a Jew; and if that poor Atkins begins but
once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wise, my lise
for it, he talks himself into a thorough convert, makes
himself a penitent; and who knows what may follow?
Upen this discourse however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married- the other three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in; after
this my clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone ; and, turning to me, says
he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here, and look: I dare say we shall sind this poor
man somewhere or other, talking seriously with his
wise, and teaching her already something of religion.
1 began to be of the same mind; so we went out toge-
ther; and I carried him a way which none knew but
F 4 myself,
myself, an 1 where the trees were so thick set, as that
it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves,
and sar harder to see in, than to see out; when coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and his tawny-
savage wise, sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse; 1 stopped short, till my clergyman
came up to me; and then, having shewed him where
they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a
good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens ; then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to
her,'to the woods, to the trees. Now, says my clergy-
man, you see my » ords are made good ; the man preaches
to her; mark him, now he is telling her that our God has
made him, and her, and tlie heavens, the earth, the
sea, the woods, the trees, &c, 1 believe he is, said I:
immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his
seet, sall down upon his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we suppose he said something, but we could not
hear him: it was too sar for that: he did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes andsits down again
by his wise, and talks to her again. We perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether she said any-
thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor sellow
was upon his knees, I could see the tears run plentisully
down my clergyman's cheeks: and I could hardly forbear-
myself; but it was a great asfliction to us both, that we
were not near enough to hear any thing that passed be-
tween them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for sear
of disturbing them: so we reiolved to see an end of
this peace of still conv ersation ; and it spoke loud enough
to us, without the help of voice: he lat down again, as
I have sa'd, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
her: and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately: another time we law him take out his
handkerchief, and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a kind of traniport very unutual: and after
several of hele things, we saw him on a ludden jump up
again, an.i knd i.e. his hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so
about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
St. Paul, St. Paul ! behold he prayeth : I was afraid At-
kins would hear him: therefore I intreated him to with-
hold himself a while, that we might see an end of the
scene, which to me, I must consess, was the moil affect-
ing, and yet the most agreeable, that ever I saw in m/
lise. Well, he strove with himself, and contained him-
self for a while, but was in such raptures of joy to think
that the poor heathen woman was become a christian,
that he was not able to contain himself: he wept several
times: then throwing up his hands, and crossing his
breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by way
of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of
the success of our endeavours: some he spoke softly,
and I could not well hear; others audibly, some in La-
tin, seme in French: then two or three times the tears
of joy would interrupt him, that he could not ipeak at
all. But I begged that he would compose himself, and
'let us more narro.vly and sully observe what was before
u , which he did for a time, and the scene was net ended
there yet; for, after the poor man and his wise were
risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talk-
ing still eagerly to her; and we observed by her mo-
tion that she was greatly affected with what he said, by
her frequent lifting up her hand , laying her hand to
her breast, and such other postures, as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention: this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away too: so that we could see no more of them in that
situation. ,
1 took this interval to talk with my clergyman: and
sirst, 1 told him, I was glad to see the particulars we
had both been witnesses to : that though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in- the man and
his wise, however ignorant they both might be: and I
hoped such a beginning would have yet a more happy
end: and who Knows, said I, but these two may in
time, by instruction and example- work upon some
of the others? Some of them! said he, turning quick
ADVENTURES OF
upon me, ay, upon all of them; depen dupon it, is thoser
two savages (for he has been but little better, as you
relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never
1 eave till they work upon all the rest: for true religion is
naturally communicative; and he that is once made a
Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can
help it. I owned it was a most christian principle to
think so, and a testimony of a true zeal, as well as a
generous heart in him. But, my friend, said I, will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell
how to object the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern, which you shew for the turning the poor people
from their paganism to the christian religion. But how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your
account, out of the pale of the catholic church; without
which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteem these but heretics still; and for no other reasons
as effectually lost as the pagans themselves?
To this he answered with abundance of candour, and
christian charity, thus: Sir, I am a catholic of the
Roman church, and a priest of the order of St. Bene-
dict, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman
faith: but yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circum-
stances, and your civilities: I say, nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, with-
out some charity: I dare not say, though I know it-is
our opinion in general: yet, I dare not fay, that you
cannot be saved, will by no mean, limit the mercy of
Christ, so sar as to think that he cannot receive you into,
the bosom of his church, in a manner, to us, impar-
ceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know:
and I hope you have t ie fane charity for us: I pray
daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever methods he, who is all wife, is pleated to
direct. In the mean time, sure, you will allow it to
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish sar between
a protestant and a pagan: between one that calls on
Jesus Christ, though in away which I do not think is
according to the true saith: and a savage, a barbarian,
that knows no God, no Christ, no redeemer at all:
and if you are not within the pale of the catholic
church.
117
church, we hope you are nearer being restored to'it, than
those that know nothing at all of God, or his church:
I rejoice therefore, when I see this poor man, who, yOu
say, has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not fully enlightened; believing that God, from
whom every such work proceeds, will tensibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the surther knowledge of the
truth in his own time , and if God shall influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his
wise, I can rrjver believe that he shall be cast away him-
self and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any ara brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they
may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the
catholic church, just at the time when I may desire it;
leaving it to the goodness of Christ to persect his work:
in his own time, and his own way! Certainly I would
rejoice, if ali the savages in America were brought, like
this poor woman, to pray to God, though they were to
be all protestants at sirst, rather than they should continue
pagans and heathens; sirmly believing that he wiio had
bestowed that sirst light upon them, would sarther illu-
minate them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and
bring them into the pale os his church when he should
see good.
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
truly pious papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
power of his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might
ba all catholic christians whatever church, or particular
prosession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and, in a word, as he thought that the like charity would
make us all catholics, so I told him, I believed, had all
the members cf his church the like moderation they
would soon be all protestants: and there we left that
part, for we never disputed at all.
However, I talked to him another way, and, taking
him by the hand, my friend, said I, I wish all the
clergy of the Roman church were blessed with such mo-
deration, and an equal share of your charity; I am en-
tirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
F 4. shoul
should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would
nut you into the inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might do
in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the
better christians for that severity; for I am sure there is
no heresy in too much charity.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wise were gone, our
business there was over; so we went back our own
way ; and when we came back, we found them waiting
to be called in. Observing this, I aiked my clergyman
if we should discover to him that we had seen him un-
der the bush, or no; and it was his opinion we should
not; but that we should talk to him sirst, and hear what
he would say to us; so we called him in alone, no-
body being in the place but ourselves; and I begun with
him thus:
'Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you?
What was your father?
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my
father was a clergyman.
R. C. What education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir ; but I de-
spised all education, instruction, or correction, like a
beast as I was.
R. C. Itistrue, Solomon fay?, He that despiseth re-
proof is brutish.
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered
my father; for God's fake, Sir, talk no more about
that, Sir ; I murdered my poor father.
Priest. Ha1! a murderer !*
* Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it) and looked pale: It seems
he believed that Will had really killed his own
father.
R. C. No.no, Sir, I do not understand him so; Will
Atkins explain yourself; you did not kill your father,
did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No, Sir; I did not cut his throat ; but I cut
the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days;
J broke his heart by the most ungratesul unnatural re-
turn
turn for the most tender affectionate treatment that ever
father gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father, to
extort this consession-; I pray God give you repentance
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other sins;
but I asked you, because I see that though you have ret
much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are,
in things that are good; that you have known more of
religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the consession
hat I make about my father, conscience does; r.nd
whenever we come to look back upon our lives, ths
sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the first
that touch us; the wounds they make lie deepest; ar.d
the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind of
all the sins we can commit.
R. C. You talk too seelingly and sensible for me At-
kins ; I cannot bear it. ,
W. A. You bear it, master; I dare fay you knew
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I
may say, every tree in this island is witness to the an-
guish of my soul, for my ingratitude, and base usage of
a good tender father; a father much like your s, by
your description , and I murdered my father as well as
you, Will Atkins; but think, for all that, my repen-
tance is short ofyour'a too* by a great deal.
* I would have said more, if I could have restrained
my passions ; but I thought this poor man's repen-
tance was so much sincerer than mine, that I was
going to leave off the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that
instead of my going about to teach and instruct
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to
me, in a most surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me, Did I not say,
Sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach
to us all! I tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a
true pemtent, here will be no need of me ; he will make
5 F christian?
christian*- of all in theisland. But, having a little com*
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.
But, Will, said I, How comes the sense of this matter
to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very foul; I have been talking-
about God and religion to my wise, in order, as you
directed me, to make a christian of her; and she has
preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget
while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wise has preached to
you, but when you were moving religious arguments
to her, conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as it is not to be
resisted.
R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wise, for I know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account
©f it, I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue
to express it, but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can
tell you of it that I resolve to amend and reform my
lise.'
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin,
Will ? For this has been an extraordinary case that is
certain, she has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
W. A. Why, I sirst told her the nature of our laws
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men
and women were obliged to enter into such compact ,
as it was neither in the power of one or other to break,
that otherwise order and. justice could not be maintained,
and men would run from their wives, and abandon their
children, mix consusedly with one another, and neither
families, be kept entire, or inheritances be settled by a
legal descent.
R. C. You talklikea civilian, Will. Could ycu make
her understand what you meant by inheritance and sami-
lies? They know no such thing among the savages, but
marry any how, without any regard to relation, con-
sanguinity, or samily, brother and sister, nay, as I
have
have been told, even the sather and daughter, and the
son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are misinformed, and my
wise assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it,
perhaps, for any surther relations, the may not be so
exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch one
another in the near relation you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was
much better than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked
her, if she would be married to me our way? She
asked me, What way that was? I told her marriage
w as appointed of God; and here we had a strange talk
together, indeed, as ever man and wise had, I believe.
N. B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his
wise, as I took it down in writing, just after he told
it me, was as follows:
Wise. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God
in your country?
W. A. Yes, my dear, God is inevery country.
Wise. No your God in my country ; my country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unsit to shew you who Gdd
is; God is in heaven, and make the heaven and the
earth, the sea, and all that in them is.
Wise. No makee de earth; no you' God makee de
earth ; no make my country*.
* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wise. No laugh: Why laugh me? This no ting to
laughs.
t He was justly reproved by his wise; for she was
more serious than he at sirst.
W. A. That's true indeed , I will not laugh any more,
my dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God ma£e all?
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world,
and you, and me, and all things; for he is the only
F 6 true'
ADVENTU RES OF
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever in
heaven.
Wise. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
with any thing before, but have lived without God in
the world myself.
Wise. What have you de great God in you de country,
you no, know him? No say O to him? No good ting
for him ? That no impossible!
W. A. It is too true though for all that: we live as
if there was no God in heaven, or that he had no power
on earth.
Wise. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee
yeu good live?
W. A. It is all our own sault?
Wise. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will; why
he no makee kill when you no serve him? No say O to
him? No be good mans?
W. A. Thatis true; he might strike me dead, and I
ought to expect it; for I have been a wicked wretch,
that is true ; but God is mercisul, and does not deal with
us as we deserve.
Wise. But then, do not you tell God tankee for that
too?
W. A. No,.indeed: I have not thanked God for his
mercy, any more than I have seared God for his
power.
Wife. Then you God no God; me no think, believe
he be such one, great much power, strong; no makee
kill you, though you makee him mitch angry.
W. A. What! will my wicked lise hinder you from
believing in God ! What a dreadsul creature am I! And
what a sad truth is it that the horrid lives of christians
hinders the conversion of heathens.
Wise. How me tink you have great much God * up
there, and yet no do well, no do good ting i Can he tell?
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to heaven.
W. A.
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things: he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wise. What! he no hear you swear, curse, speak
the great damn?
W.* A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wise. Where be then the muchee great power
strong?
W. A. He is mercisul : that is all we can say for it;
and this proves him to be the true God: he is God, and
not man; and therefore we are not consumed*.
»Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with horror,
to think how he could tell his wise so clearly, that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts
'of the heart, and all that we do: and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done.
Wise. Mercisul! what you call dat?
W.A. He is our sather and maker; and he pitie*
and spares us.
Wise. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked: then he no good himself, or no
great able.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear: he is insinitely good,
and insinitely great, and able to punish too: and some-
times, to shew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly his
anger to destroy sinners, and make examples: many are
_cut off in their sins.
Wise. But no makee kill you yet: then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee you kill, so you make de bar-
gain with him, you do bad ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry at other mans?
W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions
upon his goodness: and he would be insinitely just, if he
destroyed me, as he has done other men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead?
What you say to him for that? You no tell him tankee
for a(l that too?
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungratesul dog, that
is true.
Wise.
Wise. Why he no makee you much goctd better? You
say lie makee you.
W. A. He'made me as he made all the world; 'tis
I have deformed myself, and abused his goodness, and
have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wise. I wish you makee Gwd know me: I no makee
him angry: I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to
heara poor untaught creature desire to be'taught ro
know God: and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could not say one word to her about God, but
what the reproach of his own carriage would make
most irrational to her believe: nay, that already
ftie could not believe in God, because he that was so
wicked was not destroyed.
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach
you to kn6w God, not God to know you: for he knows
you already, and every thought in your hea>t.
Wise. Why then he know what I say to you now:
he know me wish to know him: how shall me know who
makee me?
W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee: I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him:
aiid to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that, he said, he selldownon his knees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her
mind with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the
unworthy instrument of instructing her in the prin-
ciples of religion; after which he sat down by her
again; and their dialogue went on.
N. B. This was the time when we saw him kneel down
and lift up his hands.
Wise.
Wise. What you put down the knee for? What you
hold On the hand for? What you say ? Who you speak
to! What is that?
W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my
submission to him that made me: I said O to him, as
you call it, and as you say, your old men do to their
idol Benamuckee; that is, I pray to him.
Wise. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know him, and be accepted
by him.
Wise. Can he do that too?
W. A, Yes, he can; he can do all things.
Wise. But he no hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him : and promised
to hear us.
Wise. Bid you pray? When he bid you ? How he bid
you? What you hear hirn speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak: but he has
revealed himself many ways to us.
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand
that God had revealed himself to us by his word:
and what his word was: but at last he told it her
thus.
W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former
days, even from heaven, by plain words: and God
has inspired good men, by.his spirit: and they have
written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. Me no understand that: where is book?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this
book; but, I hope, I shall, one time or other, get it
for you to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection: but with
inexpressible grief, that he had not a bible.
Wise. But how you makee me know, that God teachee
them to write that book?
W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God.
Wise. What rule, what way you know?
W. A.
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
but what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
make us persectly good, as well as persectly happy;
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid all
that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its conse-
quences.
Wise. That me would understand, that me fain see:
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing,
he teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing, he
makee all thing, he give all thing; he hear me when I
fay O to him, as you go to do just now: he makee me
good, if I wish be good; he spare me, no makee kill
me, when I no be good; all this you fay he do; yes,
he be great God; me take, think, believe, him be
great God; me fay O to him too, with you, my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer^
but, raising her up, made her kneel by him: and he
prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge
of himself, b) his spirit: and that by some good provi-
dence, if possible, she might some time or other come
to have a bible, that she might read the word os God,
and be taught by him to know him.
This was the time that we saw him list her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after
this, too long to set down here:-and particularly she
made him promise, that since he consessed his owe
lise had been a wicked abominable course of provoca-
tion against God, that he would reform it, and not make
God angry any more, lest he should make him dead,
as she called it, and then-she should be left alone, and
never be taught to know this God better, and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men
should be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us
both, but particularly the young clergyman: he was
indeed wondersully surprised with it: but under the
greatest affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to
her : that he could not speaifc English to make her under-
'—..nd him : and as she spoke but very broken English
»J7
he could not understand her. However, he turned
himself tome, and told me, that he believed there-mull
be more to do with this woman than to marry her: I
did not understand him at sirst, but at length he explain-
ed himself: viz. That she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no: hold, sir, said he,
though I would have her baptised by all means, yet I
must observe, that Will Atkins, her husband, has, in-
deed, brought her :n a wondersul manner to be willing
to embrace a religious lise: and has given herjust ideas
of the being of aGcd, of his power, justice, and mercy:
yet 1 desire to know of him, if he has said any thing
to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners:
of the nature of faith in him, and the redemption by
him: of the holy spirit, the resurrection, the last judg-
ment, and a suture state.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: but the
poor fijllow sell immediately into tears, and told us,
he had said something to her of all those things, but
that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly
lise, that he trembled at the apprehensions, that her
knowledge of him should lessen the attention she should
give to tliose things, and make her rather contemn reli-
gion, than receive it: but he was assured, he said, that
her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of
all those things, that if I would but discourse with her,
she would make it appear to my satissaction, that my la-
bour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I cal'ed her in, and placing myself as
interpreter between my religious priest and the woman,
I intreated him to begin with her: but sure such a ser-
mon was never preached by a popish priest in these
latter ages or the world: and, as I told him, I thought
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the since-
rity of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman Ca-
tholic: and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the
Roman bishops were, before the church of Rome assum-
ed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.
In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him,
not
ADVENTURES OF
not with- wonder and astonishment omly, as she did the
sirst notions of a God, but with joy and saith, with an
affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce
to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her
own request she was baptized.
When he wa3 preparing to baptize her, I entreated him
that he would perform that office with some caution,
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very
religion which we were instructing the ether in. He
told me, that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor pro-
per things for the office, I should see he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a Ro-
man Catholic myself, if I had not known it before : and
so he did, for saying only feme words over to himself in
Latai, which I could not understand, he poured a whole
dish sull of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing
in French very loud, 'Mary; which was the rfame her
husband desired me to give her, for I was her godsather,
I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son
and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could know any
thing by it, wluit religion ho was of: he gave the bene-
diction afterwards in Latin ; but either Will Atkins did
not know but it was French, or else did not take notice
of it at 'that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them ; and after
the marriage was ever, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him,
not only to persevere in that good disposition he was in,
but to support the convictions that were upon him, by
a resolution to reform his lise; told him, it was ia
vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes;
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the know-
ledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
caresul he did not dishonour the grace of God; and
that, if he did, he would see the Heathen a better Chris-
tian than himself; the savage converted, and theinitra-
ment cast away.
He said a grrat many good thing* to them both, and
then recommended them, in a few words, to God's
goodness
goodness gave them the benediction again, I repeating
every thing to them in English: And thus Qnded the
ceremony. 1 think it was the most pleasant agreeable
day to me that ever I passed in my whole lise.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts
hung continually upon the conversion of the 37 savages;
and sain he would have staid upon the island to have
undertaken it; but I convinced him, First, that his un-
dertaking was inpracticable in itself; and 2dly, that
perhaps, I could put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to his satissaction ; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affair of the island to a nar-
row compass, I was preparing to go on board the sliip,
when the young man, whom I had taken out of the
samished ship's company, came to me, and told me, he
understood I had a clergyman with me; and that I had
caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages,
whom they called wives; that he had a match too,
which he desired might be sinished before I went, be-
tween two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be
disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christian wo-
man on the island; so I began to persuade him not to do
any thing of that kind rafnly, or because he sound him-
self in this solitary circumstance: I represented, that he
had some considerable substance in world, and good
friends, as I understood by- himself, and by his maid
also; that the maid was not only poor, and a servant,
but was unequal to him, she being z5 or 27 years old;
and he not above 17 or 18, that he might, very pro-
bably, with my assistance, make a remove from this
wilderness, and come into his1 own country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to cne but he would
repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say
more, but he interrupted me, fmilihg, and told me,
with a great deal os modesty, that I mistook in my
guesses, that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts,
his present circumstances being melancholy and discon-
solate enough, and he was very glad to hear, that I had
thoughts of putting them in a way to see their own-
country
ADVENTURES OF
country again, and that nothing should have set hint
upon staying there, but that the voyage I was going was
so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him
quite out of the reach of all his friends, that he had
nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was, give
him a servant or two, and some sew necessaries, and
he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting the
good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would
redeem him, and hoped I would not be unmindsul of
him when I came to England, that he would give me
some letters to his friends in London, to let them know
how good I had been to him, and what part of the
world, and what circustances I had left him in: and
he promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and all the improvements he had made upon
it, let the value be what it would, should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because
he told me positively the match was not for himself.
I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived to
come sase to England, I would deliver his letters, and
do his business effectually, and that he might depend I.
would never forget the circumstances I left him in, but
still I was impatient to know who was the person to be
married: Upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all
Trades, and his maid Susan.
1 was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match, scr, indeed, I had thought it very suitable.
The character os thit man I have given already ; and
as for the maid, she wes a very honest, modest, sober,
and religious young woman, had a very good mare of
sense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very
handsomely, and to the purpose; always with decency
and good manners, and not backward to speak when
any thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak
when it was not her business ;very handy and house-
wisely in any thing that was before her: an excellent
manager, and sit indeed to have been governess to the
whole island ; she knew very well how to behave herself
to all kind of folks she had about her, and to better, if
&e had found any there.
The
The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them them the Tame day, and, as I was sather at the
altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion, for I appointed her and her husband a hand-
some large space of ground for their plantation, and,
indeed, this match, and the proposal the young gentle-
man made to me, to give him a small property in the
island, put me upon parcelling it out among them, that
they might not quarrel afterwards about theirsituation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will At-
kins, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave
managing sellow; persectly reformed, exceeding pious
and religious ; and, as sar as I may be allowed to speak
positively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true,
sincere penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every
one's satissaction, that they only desired one general
writing under my hand for the whole; which I caused
to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the bounds and situation of every man's planta-
tion, and testifying, that I gave them thereby, several-
ly, a right to the whole possession and inheritance of
the respective plantations of sarms, with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs; reserving all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation, after eleven years, if I or
any one from me, orin my name, came to demand it,
producing an attested copy of the same writing.
As to government and laws among them, I told
them, I was net capable of giving them better rules
than they were able to giv» themselves: only made
them promise me, to live in love and good neighbour-
hood with one another: And so I prepared to leave
them.
'One thing I must not omit: and that is, that being
now settled in a kind of common wealth among them-
selves, and living much bulinels in hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of
the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed : for,
excepting the_providing themselves foed, which they had
difficulty enough in lomeumes, i iey had no man-
ner os business or property to manage. I proposed there
fore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them
with Friday's sather and propose to th~m to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several samilies as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute Haves, for I would
not admit them to make them slaves by force, by any
means, because they had their liberty given by capitu-
lation, and, as it were articles of surrender, which they
ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheersully along with him , so we allotted them
land, and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several samilies we had settled , and thus my colony was
in a manner settled, as follows: the Spaniards possessed
my original habitation, which was the capital city, and.
extended their plantation all along the side of the brook,
which made the creek that I have so often described, as
sar as my bower, and as they increased their culture,
it went always eastward ; the English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward, and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a
.great addition of land to take in, if they found occasion,
so that they need not joitle one another for want of
room.
All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there,
only for their usual customary barbarities, they might
come and go ; is they disturbed nobody, nobody would
disturb them : and no doubt but they were often ashore,
and went away again: for I never heard that the plant-
ers were ever attacked and disturbed any more.
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to
my friend the clergyman, that the work of converting
the savages might, perhaps, be set on foot in his ab-
sence, to his satissaction: and I told l^jm, that now I
thought it was put in a sair way: for the savages being
thus divided among the Christians, if they would but
every one of them do their part with those which came
under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good
effect.
2 He
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their part; but how, says he, how shall we obtain that of
them? I told him, we would call them all together,
and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one
by one, which he thought best; so we divided it; he
to speak to the Spaniards who where all papists ; and I
to the English who were all protestants; and we recom-
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise,
that they would never make any distinction of papist
or protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ: and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have
any differences or disputes, one with another, about
religion. *
When I came to Will Atkin's house, (I may call it so,
for such a house, or such a'piece of basket-work, I be-
lieve was not standing in the world again !)I fay, when
I came thither, I found the young woman I have men-
tioned above, and Will Atkins's wise, were become
intimates, and this prudent, religious, young woman,
had persected the work Will Atkin's had begun : and
though it was not above four days after what I have
related, yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her, in all my observation, or conversation in the
world.
Itcame next into my mind, in the morning, before I
went to them, that among all the needsul things I had
to leave with them, I had not left a bible : in which I .
shewed myself less considering for them, than my good
friend the widow was for me, when she sent me the
cargo of i00I. from Lisbon, where she packed up three
bibles and a prayer-book. However., the good woman's
charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined,
for they were reser- ed for the comfort and instruction
of those that made much better use of them than I had
done.
I took one of the bibles in my pocket, and when
I came to William Atkins's tent or house, I found
the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wise, had
been discoursing of religion together; (for William At-
kins
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle for his aflistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the
present occasion, though she had one: and so had the
youth on board our ship, among the goods, which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so
many things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling
one story more of her and myself, which has something
in it very informing and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young wo-
man was reduced; how her mistress was starved to death
and did die, on board that unhappy ship we met at sea;
and how the whole (hip's company being reduced to the
last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
maid, were sirst hardly used, as to provisions; and, at
last, totally neglected and starved , that Is to say, brought
to the last extremity of hunger.
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extre-
mities they susfered, I asked her, if she could describe.,
by what she selt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and she
told her tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir, said she, we had for some days fared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now.,
at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, ex-
cept sugar, and a little wine, and a little water. The
first day after I had received no food at all, I found my-
self, towards evening, sirst empty and sickish at my sto-
mach ; and nearer night, mightily inclined to yawning
and fleefy; I laid down on a couch, in the great cabin,
to sleep; and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay
down; after being about three hours awal.-e, it being
about sive o'clock in the morning, I found myself emp-
ty, and my stomach sickish again, and laid down again;
but could not sleep at all, being very saint and ill; and
thus I continued all the second day, with a strange va-
riety, sirst hungry, then sick again, with Teachings to
vomit; the second night, being obliged to go to bed
againi without any food more than a draught of sair
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barba-
does, and that the market was mightily stocked with
provisions;
»47
provisions; that I bought some for my mistress, an4
went and dined very heartily.
I thought my stomach was full after this, as it would
have been after, or at, a good dinner; but when I wak-
ed, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to sind myself
in the extremity of famine : the last glass of wine we had;
I drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being no
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise
disagreable sumes from the stomach into the head; and I
lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
for some time.
The third day in the morning, aftera night of strange
and consused inconsistant dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, I awaked, ravenous and surious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned, and
conquered it, I fay, I question whether, if I had been a.
mother, and had a little child with me, its lise would
have been sase, or no.
This lasted about three hours; during which time
I was twice raging mad, as any creature in Bedlam, as
my young master told me, and as he can now insorm
you.
In one of these sits of lunacy, or distraction, whether
by the motion of the ship, or some slip of my foot, I
know not; I sell down, and struck my face against the
corner of a pallet bed, in which my mistress lay; and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose ; and
the cabin boy bringing me a little bason, I fat down, and
bled into it a great deal; and as the blood ran from me,
I came to myself: and the violence of the flame, or the
sever I was in, abated, and so did the ravenous part of
the hunger.
Then I grew sick, and reached to vomit, but could
not; for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up; after
I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believ-
ed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, and
then had a most dreadsul pain in my stomach, not to be
for food; and, towards night, it went off with a ki- 1
of earnest wishing or longing for food; som
described , not like the cholic, but

ADVENTVRIS OF
something like, as 1 suppose, the longing of a woman
with child. I took another draught of water, with su-
gar in it, but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought
it all up again ; then I took a draught of water, with-
out sugar, and that stayed with me; and laid me Jown
upon the bed, praying most heartily, that it would please
God to take me away ; and composing my mind in hopes
of it, I flumbered awhile; and then waking, thought my
self dying, being light with vapours from an empty sto-
mach, 1 recommended rev soul to God, and earnestly
wished that somebody would throw me into the sea.
All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought expiring ; but bore it with much more patience
than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had to her
child, my young master, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved
his lise.
Towards the morning, I slept again ; and sirst, when I
after that, had a second sit of violent hunger, so that I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadsul condition: had
ray mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am
certain, I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as
much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh
of any creature appointed for food; and once, or twice,
I was going to bite my own arm. At last j I saw the
bason, in which was the blood 1 had bled at my nose
the day before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such
haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered
nobody had taken it before, and afraid it should be
taken from me now.
Though after it was down, the thoughts of it silled
me with horror, ye it checked the sit of hunger; and
1 drank a draught of fair water, and was composed and
refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth
day, and thus I held it till towards night, when, within
the compass of three hours, I had all these several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another; viz. sick,
sleepy, eagerly, hungry, pain in the stomack, then ra-
"ious again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying,
i-.ivenous again, and so every quarter of an hour;
y strength wasted exceedingly. At night I laid
me
awaked, I sell into a violent

Hie- down, having, no comfort, but in the hope that I
should die before morning.
All this night I had no fleep, but the hunger was now
turned into disease; and I had a terrible cholic and
griping; wind, instead of food, having found its way
into the bowels; and in this condition I lay till morn-
ing, when I was surprised a little with the cries and la-
mentations of my young master, who called out to me,
that his mother was dead. I listed myself up a little,
- for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not
dead, though she was able to give very little signs of lise.
I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want
of some sustenance, that I cannot describe them , with
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite,- that no-
thing but the- tortures of death can imitate: and this
condition I was in, when I heard the seaman above cry
out, A sail, a sail, and halloo and jump about as if they
were distracted.
I was notable to get off from the bed, and my mis-
tress much less; and my master was so sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; so we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that oc-
casioned such a tombustion; nor had we any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for two days, they having
told us they had not a mouthsul of any thing to eat in
the ship ; and they told us afterwards, they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadsul condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our lives: and how you found us,
Sir, you know as well as I, and better too.
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct ac-
count of starving to death, as I consess, I never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true^account, because the
youth gave me an account os a good part of it; though
I must own, not so distinct, and so seelingly, as his
maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his mother
sed him at the price of her own lise: but the poor-
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman
too, she might struggle harder with it: I say, the poor
maid might be supposed to seel the extremity something
G 3 sooner
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bits something longer than she parted with any to
relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here relat-
ed, if our ship, or some other, had not so providenti-
ally met them, a sew days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their case stood, would have
lerved them but a little while, they being 500 leagues
from any land: or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened; but this is by
tiie way. I return to my disposition of things among
the people.
And sirst, it is to be observed here, that, for many
reasons, I did not think sit to let them know any thing
of the stoop I had framed, and which I thought of setting
up among them : for I found, at least at my sirst coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and lest it among them, they
would, upon very light disgust, have separated, and
gone away from one another; or perhaps, have turned
pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead
os a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intend-
ed it to be; nor did 1 leave the two pieces of brass can-
non that I had on board, or the two quarter deck guns,
that my nephew took extraordinary, for the same rea-
son: 1 thought they had enough to qualify them for a
desensive war against any that should invadelhem; but
I was not to set them up for an offensive war, or to en-
courage them to go abroad to attack others, which in
theend,would only bring ruin and destruction upon them-
selves and all their undertakings; I reserved the stoop,
therefore, and the guns, for their service another way,
as I shall observe in its place.
I have now done with the island: I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again the 5 th day of May, hav-
ing been sive and twenty days among them; and, as
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came
to remove them, I promised to send some surther relief
from the Brasils, if I could possibly sind an opportunity:
and particularly, I promised to send them some cattle:
such as sheep, hogs, and cows: for, as to the two
cows,
tows and calves, which I brought from England, we had
been obliged, by the length cf our voyage, to kill them
at sea, for want of hay to seed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of sive guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints,
in the Brasils, in about 22 days: meeting nothing re-
markable in our passage, but this, that about three days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong totheN.N. E. running, as it were, into a bay
or gulph, on the land side, we were driven something
out of our course ; and once or twice our men cried, land
to the westward: but whether it was the continent or
islands, we could not tell by any means.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth,
and the weather calm, wesaw the sea, as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very black,
not being able to discover what it was: but, after some
time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little
way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out,
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant
by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the sel-
low a fool, or some such word: Nay, Sir, says he,
don't be angry, for it is an army, and a fleet too: for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, and they arc coming towards us too,
apace, and full of men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew the captain: for he had heard such terrible sto-
ries of them in the island, and having never been in
those seas before, that he could not tell what to think of
it, but said two or three times, we shall all be devour-
ed. I must consess, considering we were becalmed, and
the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the
worse: however, I bade him not be afraid, but bring
the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as so
know that we must engage them.
The^weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us . sol gave orderp to come to an anchor,and
surl all our fails. As for the savages, I told them, they
had nothing to sear from them but sire: and therefore
they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one
close by the head, and the other, by the stern, and rr
G4
them both well, and wait the issue in that posture i
this I did,'that the men in the boats might be ready »
with sheet and buckets, to put out any sire there sa-
vages might endeavour to six upon the outside of the
ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little
while they came up with us, but never was such a hor-
rid sight seen by Christians: my mate was much mis-
taken in his calculation of their number, I mean of a
thousand canoes; the most we could make of them
when they came up, being about i26 ; and a great many
of them too; for some of them had i6 or i7 men in-
them, some more, and the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which
they had, doubtless, never seen before; nor could they,
at sirst, as we afterwards understood, know what to make
of us. They came boldly up however, very near to us,
and seemed to go about to row round us: but we called to
our men in-the boats, not to let them come too near them.
. This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it: for sive or six of their
large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back;
which they understood very well, and went back i but
at their retreat about 500 arrows came on board us
from those boats; and one of our men in the long boat
was very much wounded.
However, I called to them not to sire by any means;
but we handed down some deal boards into the boat,
and the carpenter presently set up a kind of a sence-,
like waste boards,- to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should moot again. -
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a
body astern of us, and pretty near, so near that we could
easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design. I easily found they were some of my old
friends, the fame sort of savages that 1 had been- used
to engage with; and in a little time more they rowed
somewhat farther out to sea, till they came directly
i—---iside with us, and then rowed down strait upon us,
ame so near, that they could hear us speak;
upoa
k
slpon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns
ready; but, being so near as to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant;
which accordingly he did: whether they understood
'him or not,-that I knew not; but, as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost,
or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from us; and,
stooping down, shewed us their naked backsides; just
as 'f, in English, (saving your presence) they had bid us
kiss——; whether this was a desiance or challenge,
we know not; or whether it was done in mere con-
tempt, or a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday
cried out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily
for him (poor sellow) they let fly about 3000s their ar-
rows ; and to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor sel-
low was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky marksmen
they were. ^
I was so emaged with the loss of my old servant, the j
companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I'
immediately ordered sive guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great; and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before to be
siire.
They were not above half a cable's length off when
we sired ; and our gunners took their aim so well that
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had rea-
son to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of-turning tip their bare backsides
to us gave us no great offence ; neither did I know for
certain whether that, which would pass for the.greatest
contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in return, I had only resolved to have
sired four or sive guns with powder only, which I knew
would fright them susficiently : but when they shot at us
directly with all the sury they were capable of, and
especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so;
entirely lovedand valued, and who, indied, so well de-
served it; I not oBly had been justisied before God and
G 5 msn
man, but would have been very glad, if I could to have
overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of
them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many
we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such a fright
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude:
there Were i3 or i4 of their canoes split, and overset,
in all; and the men all set a swimming; the rest,
frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they
Could, taking but little care to save those whose boats
were split or spoiled with our mot: so I suppose that
•here were many of themlost ; and our men took up one
poor sellow swimming for his lise, above an hour after
they were all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many: but, in short, we never knew any
thing how it went with them : for they fled so fast, that,
in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above
three or four straggling canoes ; nor did we ever see the
rest any more: for a breeze of wind springing up the
same evening, we weighed and set sail for the Brasils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so
sullen, that he would neither eat or speak: and we all
fancied he would starve himself to death : but I took a
way to cure him: for I made them take him, and turn
him into the long boat, and make him believe they would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do,
but they really did throw him into sea, and came away
from him: and then he followed them, for he swam
like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, tho' they
knew not one word of what he said. However, at last
they took him in again, and then he began to be more
tractable : nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again: but I was the most
disconsolate creatture alive, for want of my man Friday,
and would have been very glad to have gone back to
the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence
for my occasion, but it could not be; so we went on:
we had one prisoner, as I have said ; and it was a long
while before we could make him understand any thing;
but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he
began
began to be a little tractable: afterwards we enquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said; for his speech was ib odd, all guttu-
rals, and spoken in the throat, in such an hollow and
odd manner, that we could never form a word from
him; and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well, if they were gagged, as other-
wise; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate; but form-
ed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune,
with an open throat: he told us however, some time
after, when we had taught him to speak a.
English, little that they were going, with their kings,
to sight a great battle. When he said kings, we asked
him how many kings? He said, there were sive na-
tion, (we could not make him understand the plural S)
and that- they all joined to go against two nation. We
asked him, What made them come up to us i He said,
To makee te great wonder look: where it is Wf be ob-
served, that all those natives,';as also those of Africa,
when they learn English, they Jiways add two E's at
the end of the words where we use one, and place the
accent upon the last of them; as makee, takee, and
the like; and we could not break them of it; nay, I
could hardly make Friday leave it osf, though at last he
did.
And now I name the poor sellow once more, I
must take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all decency and solemnity possi»
ble, by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to sire eleven guns for
him: and so ended the lise of the most gratesul, saith-
sul, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man
had.
We now went away with a sair wind for Brasil,
and, and in about twelve days time, we made land in the
latitude of sive degrees south of the line, being the
north eastermost land of all that part of America. We
kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore, four days,
when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
G 6 place
place of my deliverance, from whence came1 botH my
good and evil sate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less busi-
ness than I had ; and yet it was with great difficulty tha,t
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence orv
shore : not my partner himself, who was alive, and made
a great sigure among them; not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation in the
island, could obtain me that savour: but my partner,
remembering that I had given sive hundred moidores to
the prior of the monastry of the Augustines, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the mo-
nastry, and obliged the prior chat then was, to go to the
governor, and beg leave for me presently, with the cap-
tain, and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on
shore, and no more ; and this upon condition absolutely
capitulated for, that we should not osfer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away with-
out licence. t.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore
three bales of English goods, such as sine broad cloths,
stusfs, and some linen, whkh I had bought for a present
to my partner.
He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though
(like me) he came from little at sirst; and' though he
knew not that I had the kast design of giving him any
thing,- he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moldores, in-
cluding.fome tobacco, and three or four sine medals
in gold. But I was even with him in my present,
which, as I have skid, consisted of sine broad cloth,
English stuffs, lace and sind Hollands. Also I deli-
vered him about the value of 100I. sterling, in the
same goods, sor other uses; and I obliged him to set
up the stoop which I had brought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in or-
der to send the refreshments I intended to my planta-
tion.
Accordingly he pot hands, and sinished the sloop in
a very sew days, for.she was already framed, and I gave
the' master of her such instructions as he could not mis
the,
the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an account from
my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the
small cargo I had sent them; and one of our seamen,
that had been on shore with me there, osfered to go with
the floop, and settle there, upon my letter to the go*
vernor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity of
land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes>
and tools for his planting work, which, he said, he un-
derstood, having been an old planter in Maryland, and a
buccaneerinto the bargain.
I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired;
and, as. an addition, I gave him the sayage which we
had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered
the governor Spaniard to grve him his share of every
thing he wanted with the rest.
When we came to sit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest sellow, a Bra-
sil planter of his acquaintance, who had sallen into the
displeasure of the church ; I know not what the mat-
ter is with him, says he; but, on my conscience, I
think he is an heretic in his heart; and he has been
obliged to conceal himself for sear of the inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to.the island, and allot them
a plantation, he would give them a small stock tol be-
gin with; for the officers of the inquisition had seized
all his effects and estate, and he b«l*nothing left but a
little household stuff, and two slaves; and, adds he,
though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
sall into their hands, for he will assuredly be burnt alive if
he does.
I granted thi1= presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wife
and daughters, on board one ship, till the floop
put out to goto sea; and then (having put all their
goods on board the sloop some .time besore) we put'
them on board the floop, after she was got out of the
bay. , '• •
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was much alike rich
in tools, in preparations, for a farm; bTSt nothing to
begin}
begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials
for planting sugar canes, with some plants of canes;
which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood very
well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this floop, three milch
cows, and sive calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone-
horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go; and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but I remembered, that the poor
persecuted men had two daughters, and there were but
sive of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived sase, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were
now (with this addition) between sixty and seventy
people, besides little children; of which there were a
great many: I found letters at London from them, all
by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brasils by this stoop , of which I shall
take some notice in its place.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of
discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not
cooled by almost forty years misery and disappointments;
not satissied with prosperity beyond expectation; not
made cautions by affliction and distress beyond imita-
tion.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than
a man at sull liberty, #nd having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve
him. Had I taken a small vessel from England and
went directly to the island; had I loaded her; as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the planta-
tion, and for my people, took a patent from the govern-
ment here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, I miththave
obtained; had I carried over cannon and amniunition,
servants, and people to plant, and, taking possession of
the place, fortisied and strengthened it in the name of
England, and encreased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had 1 then settled myself there, ana sent the
ship back, loaded with good rice, as I might also have
done in six months time, and ordered my friends to
have sitted her out again for our supply; had I done
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense ; but I was possessed with a wan-
dering spiritsscorned all advantages, pleased myself with-
being the patron of these people I had placed there,
and doing for them in a kind of haughty majestic way,
like an bid patriarchal monarch ; providing for them, as
if I had been father of the whole family, as well as of the
plantation: but I never so much as pretended to plant in
the name of any government or nation, or to acknow-
ledge any prince, or to call my people subjects, to any one
nation more than another : nay, I never so much as gave
the place a name; but left it as I found it, belonging to
no man; and the people under no discipline or govern-
ment but my own ; who, though 1 had an influence over
them as father and benefactor, had no authority or power
to act or command one way or other, farther than vo-
luntary consent moved them to comply: yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough ; but
as I rambled from them, and came thither no more, the
last letters I had from any of them, were by my part-
ner's means, who afterwards sent another stoop to the
place; and who sent me word, though I had not the
letter till sive years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malecontent with their long stay
there ; that Will Atkins was dead; that sive of the Spa-
niards were/rome away; and that though they had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had some
skirmishes with them; that they begged of him to write *
to me, to think of the promise I had made to setch them
away, that they might see their own country again be-
fore they died.
''' But
But T was gone a wild goose chase indeed ; and they
who will have any more of me, must be content to
follow me through a new variety of follies, hard-
ships, and wild adventures; wherein the justice of
Providence may be duly observed, and we may see
how easily heaven can gorge us with our own desires,
make the strongest of our wishes to be our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things
which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be
allowed in.
Let no wise man slatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was able to chuse any parti-
cular station of lise for himself. Man is a short-sighted
creature, sees but a very little way before him; and as
his passions are none of his best friends, so hi/ particular
asfections are generally his worst counsellors.
I say this, with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth, to wander into the world; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this principle was preserved in me
for my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the.
circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give
you historically, and with its utmost variety qf particu-
lars. But the secret ends of Divine Providence, in thus
permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own
desires, are only to be understood of those who can listen
to the voice of Providence, and draw religions conse-
quences from God's justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, had I business, or no business, away I went:
it is no time now to enlarge any sarthei*upon the rea-
son or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to
the history, I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went
I shall only add here, that my honest and truly pidni
clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go to
Lisbon, he asked npe leave to go thither ; being still, as
he observed, bound never to sinish any voyage he be-
gan ; how happy had it been for me, if I had gone with
him.
But it was too late now : all things heaven appoints
are best; had I gone with him, 1 had never had so many
things to be thanksul for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the travels and adventures of Robinson
Crusoe;
Crusoe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brasils we made directly away over the At-
lantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable
good voyage, oar course generally south-east : now and
then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my dis-
asters at sea were at the end , my suture rubs and cros»
events were to befal me on shore ; ithat it might appear,
the land was as well prepared to be ourfcourage, as the
sea; when heaven, who directs the circumstences of
things, pleases to appoint it to be so.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and ITad a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after
she arrive;! at the Cape: only being limited to certain
number of days, for stay, by charter-party, at the
several ports she was to go to; this was none of my bu-
siness, neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew
the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things
between them as they thought sit.
We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was need-
ful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way
for the coast of Coromande; we were indeed insormed,
that a French man of war of sifty guns, and two large
merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies: and, as I
knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them; but they went their own way, and we
heard no more of them. ,
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyages, varia-
tions of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade-
winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as almost afl
the histories of long navigation are sull of, and which *
make the reading tiresome enough: and are persectly
unprositable to all that read, except only to those who
are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our pasting
from one to another. We touched sirst at the istand of
Madagascar : where,tho' the people are sierce and treach-
erous, and in particular, very well armed with lances and
bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we
we sared very well with them awhile; they treated os
very civilly; and for some trisles which we gave them,
such as knives, scissars, &c. they brought us u good sat
bullocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh; which
we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to sait for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here for some time, after we t
had surnished ourselves with provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every nook of the
world wherever I came, was forgoing on shore as osten
as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we
went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about
us, and stood gazing at us, at a distance: as we had tra-
ded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three bows out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a
mark in the country, not only of truce and friendship,
but, when it is accepted, the other side set up three
poles, or bows, also; which is a signal that they accept
the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the
truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they come past your three poles
or boughs toward you; so that you are persectly secure
within the three poles; and all the space between your
poles and theirs, is allowed like a market, for free con-
verse, traffick, and commerce. When you go thither,
you must not carry your weapons with you; and if they
come into that space, they stick up their javelins and
lances,all at the sirst poles, and come on unarmed; but
if any violence is osFered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore,
that a greater number of their people came down
than usual, but was all ver) friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satissied them with such toys as we had;
their women also brought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
»«d we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of
trees, and lay on the shore all that night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so
well satissied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat ly-
ing at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on shore; and getting some boughs of tree«
to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bot-
tom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of
the branches of the trees, all night.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our
men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, sot
God's fake, to bring the boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murdered ; at the fame
time I heard the siring of sive musquets, which was the
number of the guns they had, and that three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frighted
with guns as the savages were in America, where I had
to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter ; but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I
caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three susils we had on board, to land, and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the more : but our men
were in too much haste: for, being come to the shore,
they plunged into the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between
three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all
and only sive of them had susils with them: the rest, in-
deed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small use
to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being .very ill wounded : .and
that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on shore : for they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain to barri-
cade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two
or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction,
we had, by mere accident, or providence rather, in die
boat.
Aai
And yet, had it been day-light, they are, it seemsy
suth exact marksmen, that if they could have seen but
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us: we had, by the light of the moon, a little sighr
ef them,'as they stood pelting us from the shore withs
darts and arrows; and, having got ready our sire-arms,
we gave them a volley; and we could hear by the cries
of some of them, that we had wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore till
break of day, which we suppose was, that they might
see the better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to-
weigh our anchor, or set up our fail, because we muft
needs stand up in the • boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot;
we made signals of distress to the ship, which, though-
Ihe rode a league off, yet my nephew the captain,
hearing our siring, and, by glasses, perceiving the pos-
ture we lay in, and that we sired towards the shore,
pretty well understood us; and weighing anchor with
all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with
the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands
in her, to aflist us; but we called to them net to come
too near, telling them what condition We were in ; how-
ever, they stood in nearer to us: and one of the
men, taking the end of a tow-line in. his hand, and
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that
they could not persectly see him, swam on board us,-
and made the line fast to the boat; upon which we
flipt our little cable, and leaving our anchor behind,
they towed us out of the reach of the; arrows, we all
the. while lying close behfind the barricado we had
made
As soon as we-Were got from between the ship and
the so ore, that she could lay her side to the soore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside among
them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,
and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a ter-
rible havock among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we.
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray::
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in
. I those.
those parts, put me upon it; for he said, he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us, aster we
-had made a truce, if we had not done something to pro-
voke them to it; at length it came out, viz. that an
old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had
brought it within our poles, with a young woman with
her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while
the old woman, whether she was mother to the young
woman or no, they could not tell) was selling us
the milk, one of pur men ofsered some rudeness to the
wench that was with her : at which the old woman made
a great noise. However, the seaman would not quit
his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark: the old woman,
went away without her, and, as we suppose, made an
outcry among the people she came from: who, upon
notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four
.hours: and it was great odds but we had been all de-
stroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was
thrown at him, just at the beginning of the attack, as
Jxe sallied out of the tent we had made: the rest came
off free, all but the sellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mis-
tress, for we could not hear what became of him a
great while: we lay upon the shore two days aster,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him;
made our boat fail up more, and down-shore, several
leagues^ but in vain: so we were obliged to give him
over: and if he alone had sufsered for it, the loss had
been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without ventur-
ing on shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them: it was the third night after the action,
that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indian side : I was caresul to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again.: but I ought
indeed, to have been sure, that the men I went with,
had been under my command, before I engaged in a
thing Jo hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought
into it without my knowledge or desire.
Wo
We took twenty stout sellows with us as any in the
(hip, besides the supercargo and myself; and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the fame place where
the Indians stood drawn up the evening before; I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to
see if they had quitted the sield, and if they had left
any marks behind them, or of the mischief we had
done them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or
two of them, perhaps we might get out man again, by
way of exchangel
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain com-
manded one, and I the other: We neither could hear
nor see any body stir when we landed; so we marched
.up-, one body at a distance from the other, to the
sield of battle: At sirst we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by and by, our boatswain, that led the
sirst party, stumbled and sell over a dead body: This
made them halt there awhile, for knowing by the cir-
cumstances, that they were at the place where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
we' knew would be in less than an hour; and then
we would -easily discern the havock we had made a-
mong them: We told two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had
an- arm, and some a leg, shot off; and one his head:
those that were wounded, we supposed they had car*
ried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a sull discovery
of all we could come at the knowledge of, I was for
going on board again , but the boatswain and his party
often sent me word, that they were resolved to make a
visit to the Imdian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt; and desired me to go along with
them; and if they could sind them, as they still fancied
they should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a
good booty; and it might be, they might sind Thomas
JefFrys there ; that was the man's name we had lost.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing it
was
twas not a hazard sit for us to run, who had a ship,
.and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were re-
solved to go, and only asked me and my company to
go along with them, I positively resused it, and rose
up (for I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to
the boat; one or two of the men began to importune
.me to go; and when I still resused positively, began
to grumble, and say they were not under my command,
and they would go. Come, Jack, says one of the men,
.will you go with me? I will go for one. Jack said he
would ; and another followed, and then another ; and,
,in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difsiculty too, I persuaded to stay; so the Supercargo
.and 1, with one man, went back to the boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
.take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them wouhfcrun the sate .of Thomas
Jeffrys.
They told me, like seamen, the'yd warrant it they
.Would come off again; and they would take care, .&c.
So away they went. I entreated them to consider the
ship, and the voyage; that their lives were not their
:own; and that they were Entrusted with the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship
might be lost for the want of their help ; and that they
xould not answer it to God and man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well
have talked to the main-mast of the ship; they were
mad upon their journey; only they gave me good
words, and begged I would not be angry; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but
they would be back again in about an hour at sarthest;
for the Indian town, they said, was not above half a
mile off: though they found it above two miles before
they got to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
attempt was desperate, and such, as none tut madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their due,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
2' gallantly
gallantly armed, that is true: for they had every -man a
fusil or mufquet, a bayonet, and every man a pistol:
some of them had broad cutlaces, some of them hangers;
and the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes-: be-_
sides all which they toad among them i3 hand-grena-
does. Bolder sellows, and better provided, never went
about any wicked work in the world.
When they went out, their chief design was plunder , -
and they were in mighty hopes of sinding gold there:
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware of,
set them on sire with revenge, and made devils of them
all^ when they came to -the sew Indian houses, which
they thought had been .the town, which were not above
half a mile off, they were under -a great disappointment:
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses: and
where the town was, or how big, they knew .not i they
consulted therefore what to do, and were sometime be-
fore they could resolve : for if they scll upon these, they
must cut all their throats : and it was ten to one but some
of them might escape, it being in the night, though the
moon was up: and if one escaped, he would run away,
and raise all.the town-, so they should have a whole army
upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went
away, and left those untouched (for the people were
all asleep) they could not tell which way to look for the
town.
However, the last was the best advice.: so they re-
solved to .leave those houses, and.look for xhe town as
well as they could: they went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree: this they presently con-
cluded would be a good guide to them: for they said
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them,
or the town behind them: and if they untied her,
they should see which way she went: if she wentback,
they had nothing to say to her: but, if she went for-
ward, they had nothing to do but to follow her: so
they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags,
and the cow went on before them: in a word, the
cow led them directly to the town, which, as they
reported, consisted of above 200 h ouses, or huts: and
in some of these, they found sev eral families living
together. '. .
Here
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, as fleep
and a country that had never seen an enemy os that kind,
could make them: upon this they called another council,
to'consider what they had to do ; and in a word they re-
solved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three houses on sire in three parts of the town : and as
the men came out, and to sei2e them and bind them
if any resisted, they need not to be asked what to do then;
and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder; but
resolved to march silently sirst through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they might
venture upon it, or no.
They did do, and desperately resolved that they would
venture upon them; but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, that were a little
before the rest, called out aloud, and told them they had
found Tho. JefFrys , they all ran up to the place, and so
it was indeed, for there they found the poor sellow hang-
ed up naked by one arm, and his throat cut: there was
an Indian house just by the tree, where they found six-
teen or seventen of the principal Indians, who had been
concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three
of them wounded with our shot; and our men found
they were awake, and talking one to another in^hat
house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them as before, that they swore to one another, they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter; and to work they
went Immediately ; and yet not so madly as by the rage
and Jury they were in might be expected. Their sirst
care was to get something that would scon take sire;
but after a little search, they found that would be to no
purpose, for moll of the houses were low, and thatched
with flags or rushes, of which the country is sull; so
they presently made some wild sire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little powder in the palms of their hands ; and, in
:i quarter of an hour, they set the tov.n on sire in four
er sive places; and particularly that house where the
Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the sire began
to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to rush out
to save their lives; but met with their Fate in the at-
Vol. II. „ H tempt,
tf mpt, and especially at the door, where they drove
them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-ax; the house being large, and many in
it, he did not care to go in, but called for an hand-
grenado, and threw it among them, which, at sirst,
frighted them; but when it burst, made such havock
among them, that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house, were killed or hurt with the grenado,
except two or three more, who pressed to the door,
which the boatswain and two more kept with the bayo-
nets in the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all
who came that way. But there was another apartment
in the house, where the prince or king, or whatsoever
he was, and several others, were; and they kept in, till
the house, which was by this time all of a light slame,
sell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt
together.
I All this while they sired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people saster than they' could master
them; but the sire began to waken them sast enough,
and our sellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the sire grew so raging, all the houses be-
ing made of light combustible stuff, that they could
hastily bear the street between them; and their business
was to follow the sire for the surer execution: as sast as
the sire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our peo-
ple were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
still calling and hallooing to one another to remember
Tho. Jeffrys.
While this was doing, I must consess I was very un-
easy, and especially, when I saw the flames of the town,
which, it being night, seemed to be just by me.
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men
too, seeing such a sire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was, or what danger I was in; especi-
ally hearing the guns too: for by this time they began
to use their sire arms: a thousand thoughts oppressed
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what mould
become of us: and at last though he could ill spare any
more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might
be In, he takes another boat, and with thirteen men
and himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat, with no more than two men, for one had been
left to keep the boat; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the fame impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise, continued, and the
flame increased: I consess it was next to an impossibility
for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing what had happened, or their concern for the
sasety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he
would go and help his men, let what would come. I
argued with him, as I did before with the men, the sasety
of the ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest
of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him I
would go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at
a distance learn what was like to be the event, and
come back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk
to the rest before; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had left but ten men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help: he
had rather he said lose the ship, the voyage, and his
lise, and all; and so away went fie.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now, than I
was to persuade them not to go before; so, in short, the
captain ordered two men to row back the pinnance, and
sctch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-
boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after
us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of 65 men, whereof two
were lost in the sirst quarrel which brought this mischief
on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt
little of the ground we trod on; and being guided by
'the sire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were
surprising to- us before, the cries of the poor people
were now quite of another nature, and silled us with
horror. I must consess ! never was at the sacking of
a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I have
H 2 heard
ADVENTURES OF
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ireland,
and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read ot
Count Tilly sacking of the city of Magdeburg, and
cutting the throats of 22,000 of both sexes ; but 1 never
had an idea, of the thing itself before; nor is it possible
to describe it, or the horror which was upon our minds
at hearing it.
However we went on, and at length, came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it
for the sire. The sirst object we met with, was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the
house was consumed; and just before it, plain now
to be seen by the light of the sire, lay four men and
three women killed; and as we thought, one or two
more lay in the heap among the sire. In short, these
were such instances of rage altogether barbarous, and
of a sury something beyond what was human, that we
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or
if they were the authors of it, we thought that every
ore of them ought to be put to the worst of deaths: but
this was not all; we saw the sire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the sire went on, so that we were
in the utmost consusion. We advanced a little way sar-
ther; and beheld to our astonishment, three women
naked, crying in a most dreadsul manner, and flying as
if they had, indeed, had wings, and after them, sixteen
cr seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and conster-
nation, with three of our English butchers, (for I can
call them no hetier) in the rear; who, when they could
not overtake them, fired in among them, and one that
was killed by their shot sell down in our sight,; when
the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and
that we would murder them, as well as thole that pur-
sued them, they set up a most dreadsul shriek, especially
the women, and two of them sell down as if already
dead with the fright.
My very foul shr ik within me, and my blood ran
chill in my veins when/I saw this; and I believe, had
the three English sailors that pursued them come on,
I had made our men kill them all However, we took
some ways to let the pear flying creatures know that
O . '. • > - we
ive would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, arid kneeling down, with their hands lifted up,
made pitecus lamentations to us to save them which we
let them know we would do ; whereupon they kept all
together in a huddie, close behind us, for protection.
I left my men drawn up together, and charged them to
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our
people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and
what they intended to do; and, in a word, to com-
mand them off; assuring them, that if they stayed till
ROBINSON CRUSOB,
about theirears: I fay I left them, and went among
those flying people, taking only two of our men vvitn
me; and. there was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among
them ; some of them had their seet terribly burnt witli
trampling and running through the sire; others thetr
hands'burnt, one of the women had fallen down in the
lire, and was almost burnt to death before she could
get out again; two or three of the men had cuts in
their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing, and
another was shot through- the body, and died while I -
was there.
J would fain have learned what the occasion of all
this was, but I could not understand one word they said<
though by signs I perceived that some of them knew
not what was the occasion themselvc. 1 was so terri-
sied in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
cOmH not stay there, but went back to my o*n men;
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to
follow me, when in the very moment came sour of our
men, with the boatswain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre ;.
when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could
halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them
hear; so that they knew who we w«re, and came up to
us.
As soon as the boatswain .saw us, he set up a halloo
like a shout of triumph, for saving, as he thought,
more help come; and without bearing to hear me, cap-
tain, fays he, noble captain, I am glad you are come;
we have not half done yet; villains ! hell hound dogs!
H 3 I will
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we
will root out the very name of them from the earth ; and
thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would
not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a
little: Barbarous dog! said I, what are you doing?
I won't have one creature touched more, upon pain os
death. I charge you, upon your lise, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute.
Why, Sir, sa) s he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what
we have done, ccme hither; and with that he shewed
me the poor sellow hanging upon a tree with his throat
i lit.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another
lime should have been forward enough : but I thought
they had carried their rage too sar, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, 'Cursed be
their anger, for it was sierce; and' their wrath, for it
was cruel.' But I had now a new task upon my hands?
for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I
had done, I had as much to do to restrain them, as I
should have had with the others ; nay, my nephew him-
self sell in with them, and told me, in their hearing,
that he was only concerned for sear of the men being
overpowered; for, as to the people, he thought not one
ef them ought to live; for they had all glutted them-
selves with the murder of the poor man, and that they
ought to be used like murderers; upon these words,
away ran eight of my men with the boatswain and his
crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it
(juit out of my power to restrain them, came away pen-
i'.ve and sad: for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that sell
into their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the super-
cargo and two men, and with these I walked back to
the boats. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I
confess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, as it
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run
ver
»7S
over the country, there stood about forty men armed
with lances and bows at the little place where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood mentioned before; but by ac-
cident I missed the place, and came directly to the sea-
side; and by that time I got to the sea-side it was broad
day ; immediately I took the pinnace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might
happen.
1 observed that about the time I came to the boat-
side, the sire was pretty well out, and the noise abated;
but in about half an hour after I got on board, I heard
a volley of our mens sire arms, and saw a great smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men salling
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at the sew
houses cn the way; of whom they killed i6or 17, and
set all those houses on sire, but did not meddle with thus
women or children.
By that time the men got to the more again with the
-pinnance, oar men began to appear; ihcy came drop-
ping in, some and some ; not in two bodies, and in form,
as th< y went out, but all in heap1-, straggling here and
t iere in such a manner, that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all oss.
But the dread of them was upon the whole country;
the people were amazed, and surprised, and so frighted,
that I believe, an hundred of them would have fled at
the sight of but sive of our men. Nor in all this terriole
action was there a man who made any considerable de-
sence; they were so surprised between the terror of the
sire, and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that
they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they
fled one way, they were met by one party ; if back again,
b/another; so that they were every where knocked
down. Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt,
except one who strained his foot, and another had one
of his hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,
indeed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him in
particular ;. as well for his acting so out of his duty, as
commander of the ship, and having the charge of the
voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cool-
ing, the rage of his men, in so bloody and cruel an en-
Id 4 terprise
terprise: my nephew anVered me very respectsully:
bu: told me dial when be few the body os the poor sea-
man, whoa they hid m^de-cd in tech a cruel and
taroarou: caiioer, hewa, r.ot master ofhlmkrlf. neither
to'jld be govern nis pafior.; he ev.ned, he should~not
hjve done so: as he wa-ccrririir.der <»; the ship: bu?,
ai ne * j« a nun, and nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the re^ of the men, they were not sub-
ject to me at all: and they .-cnere it well enough: so they
took no notice os my d;sL :e.
'she next day we set uii: so we never heard any
more of it. Our n;en dhtered in the account of the
number they killed: some laid one thing, some mother:
b it, accortliugto the be.t of t.'.eir accounts put all to-
gether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 pecplJ,
woir.en, and children, and leit not a house Handing in
the tor/n.
As for the poor sellow Thomas Jestrys, as he was
quite dead, for his threat was so cut that his head was half
off, it would do him no service to bring him away: so
they left him where they found him, only took hint
down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
However j u.1 cur men thought this action to be, lwas
against them in it: and I always, afier that time, told
them God would blast the voyage: for I locked upon
the blood they shed that night to be murder in them:
for though it ii true that they killed Thomas JefFrys.
yet it was as true that JesFrys was the aggreflbr, had
broken the truce, and had violated or debauched a
young woman of theirs, who came to our camp innocent-
ly, and on the faith of their capitulation.
The boatswain desended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said, it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not; 'and that
the war was begun the night before b/ the natives
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of oar
men without any just provocation: so that, as we were
in a capacity to sight them, we might al(o be in a ca-
pacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extraordi-
nary manner: that though the poor man had taken li-
berty with a wench, he ought not to have been murder-
ej, and that in such a villainous manner : and that they 4id
ncthfng
-nothing but what was just, and that the laws of God al-
lowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to
have warned us against going on shore among heathem
and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind
wise, but at their own experience; and their experience
seems to be always of most use to them, when it is
dearest bought,
- We were now bound to the Gulph of Persia, and from
thence 10 the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Su-
rat but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the
bay of Bengal, where, if he missed of the business out-
ward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home'.
The sirst disaster that besel us was in the Gulph cf
Persia, where sive of our men, venturing on shore on
the Arabian side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the
Arabs, and either all killed, or carried away into sla-
very; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to
rescue them, and, had but just time to get osf their
boat; I began to upbraid them with the just retribution
of heaven in tips- case; but the boatswain very warmly
told me, he thought I went sarther in my censures than
I could shew any warrant for in scripture, and reserred
to the thirteenth of' St. Luke, ver. 4. where our Saviour
intimates, that those men, on whom the Tower of Si-
loam sell, were not sinners above all the Galileans; but
that which, indeed, put me to silence in this case, was,
that none of these sive men, who were now lost, were of
the number of those who went on shore to the massacre
of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our men
.could not bear the word massacre with any patience) |
and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said, put
me to silence for the present.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject
had worse consequences then I expected ; and the boat-
swain, who had been the head of the attempt, came
up boldly to me one time, and told me, he found that
I continually brought that affair upon the stage; that
I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
men very ill on that account, and himself in particu-,
lar; that as I was but a passenger, and had no conv-
H 5 mand
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I
night have- some ill design in my head, and, perhaps,
call them to an account for it, when they came to Eng-
land ; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to concern myself sarther
with him, or any os his assairs, he would leave the ship;
for he did not think it was sase to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and-
then told. him, that I did consess I had all along op-
posed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely aboui it, though not more upon him
than any of the fe^fnnat as to my having no command
in the ship, thaj^vas woe, nor did I exercise any au-
thority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; as to what
concern 1 had in the voyage, that was none of his
business; I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, even
sarther than 1 had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or-any one else; and began to be a little
warm with him: he made but little reply 10 me at
that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and, being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when
one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for
they had orders not to carry me on board. Anyone
may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes-
sage ; and I asked the man, who bade him deliver that
errant tones . He told me the cockswain. I said no
more to the sellow, but bid him let tnem know he had
delivered his message, and that I had given him no an-
swer to it.
I immediately went, and sound out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
saw, viz. that there'would certainly be a mutiny in the
ship; and intreated him to go immediately on board the
»79
(hip in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was essected on
board: the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and
in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone
off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and de-
sired to spean witii the captain; and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue (for the sellow talked
very well,) and repeating all he had said to me, told
the captain in a sew words, that as 1 was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any vio-
lence with me; which, if I had not gone on shore, they «,
would otherwiie have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought sit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to fen e in the ship under his com-
mand, they would perform it faithsully : but if I would
not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it,
they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with
him : and at that word ALL, he tamed his face about
Kowards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them ; at which all the seamen being
got together, they cried out, Oire and ALL, One and
ALL.
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised,
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he would consider of the matter; but that he could do
nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it: he used
some arguments with them, to shew them the unreason-
ableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in
vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his
face, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
engage to them not to suffer me to come on board the
ship.
This was an hard article upon him, who knew his
obligation to me, and did not know how I might take
it; so he began to talk cavalierly to them; told them,
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
that in justice he could not put me out of my own
house ; that this was next door to serving me as the fa-
mous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
he ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhabited
H 6 island,
ADVENTURES OF
island, and ran away with the ship: that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to Eng-
land again, it would cost them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not put me out of it: and that
he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleas-
ed. However, he would go on shore, and talk with-
in e there ; and invited the boatswain to go with him.
and perhaps they might accomodate the matter with
me.
But they all rejected the proposal ; and said, they
would have nothiug to do with me ho mare, neither
on board, nbron shore; and if I came on board, they
would go on shore. Well said the captain, if you are
all of this mind let me go on more, and talk with him;
ib away he came to me with this account, a little after
the message had been brought to me from the cock-
swain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must consess ^
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
consine him by violence, set sail, and run away with
the ship ; and then I had been stript naked in a remote
country, and nothing iO help myself: in short, I had
been in a worse case than when I was all alone in the
island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my
great satisfaction ; and when my nephew told me what
rhey had said to him, and how they had sworn, and
shook hands, that they would one and all leave the
ship, if I was suffered to come on board, I told him, he
Ihouldnot be concerned at it at all, for I would stay oa
shore; 1 only desired he would take care and send me
all my necessary thing? on shore, and leave me a suffici-
ent sum of money, and I would sind my way to Eng-
land as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
there was'no'way to help- it, but to comply with it.
So in short, he went on board the ship again, and satis-
sied the men, that his uncle -had yielded to their im-
portunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ship. So the matter was over in a very sew
hours:
hours ; the men returned to their duty, and I begun to
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world,
as I think I may call it, for I was. near three thousand
leagues, by sea, farther off from England, than I was
at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulph of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo andScan-
deroon; froin thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France : and this, put together, might be, at
least, a sull diameter of the globe ; but, if jt were to be
measured, I suppose it would appear to be a great deal
more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for
some English ships, which were coming to Bengal, from
Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on
board them for England: but as I came hither without
any concern with the English East-India company, so it
would be difficult to go from hence without their
- licence, unless with great favour of the captains of the
ships, or of the company's factors; and to both I was
an utter stranger:
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by con-
trarities, to see the ship set sail without me; a treat-
ment, I think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except from pirates running away with a
ship, and setting those that would not agree with their
villainy on shore; indeed this was the next door to
it, both ways: however, my nephew left me two ser-
vants, or rather., one companion, and one servant;
the sirst was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to
go with me; and the other was his own servant: I
took me also a good lodging in the house of an Eng-
lish woman, where several merchants lodged, some
. French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and
that I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing, I
stayed here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself; I had sum English
goods with me, of value, and a considerable some of
money,
money, my nephew surnishing me with a thousan*
pieces of of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I
had occasion, that 1 might not be straitened, whatever
might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage
too ; and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things was the
most proper for me, in my circumstances, because I
might always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to England; but none salling to my mind,
the English merchant, who lodged with me, and with
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came
to me one morning , Countryman, says he, I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with
my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with your's
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I
by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote
from our own country ; but it is in a country j where, by
us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got: if you will pat a thousand pounds
to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the
sirst we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, 111
be merchant; and we will go a trading voyage to China ;.
for what should we stand still for? The whole world is
in motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures
of God, heavenly bodies, and earthly, are busy and dili-
gent : why should' we be idle? There are no drones,
says he, living in the world but men: why should we
be of that number?
I liked this proposal very well, and the more, because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and
in so friendly a manner; I will not say but that I might,
by my loose and unhinged circumstances, be the sitter
to embrace a proposal for trade, and, indeed, for any
thing else ; or otherwise, trade was none of my element:
however, I might, perhaps, say, with some truth, that
if trade was not my element, rambling was; and no pro-
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never
seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.
It
It was, however, some time before we could get a
ship to our mind ; and when we got a vessel it was not
easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the
sailors which we should pick up there; after some time
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men;
with these, we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it
would be but very little diversion to any body, to give
a long account of the places we went to, and the people
who inhabit there; those things I leave to others, and
reser the reader to those journals and travels of English -
men, many of which, I sind, are published, and more
promised every day: it is enough for me to tell you,
that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, sirst; and from thence to Siam, where we ex-
changed some of our wares for opium, and for some
arrack; the sirst, a Commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was very
much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and
returned to Bengal; and I was very well satissied with
my adventure. I observe that our people in England
often admire how the osficers, which the company sodd
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there
get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes
come home worth sixty, seventy, and an hundred thou-
sand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much
sarther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
then be no wonder; and much less will it be so, when
we consider, that at all those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant
demand for the growth of all other countries, that there
is a certain vent for the return, as well as a market a-
broad for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so
much money by the first adventure, and such an insight
into
ADVENTURES OP
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years.younger, I mould have been tempted to have rfaid
here, and sought no farther for making my fortune: but
what was all this to a man on the wrong side of three-
score; that was rich enough, and came abroad more in
obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a
covetous desire of getting in it? And, indeed, I think,
it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire;
for it was so: when 1 was at home, I was restless to go
abroad; and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at
home. 1 fay, what was this gain to me? I was rich
enough already; nor had I any uneasy desires about 1
getting more money; and therefore, the prosits of the
voyage to me, were things of no great force to me, for
the prompting me forward to farther undertakings:
hence I thought, that by this voyage I had made no
progress at all; because I was come back, as I might call
it, to the place from whence I came, as to an home;
whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satissied with seeing, was still more desirous
of wandering and seeing. I wa^ come into a part of the
world which I never was in before , and that part in par-
ticular which I had heard much of; and was resolved to
see as much of it as I could; and then I thought I might
fay, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my sellow-traveller and I had different notions;
I do not name this to insist upon my own, for I acknow-
ledge his was most just, and the most suited to the end of
a merchant's lise; who, when he is abroad upon adven-
tures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is like to get the most money by:
my new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,
and would have been content to have gone like a car-
rier's horse, always to the fame inn, backward and; for-
ward, provided he could, as he called it,, sind his ac- .
count in it: on the other hand, mine, old as I was, was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see
a thing twice over.
But this was nos all: I had a kind of impatience
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled'
resolution imaginable, which way to go: in, the inter-
ns these consultations, my. friend, who was always
upon
upon the search for business, proposed another voyag*
to me, viz. among the spice-islands ; and to bring home
a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the islands
belong partly to the Spaniards; though we went riot so
sar, but to some other, where they have not the whole
power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficul-
ty was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last: ,
nothing else offering, and sinding that really stirring
about and trading, the prosit being so great, and, as I
may Jay, certain, had more pleasure in it, and more sa-
tissaction to the mind, than sitting still; which, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of lise, I resolved on.
this voyage too; which we made very successsully,
touching at Borneo, and several islands, whose names I
do not remember, and came home in about sive months:
we fold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away for the Gulph; and making near sive of cne, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at
me; Well now, said he, with a sort of an agreeable in-
sult upon my indolent temper, is not this better than
walking about here, like a man of nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and igno-
rance of the Pagans? Why truly, said I, my friend, I
think it is; and I begin to be a convert to the principles
of merchandizing; but I must tell you, said, by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if once
I conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old
as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the world till
I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never
let you lie llil!.
But to be short with my speculations; a little while
after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she
was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about
two hundred tons burden ; the men, as they pretended,
having been so sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as if
having got money enough, or being willing, for other
reasons, to go for Europe, he gavepublick notice, that
he would sell his ship: this came to my ears before my
new partner heard of it: and I had a great mind to buy
it: sot went home to him, and told him of it; he con-
siders awhile, for he was no rash man neither : but, mu-
sing some time, he replied; She is a little too big: but,
however, we will have her. Accordingly we bought the
strip: and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and took posLiiion: when we had done so, we resolved
ft) entertain the men, if we could, to join them with
those we had, for the pursuing our business : but on a sud-
den, they having not received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we afterwards learnt, not one of
them was to be found. We enquired much about them,
and at length were told, that they w ere all gone toge-
ther by land, to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's
residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat, and
so by sea to the gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as
that I misted the opportunity of going with them; for
such a ramble,' I thought, and in such company as would
both have guarded me, and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design ; and I should both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satissied a sew days after, when I came
to know What fort of sellows they were; for, in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were at-
tacked on the shore by some of the Malaccans, who had
killed the captain and three of his men ; and that after
the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did;
and had brought her in at the bay of Bengal, leaving
the mate and sive men mare on shbre ; of whom we shall
h£ar sarther.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we did
not4 f consess, examine into things so exactly as
we ought; for we never enquired any thing of the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
have saulteied in their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps, contradicted themselves; or, one-
who-
how or other, we should have seen reason to have sus-
pected them; but the man sliewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called him-
self by that name ; and we would not contradict him ; and
However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch; and we now resolved fora
second voyage to the . south-east, for cloves, &c. that is
to say, among the Phillippine and Malacca isles; and
in short, not to sill this part of my story with trisles, when
what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from sirst
to last, six years in this country, tracing from port to port
backward and forward, and with very good success ; and
was how the last year with my partner, going in tlie ship
above-mentioned, on a voyage to China; but designing
first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the sireights of Ma-
lacca/and among the islands, we were no sooner got clear
of those difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to sind
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port;
and my partner, who knew the country better than I tlid,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia;
for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson,
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself: This river lies on the north-side of the great
bayorgulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on more for re-
freshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman,
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an En-
glish East-India ship, which rode in the same river,
up at, or near the city of Cambodia; what brought
him hither we knew not 5 but he comes up to me, and,
speaking English, Sir, says he, you are a stranger to me
and I to you; but I have something to tell you, that very
nearly concerns you.
I looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
at sirst I had known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, and not yourself, what moves you

to tell it me? lam moved, fays-he, by the imminent
danger you are in; and for aught I see, you have to
knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said s, but
that my ship u leaky, and I cannot sind it out; but I
propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can
sind it out. But, sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, sind ft,
or not sind it, you will be wiser than to hy your ship cm
shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to
you: Do you know, sir, said he, the town of Cambodia
lies about sifteen leagues up this river? and there are
two large English ships about sive leagues on this side,
and three Dutch. Well, said I, and what is that to me?
Why, sir, says he, is it for a man that is upon suchj ad-
ventures is vou are, to come into port, and not examine
sirst what ships there are there, and whether he is able to
deal with them? I suppose you do not think you are a
match for them. I was amused very much -at hi* dis-
course, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot ima-
gine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the com-
pany's ships, or Dutch ships; I am no interloper;
what can they have to say to me?
He looked like a man half angry, half pleased;
and, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, sir, says he, if
you think yourself secure, yon must take your chance;
I am'/orry your sate should blind you against good
advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to
sea immediately, you will the very next tide, be at-
tacked by sive long boats sull of men; and, perhaps,
if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and
the particulars be examined into afterwards: I thought,
sir, added he, I should have met with a better recep-
tion thj{n this, for doing you a piece of service of sech.
importance. I can never be ungratesul, said I, for
any service, or to any man that offers me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension, said I, what
they should have such a design upon me for: How-
ever, since you say there is no time to be lost, and
that there is some villainous design in hand against me,
I will go on board this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can
swim
fivim without stopping it: But sir, said I, shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this f Can you give
me no farther light into it?
I can tell you but part of the story, sir, fays he; but
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and, 1 believe, I
could persuade him to - tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it : but the short of the story is this, the
sirst part of which, I suppose, you know well enough,
viz. That you were with this ship at Sumatra; that
there your captain was murdered, by the Mallaccans,
with three of his men; and that y ou, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of
the. story,-and you will all be seized aspirates, lean
assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for
you know merchants ships shew but little law to pi-
rates, if they get them in their power.
Now you speak plain English, said I, and I thank
you ; and though I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, but I am sure we came honestly,
and fairly by the ship, yet, seeing such work is a
doing, as you fay, and that you seem to mean honestly,
I will be upon my guard. Nay, sir, fays he, do not
talk of being upon your guard; the best desence is to
be out of the danger; if you have any regard to your
lise, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea,
without fail at high-water ; and as you have a whole tide
before you, you will be gone too far out before they
can come down; for they will come away at high-
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them by the difference of the
tide, not reckoning the length of the way. Besides,
as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not
venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it
blows.
Well, said I', you have been very kind in this: What
shall 1 do for you, to make you amends? Sir, fays he,
you may not be so willing to make me amends, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the truth of it; I
will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months pay
due tome on board the ship . -, which I came out
ef England in; and'the Dutchman, that is with rue* ha'
'..t/.-... ,
. . il ...... t «-»
ADVENTURES OF
seven months pay due to him; if you will make good
four pay to us, we will go along with you; if you sind
nothing more in it,e will desire no more; but if we
do convince you, that we have saved your lise, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will [leave
the rest to you.
I consented to this readily; and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came
to the ship side, my partner who was on board, came
out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great
deal of joy, O ho ! Oho ! we have stopped the leak V
we have stopped the leak! Say you so, said I, thank
God ; but weigh the anchor then immediately: Weigh!
says he; What do you mean by that? What is the mat-
ter ? fays he. Ask no questions, said I, but all hands
to work, and weigh, without losing a minute: He was
surprised: But however he called the captain, and he,
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and
though the tide was not quite done,' yet a little land-
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea: then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story at large; and we
called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as
it took us up a great deal of time, so before we had done,
a seamen comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us
that the captain bade him tell us, we were chased:
Chased, said I, by whom and by what? By sive 'sloops,
or boats, said the sellow, sull of men. Very well, laid
I ; then it is apparent there is something in it. In the -
nextplace, I ordered all our men to be called up; and
told them, that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they-
would stand by us, and by one another,? The men an-
swered, chearsully, that one and all, they would live and
die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way he
thought best for us to manage a sight with them: For,
resist them I resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them
them off with our great shot, as long as we could, and
then to sire at them with our small arms, to keep them
from boarding us; but when neither of these would do
any longer, we would retire' to,our close quarters ; perr
haps they had not materials & break open our bulk-
nds, or getin upon us. . \
The
The gunner had in the mean time, orders to bring
<two guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
clear the deck, and load them with musquet-bullets, and
small pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand;
and thus we made ready for sight: but all this while kept
out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at
a distance, being sive large long-boats following us, with
all the fail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses, we could
see, were English, had outsailed the rest, were neartwo
leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably;
so that we sired they would come up with us: upon
which we found a gun without a shot, to intimate that
they mould bring to: and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley: but they kept crowding after
us, till they came within shot; upon this we took in
our white flag, they having made no answer to it,
hung out the red flag, and sired at them with shot: Not-
withstanding this, they came on till they were near
«nough to call to them with a speaking trumpet, which
we had on board: so we cai'ed them, and bade them-
keep off at their peril.
It was all one, they crouded after us, and endeavour-
ed to come under our stern, so to board us on our quar-
ter: Upon which, seeing they were resolute for mis-
chief, and depended upon the strength that followed
them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay
upon our broadside, when immediately we sired sive
guns at them : one of them had been levelled so true as
to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of* taking down their fail,
and running all to the head of the boat to keep her
from sinking: so she lay by, arid had enough of it;
but, seeing the foremost boat still crowd on after us, we
made ready to sire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one of three boats that
was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made
up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and
we could afterwards see h« take out the men : we called
again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her business with us:
but had no answer; only she crowded close under our
ster-
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dextroui
sellow, run out his two chace guns, and fired at her;
but the shot miffing, the men in the boat shouted,
waved their caps, and came on; but the gunner, get-
ting quickly ready again, sired among them a second
time; one shot of which, though it miffed the boat
itself, yet sell in among the men, and we could easily
see, had done a great deal of mischief among them;
but we, taking no notice of that, weared the ship again,
and brought our quarter to bear upon them; and, siring
three guns more, we found the boat was split almost to
pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her
stern, was shct quite away; so they handed their sail
immediately, and were in great disorder; but, to com-
plete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water: upon this I immediately manned
out our pinnance, which we had kept close by our side,
with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them srom drowning, and immediately to come
on board with them; because we saw the rest of the
boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace,
followed their orders, and took up three men; one of
which was just drowning, and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as they were on
board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and
stood sarther out to sea; and we found, that when the
other three boats came up to the sirst two, they gave
over their chace.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I
knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much
greater thanfl apprehended; I took care that we would
change our course, and not let any one imagine whitner
we were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite
out of the course of all European ships, whether they
were bound to China, or any where else, within the
commerce of the European nations.
When we were now at sea, we begar, to consult
with the two seamen, and, enquire sirst, what the
meaning of all this should be? The Dutchman let us
into
Into the secret of it at once; telling us, That the sel-
low that sol3 us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got
into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while ; till at length, he in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which sailing near the more, in its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part os the shore wkerethe boat was,
but made shift in the night, to take in the water farther
off, and, swimming a great while, at last'the ship's boat
took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two
of the'seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an ac-
count, that the sellow who had run awny with the ship,
sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an
English ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said,
very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and they
had such a propoffeffion against us before hand, it had
been in vain for us to have desended ourselves, or to
hope for any good quarters at their hands, especially
considering that our accusers had been our judges, and
that we could have expected nothing from them but
what rage would have dictated, and ungoverned passion
have executed: and therefore it was his opinion, we
should godirectly back to Bengal, from whence we tame
without putting in at any port whatever; because there
we could give an account of ourselves, and could prove
where we were when the ship put in, whom we bought
her of, and the like: and which was'more than all the
rest, if we were put to the necessity of bringing it before
the proper judges, we mould be sure to have some jus-
tice ; and not be hanged sirst, and judged afterwards.
Vol. II. I I was
ADVENTURES OP
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after
a little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it
was a very great hazard for us to attempt returning to
Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the
streights of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given,
we should be sure to be way-laid on every side, as well
by the Dutch of Batavia, as the English else-where;
that if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we
should even condemn ourselves, and there would want
no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was os my mind., and that
we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast ofTonquin, and so on to Oiina ; and
from thence purluing the sirst design, as .to trade, sind
some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come
back in some of the vessels of the country, such'as we
could get. This was approved of as the best method
for our security , and accordingly we steered away 'M.
N. E. keeping above sifty leagues osf from the usual
course to the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
sirst, the winds, when we came to that distance from
the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us blow-
ing almost trade, as wecall it, from the east, andE.N.E.
so that we were a long while upon our voyage; and we
were but ill provided v,ith victuals for so long a run
and, which was still worse, there was feme danger, that
those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us.,
whereof some were bound that way, might be got in be-
fore us-, and if not, some other ship, bound to China,
might have informaiion of us from them, and pursue us
with the same vigour.
I must consess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
mysels, including the late escape from ti.e long boats.,
to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever
I was in through all my past lise.; for, whatever ill cir-
cumstances I had been in, d .was never puriued for a
.thief before; nor had I ever done any thing tr.at me-
rited the najne of dishonest, or fraudulent, much less
thievish. I na3 chiefly been mine own enemy; or, as
«*.- • I may
I may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but my
own. fiut now I was embarrassed ir. the worst condition,
imaginable; for though I was persectly innocent, I was
in no condition to make that innocence appear. And
if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt
of the worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among
the people I had to do with. ,
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it, I knew not; or what port or place
we should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned- at sirst, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several ports of
that coast, told me, he would put in on the coast of
Cochinchina, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao,- a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European fami-
lies resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly,
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very
much streightened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coall very early in the morning; and upon re-
flection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the
danger, if we hr.d not escaped, we resolved to put into a
small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to see if we could, either over land,
or by the (hip's pinnace, come to know what ship's were
in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance ; for though we did not immediately see
any European ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet, the next
morning, there came into the bay two Dutch strip's, and
a third without any colours spread out, but which we
telicved to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two
leagues distance, steering for the the coast of China ; and
in the afternoon we went by two English ships, steering
the same course ; and thus we thougkt, we saw ourselves
beset with enemies, both one way and the other. The
place we were in was wild and barbarous the people
thieves, even by occupation or prosession; and though
it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and ex-
cept getting a sew provisions/- cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet ft 'was with much disficulty
I Z that
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them se-
veral ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
sew leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by
our boat we coasted north-east to the point of land
which opens to the great bay of Tonquin; and it was
in this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a word, we were surrounded with ene-
mies. The people we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no
correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only
in sish and oil, and luch gross commodities; and it
way be particularly seen, that they are, as I said, the
mcit barbarous of any of the inhabitants; viz. that
among other customs they have this one, that if any
vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; that
is to say, slaves | and it was not long before we found
a spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol-
lowing.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak
at sea, and that we could not sind it out; and however
it happened, that, as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of fciam;
yet, as we did not sind the shirj.' o persectly tight and
found as we desired, we resolved, while we were iri this
place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things
we had on board, which were not many, and to wash
and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to sind out where
the leaks were
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we mignt come at her
bottom: for, on second thoughts, we did not care to
lay her dry aground, neither could we sind out a pro-
place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a sigh;, came wondering down to the shore to
look at us: and seeing liie ship lie down on one side
in a such a manner, and heeling towards the shore, and
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bot-
tom,
'97
torn, with stages, and with their boats on the off side,
they presently concluded that the ship was cast away,
and lay so very sast on the ground.
On thi-i supposition they came all about us in two or
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats, having
ibmo of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the
ship, and if they had found us there, to have carried us
away for staves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we knew not who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at work, on the
outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seasaring man knows
how.
They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; but, being willing to be sure, we took
this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition, to those
that were at work to defend themselves with, if there
should • be occasion: and it was no more than need:
for, in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck:
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or
- to save our lives by the help of our boats: and when
. we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they aU belonged to them: and away they came di-
rectly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of
battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began" to be
frighted ; for we lay but in an ill posture to sight, and cried
out to us to know what they should do. I imme-
diately called to the men who worked upon the stages
to slip them down, and get up the side into the
ship: and bade those in the boat to row round and
come on board: and those sew of us who were on
board, worked with all the strength and hands we
had, to bring the ship to rights: but, however, neither
the men upon the stage, nor those in the boats, could
I 3 do
do as they were ordered, before the Cochinchinele were
upon them : and, with two of their boats boarded our"
lontr-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The sirst man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout strong sellow, who having a musquet in his h^nd,
never offered to sire it, but laid it down in the boat, like
a fool, as 1 thought. But he understood his business bet-
ter than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragged him by main force out of their own boat
into ours; where, taking him by the two' ears, he beat
his head so againll the boat's gunnel, that the sellow died
instantly in his hands; and in the meantime, a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musquet, and with-
the but-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked-
down sive of them, who attempted to enter the boat;
but tlii- was little towards resisting thirty or forty men,
who searless, because ignorant of their danger, began to
throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had but
sive men to desend it; but one accident gave our men a
complete victory, which deserved our laughter rather
than any thing else; and that was this:
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of
the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulk-
ed her, to slop the leaks, had got two kettles just let
down into the boat; one silled with boiling pitch, a-nd
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and iueh stuff as
the shipwrights used for that work; and the man that
tended the carpenter had a great 'ron ladle in his hand,
with which he supplied the men that were at work with
that hot stuff; two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this sellow stood, being in the fore
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladlesul of
the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half-naked, that they roared out like two bulls,
and enraged with the sire, leaped both into the sea.
Tihe carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done Jack,
give them some more of it; when stepping forward
hmself, he takes one of their mops, and dipping it in
the pitch pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentisully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats,
there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with
it
'99
h In a most frightsul pitisul manner, and made such an
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise,
and, indeed, nothing like it; for it was worth observing,
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out,
yet every nation have a particular way of exclamation,
and make noises as diiserent from one another as
their speech. 1 cannot give the noise these creatures
made a better name than howling, nor a name more
proper to the tone of it; for 1 never heard any thing
more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have
said, I heard howl in the forelt on the frontiers of Lan-
guedoc.
I was never pleased with a victory better in my lise:
not only as it was a persect surprise to me, and that our
danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory
without any bloodshed, except of that man the sellow
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage
wretches,- even though it was in my own.desence, know-
ing, they came on errads which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness
in nature: yet I thought it was a fad lise; when we must
be always obliged to be killing our sellow creatures to
preserve ourselves; and indeed, I think so still; and I
would, even now, suffer a great deal, rather, than I
would take away the lise even of the worst person inju-
ring me. I believe a'so, all considering people, ho
knew the value of lise, would be of my opinion, if they
. enteredseriouily into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story : all the hile this was do-
ing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men
on board,- had with great dexterity, brought the ship
almost to rights; and having gotten the guns into
their places again, the gunner called tome, to bid our
boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among
them/ I called back again to him, and bid him hot
offer to sire,for the carpenter would do the work 1th-
out him ; but bid him heat another pitch kettle; h ich
our cook, who was on'board, took care of. But the
enemy was so terrisied with what they met with in their
sirst attack, that they would not come on again; and
I 4 som*'
ADVENTURES OF
some -of them, that were farthest oft* seeing the strip'
IvvinA as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to
see theirtnistake, and gave over the enterprise, rinding it
not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry
sight; and, having gotten some rice, and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two
days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go
forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt
but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues
enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dis-
pose of for us.
We, therefore, got all our things on board the fame
evening, and the next morning were ready to fail. In
the mean time, lying at an anchor some distance from
the shore, we were not so much concerned, being now
in a sighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if
any enemy had presented. The next day, having sinish-'
ed our work within board, and sinding our ship was
persectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail; we would
have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to
insorm ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in,
as we supposed, but a little before ; so we kept on N. E.
towards the isle of Formosa, as much afraid of being'
seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch
or English merchant ship in the Mediterrean is of an
Algerine man of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as
if we would go to the Manillas or the Phillippine islands,
and this we did, that we might not fall into the way of
any of the European ships; and then we steered north
again, till we came to the latitude of zz deg. zo niin.
by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in
all their agreements and bargains ; which is what me did
not sind among c ther people and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here
by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony
20i
of what I have often observed, vi2. that the christian
religion always civilizes the people, and reforms their
manners, where it is received, whether it works saving
efsects upon them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast
of China a: an equal distance, till we knew we were
beyond all the ports of China, where our European
ships usually come: being resolved, if possible, not to
fall into any of their hands, especially in this country,
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of
being entirely ruined: nay, so great was my sear in par-
ticular, as to my being taken by them, that I believe
sirmly I would much rather have chosen to fall into the
hands of the Spanish inquisition.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we
resolved to put into the sirst trading port we should come
at; .and, standing in for the shore, a boat came off two
leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer
his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board: upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in,
and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulph of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the Gulph of Nan-
quin very well; but, smiling, asked us what we would
do there.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, callicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
&c. and so would return by the fame course we came.
He told us our best port had been to have put in at Ma-
cao, where we could r.ot fail of a market for our opium,
to our satisfaction, and might, for our money, have
purchased all sorts of China goods, as cheap as we could
at Nanquin. ,
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk,
of which he was very opiniated, or conceited, I told
•him, we were gentlemen, as well as merchants ; and
that we had a mind to go and fee the great city of
, • ,I 5 Pekin
ADVENTURES OF
Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China,
Why then, fays the old man, you should go to Ningpo,
where, by the river that runs into the sea there, you may
go up within sive leagues of the great canal. This
canal is a navigable made stream, which goes through
the heart of all that vast empire of China,.crosses all the
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of slui-
ces and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being:
in length near 270 leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now: the great question is, If you can carry
us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel
to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so
very well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up that
way just before. This gave me a little shock ; a Dutch-
ihip was now our terror, and we had much rather have
met the devil, at least if he had not come in too fright-
ful a sigure: we depended upon it, that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition/
to sight them ; all the ships they trade with in those parts-
being of great burden, and of much greater force tham
we were.
The old man found me a little consused, and under
some concern, when he named a Dutch ship ; and said
tome, Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war with your na-
tion. No, said I, that's true; but I know not what li-
berties men may take, when the) are out of the reach-
of the laws of the country. Why,said he, you are no
pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle
with peaceable merchants sure.
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into
my face at that word, it was hindered by some stop In
the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it; fork
put me into the greatest disorder and consusion imaginable
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that
the old man easily perceived it.
Sir, said he, I sind you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which
way you think sit; and depend upon it, I'll do you all
the service I can. Why, Seignior, said I it is true, I
a little unsettled in my resolution at this time,
whither to go in particular; and I am something more
so, for 'what you said about pirates: I hope there are no
pirates in these seas, we are butin an ill condition to meet
with them: for you see we have but small force, and bat
very weakly manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be concerned, I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these sifteen
years, except one, which was seen, as J hear, in the bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured
she is gone to the southward: nor was she a ship of any
great force, or sit for the work: she was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew
that were on board, after the captain and some of his
men had been murdered by the Malaccans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.
What! said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter>
Did they murder the captain? No, said he, I do not
understand that they murdered him : but, as they after-
wards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed
they betrayed him into the hands of the Malaccans, who
did murder him : and, perhaps, they procured them to
doit. Why then, said I, they deserve death., as much
as if they had done it themselves, Nay, said the old
man, they do deserve it: and they will certainly have it
if they light upon any English or Dutch ship: for they
have all agreed together, that, if they meet that rogue,
they will give him no quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of
these seas; how- can they meet with him them? Why>
that is true, said he, they do say so: but he was, as I
tell you, in the bay of Siam in the river Cambodia, and
was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they run
away with her; and some English and Dutch traders be-
ing in the river, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay, said he, if the foremost boats had been wellsecond*-
ed by the rest, they had certainly taken him: but he,
sinding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about
and sired at these two, and disabled them, besore the other
came up ; and then standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and so he got away. But they
have all so exact a description of the ship that they
16 will
will be sure to know him; and where-ever they find
him, they have vowed to give no quarter to either the
captain, or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the
yard-arm.
What! said I, will they execute them right or wrong,
hang them sirst, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
feid the old pilot, there is no need to make a formal bu-
siness of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them
back to back, arit l set them a diving; it is no more than
they rightly deserve.
I knew I had my old man sast aboard, and that he
could do me no harm; so that I turned short upon him:
Well, now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very reason
why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the coun-
try, where the English or Dutch ships come: for, be it
known to you, Seignior, those captains of the English
and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, prOud, insolent
sellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, or
how to behave themselves, as the laws of God and na-
ture direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murder-
ers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult
men salsly accused, and determine them guilty without
due enquiry , and perhaps I may live to call some of
them to an account for it, where they may be taught
how justice h to be executed; and that no man ought to
be treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had
of the crime, and that he is the man.
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
had attacked : and gave him a sull account of the skir-
mish we had with their boats, and how foolishly and
coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story
of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reasons I had to believe that this
story of killing the master by the Malaccans was not
true; as also the-running away with the ship: but that
it was all a siction of their own, to suggest that the men
were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure
it was so, before they had ventured to attack us by sur-
prise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that the/
- would
would have the blood of those men, who were killed
there, in our just desence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation; and told
us, we were very much in the right to go away to
the north; and that if he might advise us, it should be
to sell the ship in China, which we might very well do,
and buy or build another in the country: and, said he,
tho' you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get
. one able enough to carry you and all your goods back
again to Bengal, or any where else.
I told him I would take his advice, when I came to
any port where I could sind a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nar.quin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back
again; and that he would procure me people both to buy
one, and sell the other.
Well, but, Seignior, says I, as you fay they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures,
be instrumental to bring some honest ^innocent men into
a terrible broil, and, perhaps, be murdered in cold blood;
for where-ever they sind the ship they will prove the
guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship:
and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and
murdered. Why, said the old man, I'll sind out a way
to prevent that also : for as I know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the
wrong: that though the people who were on board at
sirst might run away with the ship, yet it was not true
that they had turned pirates: and that in particular those
were not the men that sirst went off with the ship, but
innocently bought her for their trade: and I am per-
suaded they will so far believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come. Well, said I, and
will yo& deliver one message to them from me? Yes,
I will fays he, if you will give it under your hand, in
writing, that I may be able to prove it came from you,
and not out of my own head. I answered, that I would
readily give it him under my hand. So I took a pen,
and ink, and paper, and wrote at large the story of
^faulting
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c. the pretended
reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it; andcon--
cluded to the commanders that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I lived to see them
there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of
my country were not grown out of use before I arrived
there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked
me several times, if I would stand to it. I answered, I'
would stand to it as long as I had any thing left in the'
world; being sensible that I should, one- time or other,,
sind an opportunity to put it home to them. But
we had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this let-
ter ; for hs never went back again. While those things
were passing between us, by way of discourse, we went
forward directly for Nanquin, and, in about thirteen days
fail, came to anchor at die south west point of the
freat gulph of Nanquin: whese, by the way, I came
y accident to understand, that the two Dutch ships
were gene that- length before me, and that I should cer-
tainly, fall into their hands. L consulted my partner
again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as
I was, and would very gladly'have been sase on shore-
almost any-where. However, I was not in such per-
plexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was
no creek or harbour,- which I might put into, and pur-
sue my business with the Chinese privately, and.be in no
danger of the enemy ?. He told me, if 1 would sail to -
the southward about two and forty leagues* there was a
little port called Quinchang, where the fathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress to
teach the christian religion to the Chinese, and where no<
European ships ever put in; and, if I thought proper to
put in there, I might consider what farther course to take
when I was on shore. He consessed, he said, it was not
a place for merchants, except, that at some certain times
they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of
'port,- as he called it, I may, perhaps spell wrong;

for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this,
together with the names of many other places set down
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water,
on an accident which I shall relate in its order: iut this
I remember, that the Chinese pr Japanese merchants we
correspond with,- call it by a different name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it
as above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this
place, we weighed the next day, having only gone
twice on shore, where we were to get fresh water ; on both
OB INS O N CRITS O E.
civil to us, and brought us abundance of things to sell
to us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice,
and some fowls ; but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary)
not till five days ; but it was very much to our satisfac-
tion; and I was joysul, and, I may fay, thanksul, when
I set my foot sase on shore; resolving,- and my partner
too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our sa-
tisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that un-
happy vessel again; and indeed, 1 must acknowledge,
that of all the circumstances of lise that ever I had any
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely
miserable as that of being in constant sear. Well does
the scripture say,. ' The sear of man brings a snare;' it
is a lise of death: and the mind is so entirely suppressed
by it, that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits
sink, and all the vigour of nature, which usually sup-
ports men under other afflictions, and is present to them
in the greatest exigencies, fails them here.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy,
by heightening every danger; representing the English
and Dutch captains to be men uncapable of hearing rea-
son, or distinguishing between honest men and rogues;
or between a story calculated for our own turn, made
out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true ge-
nuine account of our whole voyage, progress, and de-
sign; for we might many ways have convinced any
reasonable creature that we were- not pirates': the
goods- we had on board, the course we steered, our
_ franklv
frankly shewing ourselves, and entering into such a,n<I
such ports; even our very manner, the force we had,
the number of men, the sew arms, little ammunition
and shortprovisions; all these\vould have served to con-
vince any man that we were no pirates. The opium,
and other goods we had on board, would make it appear
the ship had been at Bengal? the Dutchman, who, it
was said, had the names of all the men that were in the
ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of Eng-
lish, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen
onboard. These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander, whose hands we might fall into,
that we were no pirates. -
But sear, that bjind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the; imagination at work, to
form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps, might
never happen ;. we sirst supposed, as, indeed, every body
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English*
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so en-
raged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our
beating off their boats, and escaping, that they would
Hot give themselves leave to enquire- whether we wer«
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we call
it, without giving us any room for a desence. We re-
flected that there was really so much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce enquire after any
more; as, sirst, that the ship was certainly the fame,
and that some of the seamen among them knew her,
and had been on board her; and secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that they
were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats,
and fled ; so that we made no doubt but they were as
sully satissied of our being pirates, as wo were satissied
of the contrary; and I often said, I knew not but I
should have been apt to have taken the little circum-
stances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my
case'was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or, perhaps,
considering, what they might have to offer in their
Issence.
But
But let that be how it will, those were our appre-
hensions; and both my partner and I too scarce slept a
night without dreaming of halters, and yard-arms;
that is to lay gibbets; of sighting, and being taken;
of killing, and being killed; and one night I was in
such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and 1 was knocking one of their seamen
down, that 1 struck my double sist against the side of
the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my
hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the flesh : so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, but I was once afraid I should have lost two of
my singers.
Another apprehension I bad, was, of the cruel ufagt
we sliould meet with from them, if we sell into their
hinds'; then the story of Amboyna came into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
did our countrymen there; and make some of our men,
by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they
never were guilty of; own themselves, and all of us, to
be pirates; and so they would put Us to death, with a
formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo;
which was worth four or sive thousand pounds, put all
together.
These things tormented me, and my partner too;
night and day; nor did we consider that the captains of
ships have no authority to act thus; and if we had sur-
rendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the
destroying u=, or torturing us, but would be accountable
for it when they came into their own country. This, I
fay, gave me no satisfaction; for, if they u ill act thug
with us, what advantage would it be to us that they -
would be called to an account for it: or, if we w ere
sirst to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us
to have them punished when they came home f
I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections
I now had upon the past variety of my particular cir-
cumstances ; how hard I thought it was, that I, wholiad
spent forty years in a lise of continued difficulties and
was, at last, come, as it were, at the port or haven
which all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty,
mould
ADVENTURES OF
should be a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own un-
happy choice; and that I, who had escaped so many
dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged-
in my old age, and in so remote a place,- for a crime I
was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of; and
in a place and circumstance, where innocence was ntt
like to be any protection at all to me.
Alter these thoughts, something of religion would
come in; and I would be considering that this seemed
to me to be a disposition of immediate providence; and
I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such ; that
although 1 was innocent as to men, I was far from
being innocent as to my maker; and I ought to look
n, and examine what other crimes in my lise were moit
obvious to me, |and from which Providence might jull—
ly inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I .
ought to submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if
it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upori-
me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take
its place; and then I would be talking myself up to vi-
forous resolution, that I would not be taken to be
arbaroully used by a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold blood; that it was much better to have fallen into
the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters, and
who, I was sure, would seast upon me, when they had
taken me, than by those, who would, perhaps, glut their
rage upon me, by inhuman tortures and barbarities;
that, in the case-of the savage?, I always resolved to
die sighting, to the last gasp; and why mould I not do
so now, seeingit was much more dreadsul, tome at least,
to think of falling into these men's hands, than ever it
was to think of being 6Sten by men: for the savages,
give them their due, would not eat a man till he was
dead; and killed him sirst, as we do a bullock; but
that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of
-death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure
to put myself into a kind of sever, with the agitations
of a suppoied sight; my blood would boil, and my eyes
sparkle, as if 1 was engaged; and I always resolved^
that I would take no quarter at their hands: but even-
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow - up the
in
ship, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of.
But how much the greater weight the anxities and
perplexities of those things were to our thoughts while
we were at sea, by so much the greater was our satis-
saction, when we saw ourselves on shore f and my part-
ner told me, he dreamed, that he had a very heavy
load upon his back, which he was to carry up an hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it:
but the Portuguese pilot came, and took it offhis back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain: And truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a load taken oft'their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart, that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
I said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who waa
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for,
our goods, which, by the way, was much the fame:
it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to
it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilsering thieves, of which it seems
there were not a sew in the country. However, the
magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we had
a loldier with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who
stood centinel at our door; to whom we allowed a pint
of rice, and a little piece of money, about the value of
threepence per day, so that our goods were kept very
sase.
The sair or mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time; however, we found that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two Japanners, I
mean, ships from Japan, with goods which tliey had
bought in China, and were not gone away, having Ja-
panese merchants on shore.
The sirst thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was
to bring us acquainted with three missionary Roraish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time, converting the people to Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor work of it; and made
them but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was not our business, One of these was a French-
man,
man, whom they called father Simon; he was a jolly
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation,
not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did,
one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Geno-
ese; but father Simon was courteous, easy in his man-
ner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, where
ever they had opportunity: we often eat an drank with
those men: and though I must consess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far
from the true conversion, required, to bring heathen
people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount
to little more than letting them know the name of Christ,
fay some prayers to the Virgin Mary, and her son, in
a tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like ; yet it must be consessed, that these
religious, whom we call Missionaries, have a sirm belief
that these people soould be saved, and that they are the
instrument of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with-
the most violent tortures, for the fake of this work;
and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever
opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of
their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and
who have no prospect of the least temporal advantage to
themselves; (
But to return to my story ; This French priest, father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief
of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the
Chinese emperor ; and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macoa, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met together, but
he was inviting me to go that journey with him, telling
me, how he would shew me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire: and among the rest, the greatest city
in the world; a city, said he, that your London, and
our Paris, pat together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I consess, is very great, and
insinitely
insinitely sull of people: but, as I looked on those
things with difserent eyes from other men, so I shall
give my opinion of them in sew words, when I come,
in the course of my travels, to speak more particularly
of them.
But sirst, I come to my friar or missionary: Dining
with him one day, and being very merry .together, I
shewed some little inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great
many persuasions to consent. Why, father Simon, says
my partner, why should you desire our company so
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure. O!
says he, you may, perhaps, be good catholics in time;
my business here is to convert heathens ; and who knows
but I may convert you too? Very well father, said I,
so you will preach to us all the way. I won't be trou-
blesome to you, said he; our religion doe.< not divest us
of good manners; besides, said he, we are here like
countrymen; and so we are, compared to the place we
are in; and if you are hugonots, and I a catholic, we
may be all Christians at least ; at least, said he, we are all
gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being un-
easy to one another. I liked that part of his discourse
very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the BraCls ; but this father Simon did
not come up to his character by a great deal; for though
father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in
him neither, yet he had not that sund of Christian
zeal, strict piety, and sincere afsection to religion, that
my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said so
much.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but we had something
else before us at that time; for we had, all this while,
our ship and our merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we
were now in a place of very little business; and once I
was about to venture to fail for the river of Kilam; and
'the city of Nanquin: But Providence seemed now more
visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and 1 was encouraged from this very time to
think,
think, I should, one way or other, get out of this entan-
gled circumstance, and be brought home to my own
country again ; though 1 had not the least view of the
manner; and when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what method it was to be done.
Providence, I fay, began here to clear up our way a
little; and the sirst thing that ofsered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
began to enquire what goods we had; and, in the sirst
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very
good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head,
that he might perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
shrunk up hi< shoulders at it, when at sirfl proposed
to him; but in a sew days after, he came to me, with
one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and
told me, he had a proposal to make to me, and that was
this: He had bought a great quantity of goods of us
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him)
of buying the ship; and that therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the {hip ; but if I would let the
fame men who were in the ship navigate her, he would
hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send them
from thence to the Phillippine islands with another
loading, which he would pay the freight of, before
they went from Japan; and thati at their return, he
would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal,
and so eager did my head run upon rambling, that
I could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of
going with him, and so to sail from the Phillippine islands
away to the Soutti Seas; and accordingly 1 asked the
Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Phillippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no
he could not do that; for then he could not have the re-
turn of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan,
he said, at tLe ship's return. Well, still I was for taking
him at (hat proposal, and going myself; but my partner,
wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who
are
•are a salse, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of
•the Spaniards at the Philippines; more salse, more cruel,
more treacherous, than they.
But to bring this long turn of our assairs to a conclu-
sion; the sirst thing we had to do, was to consult
with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japan ; and, while
-I was doing this, the young man, whom,- as 1 said, my
nephew had left with me as my companion rfbr my
travels, came to me and told me, that he thoqght that
voyage promised very sair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and he would he -very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not^ and would give
him leave, he would go as a.mcrchant, <or how I pleased
to order him; that if ever he came to England, ;and-X'
was there, and alive, he would render me a saith^^^c-'
-count of his success, and it should be as muchjjtine as I
:.pleased. '.V,
I was really loth to part with him ;-but, considering
-the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable,
and that he was a young sellow as likely to do weJl in
it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but sirst I
told him I would consult my partner, "and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it; and my partner made a most generous osfer:
he told me, you know it has been an unlucky (hip, and
'We both resolve not to go to sea in it again, if your
-steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage,
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him
:make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
one half of the prosits of the ship's freight to us, the
ROBINSON CRUSOE, aij
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my
young man, made him such an oiler, I could do no
less than offer him tne same; and ail the ship's com-
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the ship to him in property, and took a writing from
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at japan,
and got him a licence to come on shore, which the
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained ; paid him
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines,
loaded with japan and China wares, and a supercargo
of their own, Who trafficking with the Spaniards, brought
back European goods again, and a great quantity of
cloves and other spice ; and there he was not only paid
hjs freight very well, and at a very good price, but
being not willing to sell the ship then, the merchant sur-
nished him with goods on his own account; that, for
some money, and some spices of his own, which he
Ii6 .f ADVENTURES OF
Spaniards, where he fold his cargo very well. Here,
having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got
his ship made a free ship ; and the governor of Manilla
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and give him a licence to land there, and
travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe, with all his men.
He made' the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he fold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, some how or other, to go to Jamaica with al 1
his treasure; and about eight years after came to Eng-
land, exceeding rich; of which I shall take notice in
its place : in the mean time, I return to our partipula
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship, and ship's company,
it came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pence we should give to the two men, that gave us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river
of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done ns a con-
siderable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too, for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the
ihip, they came down to us, not only to betray the
design- that-was formed against us, but to go to sea with
us as pirates; and one of them consessed afterwards,
that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing,:- brought him to do it. However, the ser-
vice they 'did us was not the less ; and therefore, as I
had promised to be gratesul to them, I sirst ordered the
money

money to be paid to them, which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; that is to lay, th«
Englishmen nineteen months pay, and to the Dutch-
men seven; and, over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well; then I made the Englishman gun-
ner of the ship, the gunner being now maie second
mate and purler; the Dutchman I made boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country, at Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my mono ,
what could I think of myself now, when I wa? gotteir
about a thousand leagues farther off from home,
-and persectly destitute of all manner- ef prospect of
return!
All we had for it was this; that in about four months
time there was to be another fair at that place where
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly sind some Chinese junks or vessels; from
. Nanquin, that would be to be sold, and would carry us
and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very
.well, and resolved to wait: besides, as our particular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch
. strips cause thither, perhaps we might have an opportu*
city to load our goods, and get passage to some other;
place in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
siies into the country sirst, we went ten days journey
to see the City of Nanquin, a city well worth see-
ing indeed; they say it has a million of people in
it; which, however, I do not believe ; it is regularly
built, the streets all exactly strait, and cross one ano-
ther in direct lines, which gives the sigure of it great
advantage.
But when I came to compare the miserable people os
these countries with ours; their fabrics, their man-
ner of living, th ir government, their religion, their
Vol. II. r>, wealth
wealth, and their glory (as some call ;t) I must con-
scss, I do not so much as think it worth naming, or
worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after
me to read. „;
It is very observable, that we wonder at the gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the cerei-niries, the go~
vernmentthe manufactures, the commerce, and the con-
duct of these people; not that they are to be wondered
at, or indeed, in the least to be regarded: but because,
having sirst a notion of the barbarity of those coun-
tries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevail
there, we do not expect to sind any such'things so far
off.
Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to
the universal commerce of England, Holland, France,
and Spain,? What their- cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich surniture, and an jfi.
sinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a
scw junks and barks, to our navigation, our mer-
chants fleet?, our large and powersul navies? Our
city of London has more trade than all their mighty
(empire. One English, or Dutch, or French man of
war of 80 guns, would sight with and destroy all
the shipping of China. But the greatness of their
wealth, their trade, the power of their government,
and strength of their armies are surprising to us, because,
as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of
pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect
such things among them; and this, indeed, is the ad-
vantage with which-all their greatness, and power is re-
presented to us; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all;
for, as I have said of their ships- so it may be said of
their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
though they were to bring two millions of men into
the sield together, would be able tO'do nothing butruin
the cou ry, and ilarve themselves. If they were to
besiege a llrong town in Flanders, or 10 sight a disci-
plined army, one line < f German cuiralirers, or of
French cavalry, uould overthrow all the horse of Ghira;
a million of their soot could not stand before on - . in-
battled body of our insantry, posted so as not to b . ur-
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in
number; nay, I do not boast if I say, that 30,000
German or English foot, and i0,000 French horse,
would fairly beat all the forces of .China. And so of
our fortisied towns, and of the art of our Engineers, in
assaulting and desending towns; there is not a fortified
town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries aad attacks of an European army; and at
the fame time, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starved: no, not in ten years siege. They have sire-
arms, it is true, but they are aukward, clumsy, and
uncertain in going off; they have powder, but it is of
no strength; they have neither discipline in the sield,
exercise in their arms, skill to attack, or temper to re-
treat; and therefore I must consess it seemed strange to
me when I came home, and heard our people say such
sine things of the power, riches, glory, magnisicence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew that
they were a contemptible herd or croud of ignorant
sordid staves, subjected to a government qualisied only
to rule such a people; and, in a word, for I am now
launched quite beside my design, I say, in a word, were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
were not the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a croud of slaves as they, the czar of
Muscovy might, with much ease, drive them all out of
their country, and conquer them in one campaign;
and had the czar, who I since hear is a growing prince,
and begins to appear formidable in the world, fallen
this way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
Which attempt none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him ; he might, by this time, have
been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the
king of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their gran-
deur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry,
is impersect and impotent, compared to the fame things
in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning,
their skill in the sciences, they have globes and spheres,
and a sinatch of the knowledge of the mathematics;
bat when you come to enquire into their knowledge,
K. 2 how
how lhort-sighted are the wisest of their students?
they know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies; and so grofly, absurdly ignorant, that when the
sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they fall a clattering
with all the drums and kettles in the country, tofright
the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of
bees.
As this is the only excursion of this kind which I
have made in all the account I have given of my
travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of coun-
tries and people: it is none of my business or any part
iof my design: but giving an account of my own ad-
'Ventures, through a lise of insinite wanderings, ar.d
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, sew have
heard the like of, I shall fay nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them will make
necessary. I was now, as near as I can compute, in
the heart of China, about the--latitude of thirty de-'
grees »orth of the line, for we were returned from
Nanquin: I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin,
which I had heard so much of, and father Simon impor-
tuned me daily to do it; at length his time of going
away being set, and the other missionary, who was to
go with him, being arrived from Macao, it was neces-
sary that we should resolve either to go, or not to go;
so I reserred him to my partner, and /eft it wholly to
his choice; who, at length, resolved it in the affirma-
tive; and we prepared our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, as to sinding the way; for
we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate,
in the province where they reside, and who take great
state upon them, travelling with great attendance, and
uith great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, because all the
countries they pass through are obliged to surnish
provisions for them, and all their attendants. That
which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses,
from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had after
the market-price of the country, and the mandarin's
steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it
duly from us, so that our travelling in the retinue of
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness ta-
us, was not iuch' a mighty savour in him, but was,
indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other people travelling in the same
manner beside-; us, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, I faiy,
was a great advantage to him, for his country surnished
ali the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money
for them.
We were sive and twenty days travelling to Pekin,
through a country insinitely populous, but miserably
cultivated, the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though they boast so much
of the industry of the- people ; I fey, miserable; and
so it is, if we, who understand how to live, were to
endure it, or to compare it with our own, but not so to
these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride
of these people is insinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which
I call t.eir misery. I must needs think the naked savages
of h r irica live much more happy, because, a* they
have nothing, so they desire nothing ; whereas these are
proud sihI insolent, and, in the main, are mere besjpars
111 • ... ^.^J.
and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible, .and ii
chiefly mewed in theic clothes ar.d buildings, and in the
keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which i«
to the last decree ridiculous, their ccatempt of all the
world bet themselves.
I must consest, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary,
than here; and yet the roads here are wei! paved, and
v/cll kept, and very convenient for travellers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to see such an
haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed
K 3 - ingenuity
ingenuity is no more. My friend, sather Simon, and I,
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of those people , for example, coming
by the house of a country gentleman, as sather Simon-
called him, about ten leagues off from the city of Nan-
quin, we had, sirst of all, the honour to ride with the
master of the house about two miles; the state he rode
in was a persect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of
pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a
scaramouch, or merry-andrew; being a dirty callico*
with all the tawdry-trappings of a fool's coat, such as
hanging-sleeves, taffety, and cuts and slashes almost oa
every side; it covered a rich taffety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testisied, that his honour must needs
be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling crea-
ture,- such as in England might sell for about thirty or
forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature along 5 he had a whip
in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as sast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail: and thus he
rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we
were told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before uc. We travelled on
gently, but this sigure of a gentleman rode away before
us; and as we stopped at a village about an hou; to re-
fresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door,
eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand,
that the more we looked on him, the better he would be
pleased. - .
He sat under a tree, something like the palmettotree,
which essectually shaded him over the head, aiid on the
south lide ; but under the tree also was placed a large
umbrella, which made that part look well enough:
he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair, be-
ing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being
brought him by two women slaves, he had two more
whose osfice, I think, sew gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, viz. one sed the 'squire with a
spoon.
spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
icraped off what he let sall upon his worship's beard,
and taffcty vest, with the other; while the great sat
brute thought it below him to employ his own hands in
any of those samiliar offices, which kings and monarchs
-Hould rather do than be troubled with the clumsy singeri
of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus
ill-managed, must be to a man of common sense;
and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey; only sather Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had
to seed on, in all his state; which he said he had the
honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose
that an English hound would scarce have eaten, if it had
been offered him, viz. a mess of boiled rice, with a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag silled with green
pepper, and another plant which they have there, some-
thing like^our ginger, but smelling like mulk, and
ta!ting liW mustard; all this was put together, and a
small lumjt or piece of lean mutton boiled in it; and this
wa- his worship's repast, four or sive servants more at-
tending at a diilance. If he sed them meaner than he
was sed himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very
coarsely indeed.
As for; oar mandarin, with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a king ; surrounded always with his
.genllemeii, and attended in all his appearances with
such pomp, that 1 saw little or'hirn but at a distance ; but
this I observed, that there was not a horse in his
retinue, but that our carriers pack-horses in England
seem to me to look much better ; but they were so cover-
ed with equipage, mantles,- trapping;, and such like
trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are sat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but
their seet and their heads.
I was new light hearted, and all my trouble and
perp'exity that I had given an account of being over,
I had no anxious thoughts about me; which made this
K 4 journey
journey much the pleasanter to me; nor had I any iR
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
small river, my horse sell, and made me free cf the
country, as they call it; thati- to fay, threw me in ; the
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over : I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket*! ook, wherein I had set
down the names cf several people and places which I had
occasion to remember, and which not taking due care
of, the leaves rotted, and the words were never after
to be read, to my great loss, as to the names of some
places which I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with
me but the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. Asfcr
the Portuguese Pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we gave hirn his passage, that is to fay, bore his charges
for his comp.-.iiy; and to use him as an interpreter, for
he ur.deiiiood the language of the country, and spoke
good French, and a little English ; and, indeed, this old
man uas a most usesul implement to us every vhere;
fer we. had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing; Ah, Seignior Jnglese, laid he, I have
I'orr.ething to tell you, will make your heart glad. My
heart glad! sa:d I; what can that be ? I don't know
^ny thing in this country can cither give me joy or
giief, to any great degree. Yes, yes, laid the old man,
in broken English, make you glad, me sorrow; sorry
he w<?uld have said. This made me more inquisitive.
Why,'said I, will it make you lorry? Because, said he,
you have, brought me here twenty-sive days journey,
and v.ill leave me to go back alcne; and which way
shall I get to iny port afterwards, without a strip, with-
out a horse, without pecune? So lie called money;
Lting his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to
make ts merry with.
In sboit, he told us there was a great caravan cf
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and they5
were preparing to set but'on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or sive weeks, and he was lure
'v.e would take the opportunity to go with thtm, and
leave
leave hiiia behind to go back all alone. I consess, I
was surprised with this news : a secret joy spread itself
over my whole soul, which. I cannot describe, and never
selt before or since; and I had bo power, for a good
while, to speak a word to the old man: but at last I
turned to him: Ho.vdo you know this? said I: are
you sure it is true? Yes, said he, I met this morning, in
the street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
or one you call a Grecian, who is among them ; he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to ge to Tonquia
where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind,
and is now resolved to go back with the caravan t^
Muscow, and so down the river of Wolga to Astracan.
Well, Seignior, said I, do not be uneasy about being
left to go bask alone: if this be a method for my re-
turn to England, it shall be your fault if you go back
to Macao at all. We then went to consulting together
what was to be done, and asked my pirtner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it wculdsuit
with his affairs ? He told me he would do just as I would
for he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and
left his effects in such good hands, that as we made a
good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks,
wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carriage,
lie would be content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his
charges to Muscow, or to England, if he pleased ; nor,
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
part neither, if we had not rewarded him farther; for
the service he had done us was really worth all that,
and more: for he had not only been a pilot to us at
sea,' but he had been also like a broker for us Ost
shore : and his procuring for us the Japan merchant, was
some hundred of pounds in our pockets. So we consult-
ed together about it: and, being willing to gratify him,
u»h;ch was, indeed, but doing him justice, and very
willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him a quantity of coined gold, which as 1 com-
K's' pute \
pate it, came to about 175 pounds sterling between us,
and to bear his charges, both for himself and horse,
except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
to let him know what we had resolved; 1 told him, he
had complained of our being like to let him go back
alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he
should not go back at all: that as we had resolved to
go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he
should go with us, and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and 'said it was a long
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither,
nor to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
him, we believed it wa< so, and therefore we had re-
solved to do something for him, that mould let him
see how sensible we were of the service he had done
ns; and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which
he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that as
for his charges, if he would'go with us, we would
set him sase ashore, (lise and casualties excepted)
either in Muscovy, or in England, which he would,
at our own charge, except only the carriage of his
goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us, he would go with us over the whole world;
and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the jour-
ney. However, as it was with us, so it was with
the other merchants, they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in sive weeks, it was four
months and some odd days before ail things were got
together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
set out from Pekin; my partner and the old pilot had
gone express back to the port where we had sirst put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there;
and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on
his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought
ninety pieces of sine damasks, with nbout two hundred
pieces of other very sine silks, of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had all these bicught to Pekin
against
against ray partner's return: besides this, we bought
a very large- quantity of raw silk, and some other
goods: our cargo amounting, in these goods only,
to about three thousand sive hundred pounds ster-
ling, which, together with tea, and some sine cal-
licoes, and three camel-loads of nut-megs and cloves,
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our
retinue. »
The company wa< very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred horses
and camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty
men, very well armed, and provided for all events.
For, as the eastern caravans are subject to bz attacked
hy the Arabs, so are these by tile Tarters; but they are
not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor io barba-
rous when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly ; for there were about sixty of
them who were merchants or inhabitants of Muscow,
though of them some were Livonians, and to our parti-
cular satissaction, sive of them were Scots, who appeared
a'fo to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were sive in number, called all the gentle-
men and merchants; that is to say, all the passengers,
except the servants, to a great council, as ti.ey termed
it. At this great council, every one deposited a certain
quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary expence of buying forage on the way, where it
was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and tae like. And here they
constituted the journey, as they called it, viz. They
named captains and officers to draw us ail up, and give
the command in case os an attack, and gave every one
.their turn of command. Nor was this forming us into
order any more than what we found needful upon the
way, as shall be oblerved in its place.
The
The road all on this side of the country is very po-
pulous, and is sull of potters, and earth-makers, that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China
ware; and, as I was going along, our Portuguese pi-
lot, who'had always something or other to say to make
ns merry, came sneering tome, and told me, he would
shew the greatest rarity in all the country; and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-hu-
moured things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing
which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was
very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
me, it was a gentleman's house, built all with China
ware. Well, said I, are not the material' of their
building the product of their own country; and so' it i»
all China ware, it is not? No, no, says he, I mean,
it is a house all made of China ware, tuch as you call
so jn England: or, as it is called in our country, por-
celain. Well, said I, such a thing may be: How
big is it: Can we carry it in a bcx upon a camel? If
we can, we will buy it. Upon a camel! said the old
pilot, holding up both his hands, why there is a samily
of thirty people lives in it.
I was then curious, indeed, to see it: and when I came
to it, i&was nothing but this: it was a timber house,
or a house built, as we call it in England, with lath
and plaister, but all the plaistering was really China
ware, that is to say, it was plaistered with the earth that
makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, persectly white, and paint-
ed with blue sigures, as the large China ware in England
is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to-
the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined
up with hardened and painted tiles, like the little square
tiles we call gally-tiles in England, all made of the
sinest China, and the sigures exceeding sine indeed,
with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold,
many tiles making but one sigure, but joined so artisi-
cially with mortar being made of the seiae earth, that
it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The'
jloors of the rooms were of the same composition,
and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in
- -- several
several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Not-
tinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c. as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller
room«, like closets, which were all as it were paved
with the fame tile; the cielings, and in a word, all the
plaistering-work in the whole house, were of the same
earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles
-of the fame, but of a deep mining black.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and lite-
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the
journey, I could have stayed some days to see and ex-
amine the particulars of it. They told me there were'
fountains and sish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the
bottom and sides with the fame, and sine statues set up
in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain-
earthy and burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
may be allowed to excel in it; birt I am very sure they
excel in their accounts of it; for they told.me such
incredible things of their performance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that 1 care not to relate, as know-
ing it could not be true ; one told me, in particular, of
a workman that made a ship, with all its tackle,'
and masts, and fails, in earthen ware, big enough to
carry sifty men. If he had told me he launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole-
story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word,
that the sellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to
it. '.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan,
for which the leader of it for the day sined me about'
the value of three shillings; and told me, if it had
been three days journey without the wall, as it was
three days within, he must have sined me four times as
much, and made me ask pardon the next council
day, sol promised to be more orderly; for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all
together were absolutely necessary for our common
sasety.
made for a fortisication against the Tartars : and a very
In two da-

passed the great China wall,
ROBINSON CRUSdE-
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or,
indeed, climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us, its'length is near a thou-
sand Engfish miles, but that the country u sive hun-
dred in a strait measured line, which the wall bounds,
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes;
'tis about four fathom high, and as many thick in feme
places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without tres-
passing on cur t rders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I fa) , I stood still an hour to look at
it on every iidc, near, and far off, I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been ext- lling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
tars, which he happened not to understand as I meant
it, and so took it tor a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed; O Seignior Inglele, said he you speak in co-
lours. In colours! said I: what do you mean by
that? Why you speak what locks white this way, and
black that way; gay one way, and dull another way;
yon tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars;
you tell me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep
out Tartars; or, it will keep out none but Tartars: I
understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand you, said
he, joking; but Seignior Chinese understand you hi*
own way.
Well, said I, Seignior, do you think it would stand
Out an army of our country people, with a good train
©f artillery; or our engineers, with two compa-
nies of miners? Would they not batter it down in ten
days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow
it up into the air, foundation and all, that there should
be no sign of it left? Ay, ay, said he, 1 know that.
The Chinese wanted mightly to know what I laid,
and I gave him leave to tell him a sew days after,
for we were then almost out of their country, and
he was to leave us in a little time afterwards; but when
he knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest
J of
of way, and we heard no more of his sine story of
the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
After we had pasted this mighty Nothing, called a
wall, something like the picts wall, so famous in Nor-
thumberland, and built by the Romans, we began to
sind the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
consined to live in fortisied towns and cities, as being
subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars,
who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be re-
sisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began to sind the necessity of keeping to-
gether in a caraven, a< we travelled ; for we saw several
troops of Tartars roving about; but when 1 came to see
them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese em-
pire could be conquered by such contemptible sellows;
for they are a mere herd or croudof wild sellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, or man-
ner of sight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught
nothing, and are sit for nothing; and this we found
.the sirst day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country; our leader for the day
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting as
they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the crea-
tures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I
saw of their kind; only they will not run a great way,
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chace;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a flock,
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
In pursuit of'this odd fort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very
loud, but with a barbarous found that I had never
heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear
again. We all supposed this was to call their friends
about them; and so it was; for in less than half a
quartetf of an hour a troop of forty or sifty more
appeared
appeared at about a mile distance, but our work was
over sirst, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Muscow happened to
be amongst us: and as soon as he heard the horn, he
told us, in short, that we had nothing to do, but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and,
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were resolved;
We told him, We were ready to follow him: so he
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like
a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shewing the
sace of any order at all; but as soon as they saw us ad-
vance, they let fly their arrows: which, however, mif-
fed us very happily; it seems they mistook not their
aim, but their distance: for their arrows all sell a little
short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we been
about 20 yards nearer, we must have had several men-
wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted: and though it was at a
great distance, we sired, and sent them leaden bullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot sull gallop,
resolving to sall in among them sword in hand: for
so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and
bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool
courage too, that I never saw any man in action sitter
for command. As soon as we came up to them, we
sired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but
they fled in the grea:est consusion imaginable: the only
stand any of them made was on our right, where
three of thera stood, and, by signs, called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of feymitar in
their hands, and their bows hanging at their backs.
Our brave commander, without asking any body to
foHow him, galloped up close to them, and with his
fusil knocked one of them osf his horse, killed the
feoond with his pistol, and the third ran away : and thus
ended our sight; but we had this misfortune attending
it, vi2. that all our mutton that we had in chace .
got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as
for the Tartars, there were about sive of them killed :'
how manywere wounded, we knew not: but this we
knew,
knew, that the other party was so frighted with the noifc
of our guns, that they fled, and never made any at-
tempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards:
but in about sive days we entered a vast great wild de-
sert, which held us three days and nights march; and
we were obliged to carry our water with us in great
leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have
heard they do in the deserts of Arabia.
I asked our guides, whose dominion this was in?
and they told me, this was a kind of border that
might be called No Man's Land; being part of the
Great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; but that how-
ever, it was reckoned to China; that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves {
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert m the
whole march, though we were to go over some much,
larger.
In pasting this wilderness, which, I consess, was at
the sirst view very frightsul to me, we saw two or three
times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be
upon their own affairs, and to have no deiign upon us;
and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had
Homing to fay to us, we had nothing to soy to them; we
let them go.
Once, however, a party of them came so near as to
stand andjraze at us ; whether it was to consider what
ROBIKSO N CRUSOE.
we knew not; but when we were passed at seme dis-
tance by. them, we made a rear-guard of forty men,
and iioed ready for them, letting the caravan pass half
a mile, or thereabout;, before us; after awhile they
marched off, only we sound they assaulted us with sive
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a horse,
so that it disabled him ; and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in great need of a good farrier ; we sup-
pose they might shoot more arrows, which might fall
short of us; but- \ve saw no more arrows, or Tartars, at
that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being
BOt so good as at sirst, though still in the dominions of
tli
ADVENTURES OF
the Emperor of China; bat lay, for the most part, in
villages, some of which were fortisied, because of the
incursions of the Tartars. When we came ta one of
these towns (it was about two days and an half's jour-
ney before we were to come to the City of Naum),
I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty
to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses
also, such as they are, because so many caravans com-
ing that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to, to get rr.e a camel, would have gone
and setched it for me; but 1, like a fool, must be
ofsicious, and go myself along with him. The place
was about two miles out of the village, where it seems,
they kept the camels and horses seeding under a
guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being desirous, forsooth, of a little
variety. When we came to this place, it was a low
marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled
up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors;
having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I
came away; and the Chinese man, that went with me,
led the camel, when on a sudden came up sive Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the scllow, and
took the camel from him, while the other three
stepped up to me, and my old pilot ; seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but
my sword, which could but ill desend me against three
horseman. The sirst that came up, stopped short upon
my drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards):
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow
on the head, which I never sc!t till afterward, and
wondered, when I came to myself, what was the mat-
ter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat on the
ground , but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese
(so Providence unlocked for directs deliverances firm
dangers, which to us are unsoreseen), had a pistol in his
pocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars nei-
ther; if they had, I suppose they would net have at-
tacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there
is no danger.
The
'The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the sellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down
by main force a little towards him with the other, he
shot him into the head, and laid him dead on the spot;
he then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped
us, as I said, and before he could come forward again
(for it was all done as it were in a moment) made a
blow at him with ascymitar, which he always wore j
but, miffing the man, cut his horse into the side of his
head, cut one of his ears osf by the root, and a great
slice down the side of his sace. The poor beast, en-
raged with the wounds, was no more to be governed
by his'rider, though the sellow sat well enough too ; but
away he flew, and carried him cjuite out of the pi-
lot's reach, and at some distance rising upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar, and sell upon him.
in this interval the poor Chinese came iu, who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon ; however, seeing
the Tartar down, and his horse sallen upon him, he runs
to him, and, seizing upon an ugly ill-savoured weapon
he had by his side, something like a pole-ax, but not a
pole-ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But toy
old man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and,
seeing he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to
sight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock-still, the
old man stood still too and salls to work with his
tackle to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the
same or another, I know not, but away he scoured, and
left my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a
complete victory.
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought,
when I sirst began to awake, that I had been in a sweet
sleep; but as 1 said above, I wondered where I was,
how I came upon the ground, and what was the mat-
ter; in a word, a sew minutes after, as sense returned,
I selt pain, tho' I did not know where; I clapped my
hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I
selt my head ach; and then, in another moment, me-
mory
mory returned, and every thing was present to ote
again. «
I jumped up upon my seet instantly, and got hold oF
my sword, but no enemies in view. I found a Tartar
lie dead,1' and his horse standing very quietly by him
and, locking farther, I saw my champion and deliverer,
who had been to see what the Chineie had done, com-
ing back with his hanger in his hand; the old man,
seeing me on my seet, came running to me, and em-
braced me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before
that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would
see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
call a broken head; neither did I afterwards sind any
great inconvenience from the blow other than the place
which was hurt, and which was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory;
for we lost a camel, and gained a horse; but that which
was remarkable, when we came back to the village,
the man demanded to be paid for the camel: I disputed
it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chi-
nese Judge of the place: that is to iay, in English, we
went before a justice of the peace. Give him his
due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality^ and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked
the Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was? I am no servant, said he, but
went with the stranger. At whose request? said the
justice. At the stranger's request, said he. Why then
said the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his
servant, wit as delivered to him, and he must pay for
it.
I consess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word
to say : but admiring to see such just reasoning upon the
consequence, and so accurate stating the case, 1 paid
willingly for the qamel, and sent for another: but you
may observe, I sent for it: I did not go to setch it my-
self any more : I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire : they call it fortisied, and so it is, as'fortisications
go there: for this I will venture to affirm, that all the
Tartars
Tartars in Karakathay, which I believe, are some mil-
lions, could not batter down the walls with their bows
and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it
laugh at you.
We wanted, ai I have said, about two days journey
of this city, when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road, to tell all travellers ana caravans to
halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for that an
unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
Jiad appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers: however, it
was caresully done of the governor, and we were very
glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly
two days after, we had 200 soldiers sent us from a gar-
rison of the Chinese on our lest, and three hundred more
from the city of Naum, and with those we advanced
boldly: the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched
in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men
on each side of our camels with our baggage, and the
whole rararan in the center; in this order, and well
prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for
the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had ap-
peared; but the next day, when they did appear, it
Wi.s quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when marching from a
little well-situated town, called Changu, we had a river;
to pass, wh'ere we were obliged to serry; and had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the
time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear
there.
About three hours after, when we were entered upon
a desert of about i5 or 16 miles over, behold, by a cloud
of dust they raised, we saw an enemy wa- at hand; and
they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the
spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked
so big the day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them ; which is a certain sign
in a soldier, that he is just ready to run away. My
old
old pilot was of ray mind; and^.^iilft- near me, he
called out, Seignior IngleTe.'Yaid he, those sellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us afl; for if the Tar-
tars come on, they will never stand it. I am of your
mind, said 1: but what course must be done? Done,
laid he, let sifty of our men advance, and slank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will light
like brave sellows in brave company; but without it
they will every man turn his back. Immediately 1 rode
up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly sifty of us marched to the right
wing, and sifty to the left, and the rest made a line of
reserve , for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
dred men to make another body to themselves, and to
guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
send an hundred men to assist the last sifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
ten thousand we thought was the least. A party of
them came on sirst, and viewed our posture, traversing
the ground in the front of our line; and as we found
them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings
to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot, which was done; but they went oft,
and I'suppose went back to give an account of the re-
cepti6n they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that
salute clogged their stomachs; for they immediately
halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling off
to the. left, they gave over the design, and said no more
to us for that time, which was very agreeable to our
circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a
battle with such a number.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or
Naunm; we thanked the governor for his care for us,
and collected to the value of loo crowns, or there-
abouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us:
and here we rested one day . This is a garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here ; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers
ky nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandoned that part of the country (which lies from
the city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate
2 and
and ur.sit for us*?^and more especially, being so very
remote, and so difficult to send troops hither for its de-
fence ; for we had yet above two thousand miles to Mus-
covy, properly so called.
After thiswe passed several great rivers, and two
dreadsul deserts, one of which we were sixteen days pas-
sing over, and which, as I said, was to be called No
Man's land; and on the the 13th of April, we came to
frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the sirst
city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be called,
that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Ar-
gun, being on the west side of the river Argun.
I could not but discover an insinite satissaction, that I
was now arrived in, as I called it a christian country;
or, at least, in a country governed by christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just de-
serve the name of christians; yet fcch they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their way. . It would cer-
tainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have
done, and who had any power of reflection; I say, it
would occur to him to reflect, what a blessing it is to
be brought into the world where the name of God,
and of a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored,
and not where the people, given up by heaven to
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate them-
selves to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements,
horrible shaped animals, and statues, or images of
monsters. Not a town or city we passed through but
had their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and
ignorant people worshipping even the works of their
own hands.
Now we came where, at least, a sace of the christian
worship appeared, where the knee was bowed to Je-
sus; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God
was called upon, and adored; and it made the very
recesses of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave
Scotch Merchant I mentioned above, with my sirst ac-
knowledgment of this; and, taking him by the hand,
1 laid to him, blessed be God, we are once again come
among christians. He smiled, and answered, do not
rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are
tiut an odd sort of christians; and but for the name of
it, you may see very little of the substance for some
months farther of our journey.
Well, said I, but still'tis better than paganism, and
-worshipping of devils. Why, I'll teli you, said he;
-except the Ruffian soldiers in garrisons , and a sew of
'the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, ali the- rest:
of this country, for above a- thousand miles farther, ii
inhabited by the worst, and most ignorant of pagans;
and so indeed we found it.
• -. We were- now launched into the greatest piece of solid
earth, if I understand any thing of the surface of the
globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
: we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea, east-
ward; we had at least two thousand to the bottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; snd almost three thousand
-miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the British-
and French channels; we had sull sive thousand mile*
to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the frozen sea, north; nay, if some
people may be believed,,there might be no sea north-
east till we came round the pole, and consequently into
. the north west, and so had a continent of land into
America, no mortal knows where; though I could-
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake
-too.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good
while before we came to any considerable town, we
had nothing to observe there but this; sirst, that all the
rivers run to the east. As I understood by the charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
i plain that all those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural
t course of it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese
ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choaked up with bulrushes of a monstrous
growth, viz. three seet about, and twenty or thirty
• seet high, 1 must be allowed to fay, I believe nothing
of; but as its navigation is of no use, .because there M
no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it
belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle; so nobody that
ev«r I head of, has been curious enough either to
go down to the mouth of it in boats* or come up from
the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river running due east, in the latitude of 60 degrees,
carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and sinds
an ocean to empty itself in that latitude; so we are sure
of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of this river there are se-
veral considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north
• as the Yamonr runs east; and these are all found to join
their waters with the great rivers Tartarus, named so
from the northernmost nations Of the Mogul Tartars,
who, the Chinese say, were the sirst Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers alledge, are the Gog and
Magog mentioned in sacred story.
The rivers running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident,
that the northern ocean bounds the land also on that
side ; so that it does not seem rational in the least to
think; that the land can extend itself to join with
America on that side, or that there is not a communi-
cation between the northern and the eastern ocean;
but of this I shall say no more; it was my observation
at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna by
easy and moderate journies, and were very visibly
obliged to the care the czar of Muscovy has taken, to
have cities and towns built in as many places as are
possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison,
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Ro-
mans in the remotest countries of their empire, some of
which I had read were particularly placed in Britain for
the security of commerce, and for the lodging of tra-
vellers; and thus it was here; for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and
governor were Ruffians, and prosessed mere pagans, sa-
crisicing to idols, and worshipping the fun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven: and not only so, but
were of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not
eat men's flesh, as our savages of America did.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite domi-
Vql.II L niea*-
nions, and a city of Tartars and Ruffians together, cal-
led Nertzinskay; in which space is a contined desert or
forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over it. In
a village, near the last of those places, I had the curi-
osity to go and see their way of living; which is most
brutish and unsusterable; they had, 1 suppose, a great
sacrisice that day ; for there stood out upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightsul as the devil;
at least as any thing we can think of to represent the
devil can be made ; it had an head certainly not so
much resembling any creature that the world ever saw;
ears as big as goats horns, and as high; eyes as big as
a crown piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill;
it was dressed up in the silthiest manner that you can
suppose; its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it; it was about eight seet
high, yet had no seet or legs, or any other proportion
of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the out-side of the vil-
lage; and when 1 came near to it, there were sixteen
or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all flat on the
ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood.
I saw no motion among them any more than if they
had been logs of wood like their idol; at sirst I really
thought they had been so; ..but when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their seet; and raised an
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased at
our disturbing them. A little way off from this mon-
ster, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers;
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, I found the; had long knives in their hands,
arid in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep
killed, and one young bullock, or steer. These, it
seems, were sacrisices to that senseless log of an idol;
and these three men priests belonging to it; and the se-
venteen
venteen prostrated wretches were the people who
brought the offering, and were making their prayers to
that stock.
I consess I was more moved at their stupidity, and
this brutish worship of an hobgoblin, than ever I was-
at any thing in my lise; to see God's most glorious
and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his maker, and be honoured by him;
I fay, to see it sunk and degenerated to a degree so
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightsul no-
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and
that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought
up in hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, en-
vying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surseiting,
sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
shock nature itself.
But what signisied all the astonishment and reflection
of thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my
eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage; ar.d
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by
one of the horns; and one of our men that was with
me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and
pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three'
hundred people came about my ears, so that 1 was
glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
again.
Our caravan rested three nights at this town, which
was about four miles off, in TSrder to provide some
horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way,
L 2 and
and our long march over the last desert; so we had
some leisure here to put my design in execution. I
communicated my project to the Scots merchant of
Moscow, of whose courage I had a sufficient testimony,
as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had since thought, that human nature
cftuld be so degenerate. I told him, I was resolved, if
I could get but four or sive men well armed to go with
me, to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol: to~
let them see, that it had no power to help itself,
and consequently could not be an object of wor.hip, or
to be prayed to, much less help them that offered sacri-
sices to it.
He laughed at me ; said he, Your zeal may be good;
but what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
said I, to vindicate the honour of God, which is in-
sulted by this devil-worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the honour of God? said he, while the people
will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them too, and tell them so; and
then they will sight you too, I will assure you; for
they are desperate sellow:, and that especially in de-
sence of their idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons in writing,
in their own language? Writing! said he, why there
is not in sive nations of them, one man that knows any
tiling of a letter, or how to read a word in any langu-
age, or in their own. Wretched ignorance! said I
to him ; however, I have a great mind to do it; perhaps
nature may draw inserences from it to them, to let them
fee how brutish they are to.worship such horrid things.
Lo k you, Sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so
warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected, by force, to the czar of Muscovy's do-
minions ; and is you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nenzinskay, and
complain, and demand satissaction: and if he cannot
give liiem satissaction, «i is ten to one but they revolt, and
it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in the
country.
2 This,
Thi-, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for
a w.hile; but I harped upon the same string still; and
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met
me by accident in our walk about the town, and de-
sired to speak with me: I believe, said he, I have put
you off your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since; for I abhor the idol and idola-
try as much as you can do. Truly, said 1, you hav„
put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you have
not put it all out of my thoughts; and, I believe, I
shall do it still before I quit this place, though I were
to be delivered up to them for satissaction.. No, no,
said he ; God forbid they should deliver you. up to such a
crew of monsters! they shall not do that neither;
that would be murdering you indeed. Why, said I,
how would they use me i Use you! said he; I'll tell
you how they served a poor Ruffian, who affronted them
in their worship just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that
he could not run away; they took him and stripped him
stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol mon-
ster, and stood all round him, and shot as many arrows
into him as would stick over his whole body ; and then
they burnt him and all the arrows sticking in him-, as a
sacrisice to the idol. And was this the same idol?
said I, Yes, said he, the very same. Well, saia I,
J will tell you a story : so I related the story of cur men
at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the vil-
lage there, and killed man, woman, and.child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, I added, that I thought we ought
to do so to this village,
He listened Very attentively to the story; but when
I talked of doing to to that village, said he, you mis-
take very much; it wa-s not this village, it was almost
a hundred miles from this place; but it was the same
idol, for they carry him about in procession all- over
the country. Well, said I, then that idol ought to be
punished for it; and it shall, said I, if I live this night
out.
L 3 In
In a word, sinding me resolute, he liked the design,
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go
with me; but he would go sirst, and bring a stout sel- ,.
low, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; and'
one, said he, as famous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these. In
a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he ca'led captain Richardson; and I gave him a sull
account of what I had seen, and also of what I intend-
ed; and he told me readily, he would go with me, if
it cost him his lise. So we agreed to go, only we three.
I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner; bat he de-
clined it. He laid, he was ready to aslist me to the ut-
most, and upon all occasions, for my desence; but that
this was an adventure quite out of his way: so, I say,
we resolved upon our work, only we three, and my
man-servant, and to put it in execution that night about
midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being
to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his power; the Scots merchant,
as steady in his resolution to enterprize it, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-
skins, and a bonnes, with a bow and arrows, and had
provided the fame for himself and his countryman, that
the people, if they saw us, should not be able to deter-
mine who we were.
All the sirst night we spent in mixing up some- com-
bustible matter with aqa-vitæ, gunpowder, and such
other materials as we could get; and, having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night,
and found that the people had not the least jealousy of
danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy ; yet
the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol
stood just in the fame posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest , only,
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where
we
247
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butch-
ers, we saw a light, and, going up close to the door,
we heard people talking, as is' there were sive or six
of them; we concluded therefore, that if we set wild-
sire to the idol, these men would come out immediate-
ly, and run up to the place to rescue it from the de-
struction that we intended for it: and what to do with
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it
away, and setting sire to it at a distance; but when
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second
Scotsman was for setting sire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out; but I could not join with that;
I was against killing them, if it was impossible to be
avoided.' Well then, said the Scots merchant, 1 will
tell you what we will do; we will try to take them pri-
soners, tie their hands, and make them stand and fee
their idol destroyed.
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough
about uc, which we used to tie our sire-works together
with; so we resolved to attack these people sirst, and
with as little noise as we could. The sirst thing we did,
we knocked at the door, when one of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him and led him to
the idol, were we gagged him, that he might not make
a noise; tied his seet also together, and left him on the
ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was;
but we waited so long till the third man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked again
gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
Served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some distance from one another; when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the door, ^nd
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant
went in after him, and taking out a composition we
L4 had
had matk, that would o»ly smcke and stink, he set
sire to it, and threw it in among them; by that time
the other Scotchman and my man taking charge of the
two men already bound, and tied together allo by the
arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there,
to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste
back to us.
When the Furze we had thrown in had silled the hut
with so much smoke that they were almost suffocated,
we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we
found there were but four people left, who, it seems,
were two men and two women, and, as we supposed,
had been about some of their diabolic sacrisices. They
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to
sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither,
for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
ether, and all without any noise. J should have said,
we brought them out of the house, or hut, sirst; for,
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more
than they were. When we had done this, we carried
them altogether to the idol; when we came there we
sell to work with him; and sirst we daubed him all
over, and his robes also, with tar, and such other
siuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brim-
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth
sull of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great
piece of wildsire in his bonnet; and then sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him,
we looked aboHt to see if we could sind any thing else
to help to burn him: when my Scotsman remember-
ed, that by the tent, or hut, where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes
I do not remember: away he and the other Scotsman
ran, and setched their arms sull of that. When we had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their seet, and ungagged their
mouths, and made them stand up, and let diem just
before their monstrous idol, and then set sire to the
whole.
We
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it, and, in a word, till we saw
it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be soon
quite consumed, so we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said: No, we must not go ; for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the
sire, and burn themselves with the idol; so we resolved
to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then we
came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our scllow tra-
vellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;
nor could any man suggest that we had been any-
. where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed
to be to sit themselves for the fatigues of that day's
journey.
But it did not end so; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage, but of an hundred more, for aught I know, to
the town gates; and, in a most outrageous manner, de-
manded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaungu ; such an hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped : the people of Nert-
zinskay were at sirst in a great consternation: for, they
said, the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and
that in a sew days more, they would be i00,000
strong.
The Ruffian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of its and that there
had not a foul of his garrison been abroad: that it
could not be from any body there: and if they would
let him know who it was, they should be exemplarily
punished. They returned, haughtily, That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-'Chi-Thaungu, who
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to
offer violence to his image, but some Christian mis-
creant: so they called them, it seems, and they there-
I> 5 fore
fore denounced war against him, and all the Ruffians,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or to have any cause of war alledged to be given
by him, the czar having straightly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave
them still all the good words he could; at last he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morning, and, perhaps, it was some of them who had
done them this injury; and that, if they would be sa-
tissied with that, he would send after them, to enquire
into it. This seemed to applease them a little ; and ac-
cordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a
particular account how the thing was; intimating with-
al, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should
make their escape; but that, whether they had done it
or no, we should make all the haste forward that was
possible ; and that in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
any thing of the matter ; and, as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as
asked us the question; however, the captain of the ca-
ravan, for the time, took the hint that the governor
gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and
two nights without any considerable stop, and then
we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did we make
any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the czar of Muscovy's colonies,
and where we expected we should be sase; but it is to
be observed, that here we began, for two or three
dsys march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of
which I shall say more in its place; and which if we
had now been upon it, it is more than probable, we had
been all destroyed. It was the second day's march
from Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at
a great distance, some of our people began to be sen-
sible we were pursued; we had entered the desert, and
had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, when
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on
the other side of the lake to the north, we travelling
west. We observed they went away west, as we did;
but had supposed we should have taken that side of the
lake, whereas we very happily took the south side; and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to
the river Udda; this is a very great river when it passes
. • farther north; but when we came to it, we found it nar-
row and fordable.
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us,
towards the dusk of the evening. We had, to our
great satisfaction, justpitched upon a place for our camp
which was very convenient for the night; for as we
were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of
it, that was above sive hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but
the city Jarawena, which we had yet two days march
to; the desert, however, had some sew woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow streight between two
small, but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the
night.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued
for; but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go
about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always
fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to
be pursued.
But we had this night, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay between
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our
front; so that we could not be surrounded or attacked
any way, but in our front or rear; we took care also to
make our front as strong as we' coujd, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on the
inside of the river, and we selled some trees in our
rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy w^ upon us before we had sinished our situa-
tion: they did not come on us like thieves, as we
L 6 expects'
expected, but sent three messengers to ns, to demand
the men to be delivered to them, that had abused their
priefls, and burnt their god Cham-Chi Thaungu, that
they might burn them with sire; and, upon this, they
said, they would go away, and do us no sarther harm,
otherwise they would burn us all with sire. Our men
looked Very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in
their saces, but, nobody was the word,\ nobedy did it.
The leader of the caravan sent word, he was well as-
sured it was not done b) any of our camp; that we
were peaceable merchants travelling on our business;
that v. e had done no harm to them, or to any one else;
and therefore they must look sarther sor their enemies,
who had injured them, for we were not the people; so
desired them not to disturb us; for if they did, we should
desend ourselves.
They were sar from being satissied with this for an
answer, and a great crowd of them came down in the
morning by break of day, to our camp; but seeing
us in such an advantageous situation, they durst come no
sarther than the brook in our front, where theri
stood, and shewed us such a number, as, indeed, ter-
risied us very much; for those that spoke least of them
spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked
at us a while, and then setting up a great howl, they
let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well
enough fortisied for that, for we wefe sheltered under
our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of
us was hurt.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to
our right, and expected them on the rear, when a
cunning sellow, a Cossack as they call them, of Jara-
wena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader
of the caravan, said to him, I will send all these people
away to Sibeilka ; this was a city four or sive days
journey, at least, to the south, and rather behind
u». So he takes his bow and arrows; and, getting
on horseback,Tie rides away from our rear directly, as
it were, back to Nertzinskay; after this, he takes a
great circuit about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them
a long
a long story, that the people who had burnt their Cham-
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them; that is to say, Christiana;
and that they were resolved to burn the god Seal Isarg,
belonging to the Tonguses.
As this sellow was a mere Tartar, and persectly spoke
their language, he counterseited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they drove, in a most vio-
lent hurry, to Sibeilka, which it seems, was sive days
jsurney to the south, and in less than three hours they
were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any-
more of them, or ever knew whether they went to that
other place called Sibeilka, or no.
So we passed sasely on to the City of Jarawena,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites ; and there we
rested sive days, the caravan being exceedingly satigued
with the last day's march, and with want of rest in the
night.
From this city we had a frightsul desert, which held
u* three and twenty days march. We surnished our-
selves with some tents here, for the better accommodating
ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro-
cured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country, for
carrying our water and provisions; and these carriages
were our defence every night round our little camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able
to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after
this long journey; for, in this desert, we saw neither
house or tree, or scarce a bush; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the sable-hunters, as they call them; these are
all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country
is a part; and they srequently attack small caravans:
but we saw no numbers of them together. I was cu-
rious to see the sable-skins they catched: but I could
never speak with any of them; for they durst not come
near us, neither durst we straggle from our company to
go near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a
country pretty well inhabited; that is to say, we found
towns and castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with
garrison'
ADVENTURES OF
garrisons of stationary soldiers to protect the caravans,
and desend the country against the Tarters, who would
otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
Czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are
any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments of the
garrison are always sent to see travellers sase from sta-
tion to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots
merchant who was acquainted with him, ofsered us a
guard of sifty men if we thought there was any danger,
to the next station.
I thought long before this, that as we came nearer
to Europe, we should sind the country better peopled,
and the people more civilized; but I found myself mis-
taken in both, for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses
to pass through ; where we saw the same tokens of pa-
ganism and barbarity, or worse than before; only as
they were conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely re-
duced, they were not so dangerous ; but for the rudeness
of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in the
world ever went beyond them. They are clothed all in
the skins of beasts, and their houses are built of the
fame. You know not a man from a woman, neither by
the ruggednefs of their countenances, or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with
snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults,
which have cavities or caves going from one to ano-
ther.
If the Tartars had their Cham Chi Thaungu for a
whole village, or country, these had idols in every hut,
and every cave ; besides, they worship the stars, the sun,
the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thing that
they do not understand, and they understand bat very
little; so that almost every element, every uncommon
thing, sets them a sacrisicing.
But I am no more to describe people than countries,
any farther than my own.story comes to be concerned in
them. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all
this country, which, I reckon was, from the desert
which I spoke of last, at least, four hundred miles, half
of
255
of it being another desert, which took us up twelve
days severe travelling, without house, tree or bush ; but
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well
water as bread. After we were out of this desert, and
had travelled two days, we came to Janezay, a Mus-
covite city or station, on the great river Janezay. This
river, they told us, parted Europe from Asia, tho' our
map-makers, as I am told, do not agree to it; however,
it is certainly the eastern boundary of the antient Sibe-
ria, which now makes a province only of the vast Mus-
covite empire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole
empire of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still
prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the
country between the river Oby, and the river Janezay,
is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the
remotest of the Tartars, nay, as any nation, for aught I
know, in Asia, or America. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite governors, whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the pagans are not much
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being under the
Muscovite government; which they acknowledged was
true enough, but, they said, it was none of their busi-
ness; that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian,
or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by
sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they
added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not so much the concern of their monarch,
to make the people christians, as it was to make them
subjects.
From this river, to the great river Oby, we crossed 3
i wild uncultivated country; I cannot say'tis a barbarous
foil; 'tis only barren of people, and good manage-
ment; otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitsul,
and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in
it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them
from Russia; for this is the country I mean on both
sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals,
that are not put to death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to impossible they should ever come
away. *
I have
I have nothing material to say of my particular
affairs, till I came to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia.,
where I continued iome time on the following occa-
sion.
We had been now almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and *inter began to come on apace: whereupon
my partner and I called a council about our particular
affairs in which we found it proper, considering that
we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, to
consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
fledges and rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the
•winter-time : and, indeed, they have sucli things, as it
would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by
which means the Ruffians travel more in the winter tbaa
they can in summer; because in these fledges they are
able to run night and day: the snow being frozen, is
one universal covering to nature, by which the hills,
the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all Smooth, and
hard as a stone; and they run upon the sursace, without
any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey as
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route two ways: either I must go on as the ca-
ravan went, till I came to Jarislaw, and then go off
west for Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so either
by sea or land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell
my China cargo to good advantage,- or I must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence
I had but six days by water to Arch-Angel, and from
thence might be sure of shipping, either to England,
Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these journies in the winter-
would have been preposterous: for as to Dantzick, the
Balttck would be frozen up, and I could not get pas-
sage: and to go by land in those countries, was sar
less sase than among the Mogul Tartars: likewise to
Arch-Angel, in October all the ships would be gone
from thence, and even the merchants, who dwell
there in summer, retire south to Moscow in the winter,
when the ships are gone: so that I should have no-
thing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scar-
city of provisions, and must lie there in an empty town
all the winter; so that, upon the whole, I thought it
much my better way to let the caravan go, and to make
provision to winter where I was, viz. at Tobolflci, in
Siberia, in the latitude of sixty degrees, where I was
sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country afforded,
a warm house, with suel enough, and excellent com-
pany; of all which I shall give a sull account in its
place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved istand, where I never selt cold, except when I
had my ague ; on the contrary, I had much to do tp
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any
sire 'but without doors, and my necessity, in dress-
ing my food, &c. Now I made me three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them to hang down
to the seet, and button close to the wrists, and all
these lined with surs, to make them sufficiently
warm.
As to-* warm house, I must consess, I greatly dis-
like our way in England, of making sires in every
Toom in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the sire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a surnacfe, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a'stove; the sunnel to carry the smoke went up one
way, the door to come at the sire went in ano-
ther, and all the rooms were kept equally warm,
but no sire seen; like as they heat the bagnios in Eng-
land.
By this means we had always the fame climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within;
and yet we saw no sire, nor were ever incommoded with
any smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should
be possible to meet with good company here, in a coun-
try so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of
Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within but a very
sew degrees of Nova Zembla.
P
But this being the country where the state criminals
of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished;
this city was sull of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, co-
lonels, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry,
soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the fa-
mous Prince Galilfken, or Galoffken, and his son, the
old General Robostislcy, and several other persons of note
and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, whom, neverthe-
less, 1 parted with here, I made an acquaintance
ADVENTURES OF
of the sirst rank; and from these, in the long winter-
nights in which I stayed here, I received several
agreeable visits. It was talking one night with a cer-
tain prince, one of the banished ministers of state be-
longing to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my
particular case began. He had been telling me abun-
dance of sine things, of the greatness, the magnisi-
cence, and dominions, and the absolute power of
the emperors of the Rufsians. I interrupted him, and
told him, I was a greater and more powersul prince
than ever the Czar of Muscovy was, though my domi-
nions were not so large, or my people so many. The
Russian Grandee looked a little surprised, and sixing
his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I
meant.
I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, I told him, I had the absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects:
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not
one person disaffected to my government or to my
person, in all my dominions. He shook his head at
that, and said, There, indeed, I outdid the Czar of
Muscovy. I told him, that all the lands in my king-
dom were my own, and all my subjects were not only
my tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all
sight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant,
for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so uni-
versally beloved,- and yet so horribly seared, by his
subjects.
After
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for a while, I opened the case, and told them
the story at large of my living in the island, and how
I managed both myself and the people there that were
under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially
the prince, who told me with a sigh, that the true
greatness of lise was to be master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a state of lise as
mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found
more f elicity in the retirement he seemed to be banish-
ed to there, than ever he found in the highest autho-
rity he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar: that
the height ofihuman wisdom was to bring our tem-
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storm with-
out. When he came sirst hither, he said, he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from
his back, as others had done before him; but a little
time and- consideration had made him look into him-
self, as well as round himself, to things without:
that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal lise, and
how little this world was concerned in its true seli-
city, was persectly capable of making a selicity for
itself, sully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own
best ends and desires, with but very little assistance
from the world; that air to breathe in, food to sus-
tain lise, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exer-
cise, in order to health, compleated, in his opinion, all
that the world could do for us: and though the great-
ness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had
enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was agree-
able to us, yet he observed, that all those things chiefly
gratisied the coarsest of our affections: such as our
ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our va-
nity, and our sensuality; all which were, indeed, the
mere product of the worst part of man, were in them-
selves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all man-
ner of crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those virtues that constituted us
wise men, or of those graces which distinguished us as
Christians : that being now deprived of all the sancied
selicity, which he enjoyed in the sull exercise of all
those vices, he said, he was at leisure to look upon the
dark side of them, where he found all manner of defor-
mity ; and was now convinced, that virtue only make*
a man truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in
the way to a superior happiness in a suture state, and in
this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment
than all their enemies were, who had the sull possession
of all the wealth and power that they (the banished) had
left behind them.
Nor, sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politically
by the necessity of my circumstances, which some call
miserable ; but if I know any thing of myself, I would
not go back, no, not though my master, the Czar, mould
call me, and ofser to reinstate me in all my former gran-
deur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than 1 be-
lieve my sijul, when it shall be delivered from this
prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious
state beyond lise, would come back to the goal of flesh
and blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven to deal
in the dirt and grime of human affairs.
He spake this with so much warmth in his temper,
so much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which
were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident
it was the true sense of his soul; and, indeed, theie
was no room to doubt his sincerity.
J told him, 1 once thought myself a kind os a mo-
narch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, but that I } Dught he was not a monarch
only, but a great conquerer; for that he that has got a
victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the
absolute dominion over himself, and whose reason
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he
that conquers a city. But, my lord, said I, shall I take
theliberty to ask you a question? With all my heart,
said he. If the door of your liberty was opened, said
I, would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself from
this exile?
Hold,
Hold, said he, your question is subtle, and requires
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere an-
swer? and I'll give it you from the bottom of my
heart.' Nothing that 1 know of in this world would
move me to deliver myself from the state of banish-
ment, except these two: First, the enjoyment of my
relations; and, secondly, A little warmer climate; but
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the
court, -the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister
of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures,
that is to fay, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me
to all he banished me from: I protest, if I know
myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace of
Moscow.
But, my lord, slid I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore, but you may be absent too from some of the con-
eniencies of lise; your estate, perhaps, consiscated,
and your effects plundered f and the supplies left you
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
lise.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a lord,
or a prince, &c. So, indeed, I am; but you are now
to consider me only as a man, an human creature, not
at all distinguished from another : and so I can suffer no
want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dis-
tempers. However, to put the question out of dispute;
you see our manner; we are in this place sive persons of
rank; we live persectly retired, as suited to a state of
banishment; we have something rescued from the ship-
wreck of our fortunes, which ktrps us from the mere
necessity of hunting for our foou, but the poor soldiers
who are here, without that heip, live in as much plenty
as we. They go into the wood.-, and catch fables and
foxes ; the labour of a month will maintain them a year;
and' as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard
to get sufficient to ourselves; So that objection is out of
doors.
f I have
I have no room to give a sull account of the moil
agreeable conversation I had with his truly great
man; and in all which he shewed, that his mind was so
inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so sup-
ported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the
fame to the last, as will appear in the story I am going
to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dark dreadsul
winter I thought it to be; the cold was so intense,
that I could not so much as look abroad without be-
ing wrapt in surs, and a mask of sur before, my face,
or rather a hood, with only an hole for breath, and
two for sight. The little day-light we had, was, as
we reckoned, for three months, not above sive hours a
day, and six at most; only that the snow lying on the
ground continually, and the weather clear, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather
starved) under ground; and, as, for our servants (for
we hired servants here to look after our horses and
selves), we had every now and then their singers and toes
to thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify and
fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of
d eer, dried and cured in the season ; good bread enough,
ut baked as biscuits; dried sish of several sorts, and
ome flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes, which is r/retty
good beef. All the store of provision for the winter
are laid up in the summer, and well cured; our drink
was water mixed with aqua vitae instead of brandy;
and, for a treat, mead instead of wine; which however,
they have excellent good. The hunters, who ventur-
ed abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh
venison, very fat and good : and sometimes bears flesh,
but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends as above;
and, in a word, we lived very chearsully and well, all
things considered.

It was now March, and the days grown- consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerable ; so
other travellers began to prepare fledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being sixed, as I have said, for Arch-
Angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well, that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world till
Mayor June: and that if I was there at the beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any ships would.be
ready to go away ; and therefore, I fay, I made no
haste to be gone, as others did? in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away
before me". It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscow for trade, viz. to carry furs, and buy
necessaries with them, which they bring back to sur-
nish their shops; also others went on the fame errand
to Arch-Angel; but then they also, being to come
back again above eight hundred miles, went out all
before me.
In short, about the latter end of May, I began to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it
occurred to me, that seeing all these people were ba-
nished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet,
when they came there, were at liberty to go whither
they would; why did they not then go away to any
part of the world whereever they thought sit! and I be-
gan to examine what should hinder them from making
such an attempt.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon
that subject with the person I have mentioned, who
answered me thus: Consider, sirst, sir, said he, the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especially, said he, the generality of the people
who are banished hither. We are surrounded, said he,
with stronger things than bars and bolts; on the
north side is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never
sailed, and boat never swam; neither, if we had both,
could we know whither to go with them. Every other
way, said he, we have above a thousand miles to pass
through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways ut-
terly impassable, except by the roads made by the go-
i vernmen'
vemment, and through the towns garrisoned by his
troops; so that we could neither pals undiscovered by
the road, or subsist any other way; so that is in vain to
attempt it.
s was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
were in prison, every jot as secure, as if they had been
locked up in the callle of Moscow: however, it came
into my thoughts, that I might certainly be made an
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per-
son, and that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going t6 Moscow, but to Arch-Angel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in trie
desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-AngeJ,
where I could immediately secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off sase along with
me; and, as to his subsistence, and other particulars,
that should be my care, till he should better iupply him-
self.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly,
on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
very sace, that what 1 laid put his spirits into an ex-
ceeding serment; his colour frequently changed, his
eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might
be even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
immediately answer me, when 1 had done, and, as it
were, expected what he would say to it; and after he
had paired a liitie, he embraced me, and said, how
unhappy are we! unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares to
us, and we are made tempters of one another! My dear
friend, laid he, your ofser is so sincere, has such kind-
ness in it, is 10 disinterested in itlelf, and is so calculat-
ed for my advantage, that I must have very little
knowledge of the world, if I did not both wonder at
it, and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me
to you for it: But did you believe I was sincere in
what I have so often said to you of my contempt of
the world? Did you believe I spoke my very soul
to you, and that I had really maintained that degree
of
/
J- of selicity here, that had placed me above all that the
-' world could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back, if I
was recalled even to be all that once I was in the court,
and with the savour of the Czar, my master? Did you
jj believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, or did you
think me to be a boasting hypocrite? Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I
soon after perceived, that he stopped because his spirits
were in motion,; his heart was sull of struggles, and
he could not go on. I was, 1 consess, astonished at the
thing, as well as at the man, and I used some argu-
ments with him to urge him to set himself free: that
he ought to look upon this as a door opened by Hea-
- ven for his deliverance, and a summons by Providence,
2 who has the care and good disposition of all events, to
ar do himself good, and to render himself usesul in the
] world.
He had by this time recovered himself: How do
'you know, sir, said he, warmly, but that instead of a
summons from heaven, it may be a seint of another
r instrument, representing, in all the alluring colours, to
me, the shew of selicity as a deliverance, which may
in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin?
Here I am free from the temptation of returning to
my former miserable greatness; there I am not sure,
but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and
luxury, which I kuow remain in my nature, may revive
and cake root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me;
and-then the happy prisoner, whom you see now mas-
ter of his foul's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of
his own senses, in the sull of all personal liberty. Dear
. sir, let.me remain in this blessed consinement, banished
from the crimes of lise, rather than purchase a shew
of freedom at the expence of the liberty of my reason,
and at the expence of the suture happiness which now
I have in my view, but shall then, 1 sear, quickly lose
sight of; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have
passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow
me as any man; O be not my friend and my tempter
both together! \
Vol. II. M If
If I was surprised before, I was quits' dumb nos,
and stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed, ad mi:
what 1 saw; the struggle in his soul \ra- so great, tha
though the weather was extremely cold, it put him inn
a most violent sweat, and I sound he wanted to give
vent to his mind; so I said a word or two, that I tvoulJ
leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again; aci
then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours utter, I heard somebody at or nea;
the door of the room, and 1 was going to open the door;
but he had opened it, and come in: My dear friend,
said he, you had almost overset me, but 1 am recovered:
do not take it ill that 1 do not close with your offer; /
assure you, it is not for want of a sense of the kindnesi
of it in you; and I come to make the most sincere ac-
knowledgment of it to you; but, 1 hope, I have got
the victory over myself.
My lord, said I, I hope you are fully satisfied1, fAat
you did not resist the call of heaven. Sir, said he, if it
had been from heaven, the same power would have in-
fluenced me to accept it; but, J hope, and am fully
satissied, that it is from heaven that I decline it; and
1 have an insinite satissaction in the parting, that yon
(hall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-
fession to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
Ihould always acknowledge it, and with that he offered
me a very fine present of sables, too much, indeed,
for me to accept from a man in his circumstances; and
1 would have avoided them, but he would not be re-
. fused.
The n xt morning I sent my servant to his lord-
sh p, wit a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
did not all weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts; but
were sar short of the value of his sables, which, in-
deed, when I came to England, I found worth near tw o
hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece
of the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which
had a sine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which
I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take
any more; and sent word by my servant, that he de-
sired to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew- what
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move
him any more in that affair-; but that, since I made
such a generous offer to him, he asked me, if I had
kindness enough to offer the same to another person-
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
share of concern. I told him, that I could not say I
inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have been
glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance;
however, if he would please to name the person to me,
1 would give him my answer, and hoped he would
not be displeased with me, if he was with my answer.
He told me, it was only his son, who, though I had
not seen, yet was in the same condition with himself,
and above two hundred miles from him, on the other
side the Oby -, but that, if I consented, he would send
for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it:
I made some ceremony in letting him understand, that
it was wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, 1 would shew my respect to him, by
my concern for his son: but these things are too te-
dious to repeat here. He ssnt away the next day for
his son, and in about twenty davs he came back with
the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with
very rich surs, ind which, in the whole, amounted to
n very great value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there
the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper
for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, sine ermins, and such other surs that are
very riA; I say, I had bought them in that city so
M 2 exchag
exchange for some of the goods brought from China j in
particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I fold
the greatest part here ; and the rest afterwards at Arch-
angel, for a much better price than I could have done at
London; and rliy partner, who was sensible of the pro-
fit, and whole business mint particularly than mine,
was merchandize, was nu;;htiiy pleased with our ltay,
cn account os the traffic we made here.
It was in the beginning of June, when I left this re-
mote place, a city, ] believe, little heard of in tiie
wojM; and, indeed, it is so sar out of the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being
only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of
them passed for mine, though my new guest was pro-
prietor cf eleven of them. It was mcli natural also,
that I should take more servants with me than I had be-
fore, and the young lord passed for my steward; what
great man 1 passed for myself I know not, neither did
it concern me to enquire. We had here the worst and
the largest desert to pass ever that we met with in all
the journey, indeed, I call it the worst, because the
way was very deep in some place?, and very uneven
in others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
sear, and that they never came on this side the river
Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it
otherwise.
My young lord had with him a saithsul Musccvne
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
sectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
by private roads, that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities upon the great road, such
as Tumen, Soloy-Kamoskoy, and several others; be-
cause the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there are
very curious and strict in their observations upon travel-
lers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of
note should make their escape that way into Muscovy;
but by this means, as we were kept out of the cities,
so our whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged
to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have
hud good accommodation in the cities on the way:

this
his the young lord was so sensible of, that he would
not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several
cities on the way; but lay abroad hiniielf, with his
servant, in the woods, and met us always at the ap-
pointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the liver
Kama, which, in those parts, is the boundary between
Europe and Asia ; and she sirst city on the European side
was. called Soloy-i^amcskoy, which is as much ar to fay,
the great city oh the river Kama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their
manners, their habit, their religion, and their busi-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
sert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, but not above two hundred
miles over where we passed it; so, till we came past
that horrible place, we found very little difference be-
tween that country and the Mogul Tartar/; the people
mostly Pagans, and little better than the savages of
America ;. their houses and towns sull of idols, and
their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities
as above, and the villages near them; where they
are Christians, as they call themselves of the Greek
church; but even these have their religion mingled
with so many reliques of superstition, that it is scarce
to be known in some places for mere sorcery and
witchcraft.
Ln passing fhis sorest, I thought, indeed, we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped,
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murdered by a troop of thieves; of what coun-
try they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachj,
a kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of
the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were
the' fable Jumters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to
know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows
and arrows, and were at sirst about sive and forty in
number; they came so near to us, as within about-
two musquet soot; and, asking no questions, they sur-
rounded us 'with their horse, and looked very earnestly
upon us twice; at length they placed themselves just
in our way; upon which we drew up in a little line
M 3 before'
before our camels being not'above sixteen men in all;
and being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the
Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who they
were; his master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were
a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came up
near them with a flag of truce, and called to them;
but though he spoke several of their languages, or dia-
lects of languages father, he could not ustderstan- a
word they said; however, after some signs to him not
to come nearer to them at his peril; so he said he un-
derstood them to mean, ofsering to shoot at him if he
advanced; the sellow came back no wiser than he went,
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be
some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hords;
and that there must be more of them on the great desert,
though he never heard that ever any of them were seen
so far north before.'
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left hand, at about a
quarter of a mile's distance, a lhtle grove or clump
of trees, which stood close together, and very near
the road; I immediately resolved we would advance
to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we
eould there; for, sirst, I considered that the trees would
in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a
body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who
proposed it: and who had this excellency attending
him, namely, that he was always readiest and most apt
to direct and encourage us in cases of the most dan-
ger. We advanced immediately with what speed we
could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us.
When we came thither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy springy piece of ground,
and, on the other side, a very great spring of water,
which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a
little farther joined by another of the like bigness: and
was, in short, the head or source of a considerable ri-
ver, called afterwards the Wirtska; the trees which
'grew-
grew about this spring, were not in all above two hun
dred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick ; so
that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves persectly
sase from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked
us on foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with
indefatigable application, cut down great arms of the
trees, and kid them' hanging, not cut quite off, from
one tree to another; so that he made a continued sence
almost round us.
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer to.
iiir; when about two hours before night, they came
down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some more
of the fame, so that they were near fourscore horse,
whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half a shot of our
little wood, when we sired one musquet without ball,
and called to them in the Ruffian tongue, to know what
they wanted, and bid them keep off; bur, as if they
knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double sury directly up to the wood-side, not imagining
we were so barricadoed, that they could not break in;
our old pilot was our captain, as well as he had been-;
our engineer; and desired of us, not to sire upon them
till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure
to kill; and that when we did sire we mould be sure.
to take good aim. We bade him give the word of com-
mand; which he delayed so long, that they were, some
of them, within two pikes length of us when we
sired.
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so
sure) that we killed fourteen of them at the sirst volley,
and wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two
or three bullets a piece at least.
They were terribly surprised with our sire, and re-
treated immediately about one hundred rods from us %j
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and, seeing
them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught
tour- or sive of their horses, whose riders, we sup-
3- posed.
1 posed, were killed; and, coming up to the dead, we
could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not
from what country, or how they came to make an excur-
sion such an unusual length.
About an hour aster, they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where
else they might break in; but sinding us always ready
to sace them, they went osf again, and we resolved not
to stir from the place for that night.
We slept a little, you may be sure ; but spent the most
part of the night in strengthening our situation, and
barricadoing rne entrances intotht wood ; and, keeping
a strict watc'i, we waited for day-light, and, when it
came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were dilcouraged with
the reception they had met with, were now increased to
no less than three hundred, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp they had pitched, was upon the
open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us.
We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery ; and now,
I consess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The loss of my essects did not lie so near me (though
they were very considerable) as the thoughts of salling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of
my journey, after so many difficulties and hazard
as I had gone through; and even in sight of our
port, where we expected sasety and deliverance. As
for my partner, he was raging; he declared, that to
lose his goods would be his ruin; and he would rather
die than be starved; and he was for sighting to the last
drep.
The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed it-
self, was for sighting to the last also; and my old pilot
was of the opinion we were able to resist them- all, in
the situation we then were in ; and thus we spent the day
in debates of what we should do ; but, towards evening,
we found that the number of out enemies still encreas-
ed: perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for
prey, he sirst had sent out scouts to call for help, and
to acquaint them of their booty; and we did not know
but by the morning they might still be a greater
number;
number; so I began to enquire of those people we had
brought from Tobolski, if there was no other, or more
private ways, by which we might avoid them in the
night, and, perhaps either retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord,
told us if we designed to avoid them, and not sight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night to a way
that went north towards the river Petraz, by which he
made no doubt but we might get away, and the Tar-
tars never the wiser; but he said, his lord had told
him he would not return, but would rather chuse to sight.
I told him, he mistook his lord; for that he was' too
wise a man.to love sighting for the sake of it-; that I
knew his lord was brave enough by what he had shewed
already; but that his lord knew better, than to desire
to have seventeen or eighteen men sight sive hundred,
links* an unavoidable necessity forced them.to it; and
that if he thought it possible for us to escape in tHe
night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He
answered, if his lord gave him such order, he would lose
his life if he did not perform it. We soon brought his
lord to give that order, though privately, and we im-
mediately prepared for the putting it in practice.
And sirst, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a sire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tar-
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon as
it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars,
(s^i' our guide would not stir before) having all our
horses and camels ready loaden, we followed our new
guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the pole,
or north star, all the country being level for a long
way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark all night,
but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was ra-
ther lighter than we wished it to be: but by six o'clock
next morning, we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we
found a Ruffian village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we
rested, and heard nothing of the Calmuck Tartars that
ADVENTURES OF
day. About two hours before night we set out againy
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so haltily as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river, called Kirtxa, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Russians, and very populous,
called Ozemys; there we heard, that several troops or
hords of Calmucks had been abroad upon the desert,
but that we were r.ow completely out of danger of them,
which was to our great satissaction, you may be sure.
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and,
having need enough of rest, we staid sive days; and my
partner and I agreed to-give the honest Siberian, who
brought us thither, the value of ten pistole* for his con-
ducting us. »
In sive days more we came to Veuffima, upon the -
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our travels
by land, that river being navigable in seven days pas-
sage to Archangel: from hence we came to Law-
renskoy, where the river joins, the third of July: and,
provided ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a barge,
for our convenience: we embarked the seventh, and
arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, having
been a year, sive months, and three days, on the jour-
ney, including our stay of eight monies and odd days
at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks fur
the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer,
had not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner
than any of the Engliih ships :- when, after some cor.»i-
deration, that the city of Hamburgh might happen to
be as good a market for our goods as London, we all
took freight with him: and having put jsur goods rn
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on-
board to take care of them r by which means my young
lord had a sufsicient opportunity to conceal himself,
never coming on shore again, in all the time we staid
there: and this he did, that he might not be seen in the
city, where some of the Moscow msrehants would cer-
tainly have seen and discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August
the same year : and, after no extraordinary bad voyage,
arrived
arrived in the Elbe, the i3th of September: here my
partner and I found a very good sale for our goods, as
well those of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia : and
-dividing the produce of our effects, my share amounted
R 013 IN SON -CRUSOE. 175
had sustained, and charges we had been at: only re-
membering that I had included, in this, about 600I.
worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of u., and went
*ip the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna,
where he resolved to seek protection, and where he
could correspond with those of his father's friends who
were left alive. He did not part without all the testi-
monies he could give, of gratitude for the service I had
done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince his
father.
To conclude, having staid near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence, over land to the Hague,
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London
the i0th of January, i705, having been gone from
England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I
am preparing for a longer journey than all these, hav-
ing lived 72 years a lise of insinite variety, and learned
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the
•blessing of ending our days in peace.
'/ S.
\
/
-


