THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
To WHICH IS PREFIxeld
A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
WOL. II.
EMBELLISHED WITH WOODEN CUTS,
EDINBURGH:
THE
FOR JOHN BALLANTYNE AND CO. AND BROWN AND
CROMBIE, EDINBURGH;
AND LONGMAN, HURST, REEs, AND oftME,
LONDON.
--
- 1810.
*" MN.

Tº Yoºk
PUBLIC , , ... Tº
758803 A
ASTOR, LENOx AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
R 1935 l-







5.
CONTENTS
o F
WOLUME SECON D.
CHAP. I.
Description of my situation in the Twenty-third year of my
Residence—Discover nine naked Savages round a Fire on
my side of the Island—My horror on beholding the dis-
mal work they were about—I determine on the destruc-
tion of the next Party at all risks—A Ship lost off the
Island–Go on board the Wreck, which I discern to be
Spanish–Procure a great variety of Articles from the
Wessel. . . . . . . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * . . . . . . . . . . . Page 1
CHAP. II.
Reflections—An extraordinary Dream—Discover five Ca-
noes of Savages on shore—Observe from my station two
miserable Wretches dragged out of their Boats to be de-
voured—One of them makes his Escape, and runs directly
towards me, pursued by two others—I take measures so as
to destroy his pursuers and save his life—Christen him
by the name of Friday, and he becomes a faithful and
excellent Servant................................. 24
CHAP. III.
I am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my abhor-
ii CONTENTS.
rence of the Cannibal practices of the Savages—He is
amazed at the effects of the Gun, and considers it an in-
telligent being—Begins to talk English tolerably–A
Dialogue—l instruct him in the knowledge of Religion,
and find him very apt—He describes to me some white
men who had come to his Nation, and still lived there, 50
CHAP. IV.
I determine to go over to the Continent—Friday and I
construct a Boat equal to carry twenty men–His dex-
terity in managing her—Friday brings intelligence of
three Canoes of Savages on shore—Resolve to go down
upon them—Friday and I fire upon the Wretches, and
save the life of a poor Spaniard—List of the Killed and
Wounded—Discover a poor Indian bound in one of the
Canoes, who turns out to be Friday's Father........75
CHAP. V.
I learn from the Spaniard that there were sixteen more of
his Countrymen among the Savages—The Spaniard and
Friday's Father, well armed, sail on a Mission to the
Continent—I discover an English Ship lying at anchor
off the Island—Her Boat comes on shore with three Pri-
soners—The Crew straggle into the Woods, their Boat
being aground—Discover myself to the Prisoners, who
prove to be the Captain and Mate of the Wessel, and a
Passenger—Secure the Mutineers.................. 103
CHAP. VI.
The Ship makes signals for her Boat—On receiving no an-
swer, she sends another Boat on shore—Methods by which
we secure this Boat's crew, and recover the Ship. . .129
CHAP. VII.
I take leave of the Island, and, after a long voyage, arrive
in England—Go down into Yorkshire, and find the great-
er part of my Family dead—Resolve to go to Lisbon
for information respecting my Plantation at the Brazils
—Meet an old Friend there, by whose means I become
rich—Set out for England over-land—Much annoyed by
Wolves on the road. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............. 158
CHAP. VIII.
Strange Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear—Terrible En-
gagement with a whole Army of Wolves—Arrive in
England safely, and settle my affairs there—I Marry,
and have a Family................. - - - - - - - ... ... 182
CHAP. IX.
Reflections—Unsettled state of Mind and Conversation
with my Wife thereon—Purchase a Farm in the County
of Bedford—Lose my Wife—I determine to revisit my
Island, and for that purpose settle all my affairs in Eng-
land—Description of the Cargo I carried out with me—
Save the Crew of a Wessel burnt at Sea........... .202
CHAP. X.
Steer for the West Indies—Distressing Account of a Bris-
tol Ship, the Crew of which we save in a state of Star-
vation—Arrive at my Island—Friday's joy on discover-
ing it—Affecting lnterview betwixt him and his Father
on landing—Narrative of the Occurrences on the Island
during my absence..............................234
iw
CONTENTS.
CHAP. XI.
Narrative continued—Insolence of three of the Englishmen
to the Spaniards—They are disarmed and brought to or-
der—A great body of Savages land upon the Island—
They turn out to be two adverse Nations met there by
chance—A bloody Battle betwixt them—Several of the
vanquished Party secured by the Spaniards........ .265
CHAP. XII.
Fresh broils betwixt the turbulent Englishmen and the
Spaniards—The English make a Voyage to the Main-
Land, and return in twenty-two days—Particulars of
their Voyage—Description of the Men and Women they
brought with them—The Colony discovered by an un-
lucky accident to the Savages, who invade the Island,
but are defeated..................... - - - - - - . . . . .291)
IIFE AND ADVENTURES
of
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAP. I.
Description of my situation in the Twenty-third Year
of my Residence—Discover Nine naked Savages
round a Fire on my side of the Island—My horror
on beholding the dismal Work they were about—I
determine on the destruction of the next Party, at all
risks—A Ship lost off the Island–Go on board the
Wreck, which I discern to be Spanish–Procure a
great variety of Articles from the Vessel.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have but en-
joyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been con-
tent to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
VOL. II, A
2 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid
me down and died, like the old goat, in the cave :
I had also arrived to some little diversions and
amusements, which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did before; as,
first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so
articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to
me; and he lived with me no less than six-and-
twenty years: how long he might live afterwards
I knew not; though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils, that they live an hundred years; per-
haps some of my polls may be alive there still,
calling after poor Robin Crusoe to this day; I wish
no Englishman the ill luck to come there and hear
them; but if he did, he would certainly believe it
was the devil. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no less than sixteen
years of my time, and then died of mere old age;
as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed,
to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several
of them at first, to keep them from devouring me,
and all I had; but at length, when the two old
ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild
into the woods, except two or three favourites,
which I kept tame, and whose young, when they
10
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
had any, I always drowned, and these were part of
my family: besides these, I always kept two or
three household kids about me, which I taught to
feed out of my hand; and I had also more parrots
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin
Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I
take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him : I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
names I know not, which I caught upon the shore,
and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I
had planted before my castle wall, being now
grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all
lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above,
I began to be very well contented with the life I
led, if it might but have been secured from the
dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not
be amiss for all people, who shall meet with my
story, to make this just observation from it, viz.
How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil,
which in itself we seek most to shun, and which,
when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to
us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our de-
liverance, by which alone we can be raised again
from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give
many examples of this in the course of my unac-
countable life; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my
last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said
above, in my twenty-third year; and this being the
southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was
the particular time of my harvest, and required my
being pretty much abroad in the fields; when going
out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
thorough day-light, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance
from me of about two miles, towards the end of the
island, where I had observed some savages had
been, as before; but not on the other side; but, to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had, that
if these savages, in rambling over the island, should
find my corn standing, or cut, or any of my works
and improvements, they would immediately con-
clude that there were people in the place, and
would then never give over till they found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my
castle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself
in a posture of defence; I loaded all my cannon,
as I called them, that is to say, my muskets, which
were mounted upon my new fortification, and all
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last gasp; not forgetting seriously to recommend
myself to the divine protection, and earnestly to
pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the
barbarians; and in this posture I continued about
two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the
side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up
after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top
of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat
on my belly on the ground, and began to look for
the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made; not to warm them, for they had
no need of that, the weather being extreme hot;
but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous
diet of human flesh which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide
of ebb, they seemed to me to wait the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially
seeing them come on my side the island, and so
near me too; but when I observed their coming
must be always with the current of the ebb, I
began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind,
being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety
all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before; and having made this observation, I
went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away:
I should have observed, that for an hour and more
before they went off, they went to dancing, and I
could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glasses: I could only perceive, by my nicest
observation, that they were stark naked, and had
not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not distin-
guish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at
my girdle, and my great sword by my side, with-
out a scabbard; and with all the speed I was able
to make, I went away to the hill, where I had dis-
covered the first appearance of all. As soon as I
got thither, which was not less than two hours, (for
I could not go apace, being so loaded with arms as
I was,) I perceived there had been three canoes
more of savages on that place ; and looking out
further, I saw they were all at sea together, ma-
king over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially, when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and
part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and de-
voured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who, or how
many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which
they thus made to this island were not very fre-
quent; for it was above fifteen months before any
more of them came on shore there again; that is
to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or sig-
nals of them, in all that time; for as to the rainy
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at
least not so far; yet all this while I lived uncom-
fortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions
I was in of theircoming upon me by surprise; from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is
more bitter than the suffering, especially if there
is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering
humour; and took up most of my hours, which
should have been better employed, in contriving
how to circumvent and fall upon them the very
next time I should see them; especially if they
should be divided, as they were the last time, into
two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if I kill-
ed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another,
and so another, even ad infinitum, till I should be
at length no less a murderer than they were in be-
ing men-eaters, and perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day
or other fall into the hands of those merciless crea-
tures; if I did at any time venture abroad, it was
not without looking round me with the greatest
care and caution imaginable; and now I found, to
my great comfort, how happy it was that I had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst
not, upon any account, fire my gun, especially
near that side of the island where they usually
came, lest I should alarm the savages; and if
they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come back again, with perhaps two or three
hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then
I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months
more before I ever saw any more of the savages,
and then I found them again, as I shall soon ob-
serve. It is true, they might have been there once
or twice, but either they made no stay, or, at least,
I did not hear them; but in the month of May, as
near as I could calculate, and in my four and twen-
tieth year, I had a very strange encounter with
them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen
or sixteen months interval, was very great; I slept
unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night; in the day
great troubles overwhelmed my mind: in the night
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and the rea-
sons why I might justify the doing of it. But to
wave all this for a while, it was in the middle of
May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my
poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I marked
all upon the post still ; I say, it was on the sixteenth
of May, that it blew a great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a
very foul night was after it: I know not what was
the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading
in the Bible, and taken up with serious thoughts
about my present condition, I was surprised with
the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite diffe-
rent nature from any I had met with before; for
the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of
another kind: I started up in the greatest haste im-
aginable; and in a trice clapped up my ladder to
the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me,
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of
the hill; that very moment a flash of fire bade me
listen for a second gun, which accordingly in about
half a moment I heard, and by the sound knew
that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these
guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help.
I had this presence of mind at that minute as to
think, that though I could not help them, it may
be they might help me; so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a
good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill;
the wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though
the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out,
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up,
heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all
night long, till day broke; and when it was broad
day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a
great distance at sea, full east of the island, whe-
ther a sail, or an hull, I could not distinguish, no
not with my glasses, the distance was so great, and
the weather still something hazy also: at least it
was SO (put at Sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon
perceived that it did not move; so I presently
concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and ran towards the south-east
side of the island, to the rocks, where I had been
formerly carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being per-
fectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow,
the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon
those concealed rocks which I found when I was
out in my boat; and which rocks, as they check-
ed the violence of the stream, and made a kind of
counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering then from the most desperate hopeless
condition that ever I had been in all my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.
and E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I
thought, have endeavoured to have saved them-
selves on shore by the help of their boat; but the
firing of their guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts: first, I imagined, that, upon seeing my
light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore;
but that the sea going very high, they might have
been cast away; other times I imagined, that they
might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking
of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges
men to stave, or take in pieces their boat; and some-
times to throw it overboard with their own hands;
other times I imagined, they had some other ship
or ships in company, who, upon the signals of dis-
tress they had made, had taken them up, and car-
ried them off: other whiles I fancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried
away by the current that I had been formerly in,
were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps they might by this time think of starving,
and of being in a condition to eat one another.
All these were but conjectures at best; so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to
God, who had so happily and comfortably provi-
ded for me in my desolate condition; and that of two
ships companies, who were now cast away upon this
part of the world, not one life should be spared but
mine. I learnt here again to observe, that it is
very rare that the providence of God casts us into
any condition of life so low, or any misery so great,
but we may see something or other to be thankful
for, and may see others in worse circumstances than
our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of
whom I could not so much as see room to suppose
any of them were saved; nothing could make it
rational, so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in com-
pany: and this was but mere possibility indeed;
for I saw not the least signal or appearance of any
such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing, or hankering of desire, I
felt in my soul upon this sight; breaking out some-
times thus: “O that there had been but one or
two, nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to
have escaped to me, that I might but have had one
companion, one fellow-creature to have spoken to
me, and to have conversed with!” In all the time
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or
so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the
affections, which, when they are set a going by
some object in view, or be it some object though
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by
the power of imagination, that motion carries out
the soul by its impetuosity to such violent eager
embracings of the object, that the absence of it is
insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, “That but one
man had been saved! O that it had been but one!”
I believe I repeated the words, “O that it had been
but one !” a thousand times; and my desires were
so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my
hands would clinch together, and my fingers press
the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft
thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involun-
tarily; and my teeth in my head would strike to-
gether, and set against one another so strong, that
for some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them; all I can say of them
is, to describe the fact, which was ever surprising
to me when I found it, though I knew not from
what it should proceed; it was doubtless the effect
of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my
mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation
of one of my fellow-christians would have been
to me.
But it was not to be ; either their fate, or mine,
or both, forbade it; for till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were sa-
ved out of that ship, or no; and had only the af-
fliction some days after to see the corpse of a drown-
ed boy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck: he had on no
clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but
nothing to direct me so much as to guess what
nation he was of: he had nothing in his pocket
but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe; the
last was to me of ten times more value than the
first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but
I might find something on board that might be
useful to me; but that did not altogether press me
so much, as the possibility that there might be yet
some living creature on board, whose life I might
not only save, but might, by saving that life, com-
fort my own to the last degree: and this thought
clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet
night nor day, but I must venture out in my boat
on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God’s providence, I thought the impression was
so strong upon my mind, that it could not be re-
sisted, that it must come from some invisible direc-
tion, and that I should be wanting to myself if I
did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for
fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum,
(for I had still a great deal of that left,) a basket
full of raisins; and thus loading myself with every
thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more:
my second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the
umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another
large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen
of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than be-
fore, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to
my boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage,
I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along
the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
island, on that side, viz. N. E. And now I was to
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture, or
not to venture; I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island,
at a distance, and which were very terrible to me,
from the remembrance of the hazard I had been
in before, and my heart began to fail me; for I
foresaw, that if I was driven into either of those
currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea,
and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small,
if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be
inevitably kºt.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I
began to give over my enterprise; and having hauled
my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me down upon a little spot of rising
ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear
and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned,
and the flood came on, upon which my going was
for so many hours impracticable; upon this it pre-
sently occurred to me, that I should go up to the
highest piece of ground I could find, and observe,
if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay,
when the flood came in, that I might judge whether,
if I was driven one way out, I might not expect to
be driven another way home, with the same rapid-
ness of the currents. This thought was no sooner
WOL. If, º -
in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill
which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways,
and from whence I had a clear view of the currents,
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide
myself in my return: here I found, that as the cur-
rent of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north of the island in my
return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for that night in the canoe,
under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launch-
ed out. I made first a little out to sea full north,
till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side
current had done before, and so as to take from me
all government of the boat; but having a strong
steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two
hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at : the ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in
between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of
her was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
5
with great violence, her main-mast and fore-mast
were brought by the board, that is to say, broken
short off, but her boltsprit was sound, and the head
and bow appeared firm. When I came close to
her, a dog appeared upon her, which, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried, and as soon as I called
him jumped into the sea to come to me; and I
took him into the boat, but found him almost dead
for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf that had
been starving a fortnight in the snow: I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with which,
if I would have let him, he would have burst him-
self.
After this I went on board. The first sight I
met with was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strang-
led with the constant rushing in of the water, as
much as if they had been under water. Besides
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had
life, nor any goods that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water : there were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which
lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being
20 THE LIFE AND Adventures
ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to
meddle with: I saw several chests, which I belie-
ved belonged to some of the seamen, and I got two
of them into the boat without examining what was
in them. -
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
fore part broken off, I am persuaded I might have
made a good voyage; for by what I found in these
two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a
great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by
the course she steered, she must have been bound
from the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in
the south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to
the Havanna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so per-
haps to Spain: she had, no doubt, a great treasure
in her, but of no use at that time to any body :
and what became of the rest of her people I then
knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into
my boat with much difficulty. There were several
muskets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with
about four pounds of powder in it: as for the mus-
kets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and
a gridiron; and with this cargo, and the dog, I
eame away, the tide beginning to make home
again; and the same cvening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued
to the last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the
morning I resolved to harbour what I had gotten
in my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle.
After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars: the
cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not
such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word, not
at all good; but when I came to open the chests,
I found several things which I wanted: for exam-
ple, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an ex-
traordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters,
fine, and very good; the bottles held about three
pints each, and were tipped with silver: I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on the top, that the salt water had
not hurt them; and two more of the same, which
the water had spoiled: I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about
a dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and
coloured neckcloths; the former were also very
welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my
face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to
the till in the chests, I found there three great bags
of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a
paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars
or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh
near a pound.
The other chest I found had some clothes in it,
but of little value; but by the circumstances, it
must have belonged to the gunner's mate, as there
was no powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed
powder in the three flasks, kept, I suppose, for
charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon
the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was
of much use to me: for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt
under my feet; and I would have given it all for
three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not
had on my feet now for many years; I had, indeed,
got two pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet
of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck;
and I found two pair more in one of the chests,
which were very welcome to me; but they were
not like our English shoes, either for ease or service,
being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I
found in the seaman's chest about fifty pieces of
eight in royals, but no gold : I suppose this be-
longed to a poorer man than the other, which seem-
ed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my
~
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before,
which I brought from our own ship; but it was
great pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship
had not come to my share, for I am satisfied I
might have loaded my canoe several times over
with money, which, if I had ever escaped to Eng-
land, would have lain here safe enough till I might
have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all mythings on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way
to my old habitation, where I found every thing
safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family
affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough; only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked
out oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and
if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
such a load of arms and ammunition as I always
carried with me, if I went the other way.
CHIAP. II.
Reftections—An extraordinary Dream—Discover five
Canoes of Savages on shore—Observe from my station
two miserable Wretches dragged out of their boats to
be devoured—One of them makes his escape, and runs
directly towards me, pursued by two others—I take
Measures so as to destroy his Pursuers and sate his
life—Christen him by the name of Friday, and he be-
comes a faithful and excellent Servant.
I lived in this condition near two years more;
but my unlucky head, that was always to let me
know it was born to make my body miserable, was
all these two years filled with projects and designs,
how, if it were possible, I might get away from
this island; for sometimes I was for making ano-
ther voyage to the wreck, though my reason told
me, that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one
way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I
had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague
of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half
of their miseries flow: I mean, that of not being
satisfied with the station wherein God and nature
hath placed them; for, not to look back upon my
primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
father, the opposition to which was, as I may call
it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the
same kind have been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence,
which so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a
planter, blessed me with confined desires, and could
I have been contented to have gone on gradually,
I might have been by this time, I mean in the time
of my being on this island, one of the most consi-
derable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am persuad-
ed, that by the improvements I had made in that
little time I lived there, and the increase I should
probably have made if I had stayed, I might have
been worth a hundred thousand moidores; and
what business had I to leave a settled fortune, well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to
turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when
patience and time would have so increased our stock
at home, that we could have bought them at our
own doors, from those whose business it was to
fetch them? And though it had cost us something
more, yet the difference of that price was by no
means worth saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads,
so reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily
the exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought
experience of time; and so it was with me now;
and yet, so deep had the mistake taken root in my
temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my sta-
tion, but was continually poring upon the means
and possibility of my escape from this place; and
that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
bring on the remaining part of my story, it may
not be improper to give some account of my first
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme
for my escape; and how, and upon what founda-
tion, I acted. ~
I am now to be supposed to be retired into my
castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my fri-
gate laid up, and secured under water as usual, and
my condition restored to what it was before : I
had more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but
was not at all the richer; for I had no more use
for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spani-
ards came thither.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in
March, the four-and-twentieth year of my first set-
ting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in
my bed or hammock, awake, and very well in
health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness
of body, no, nor any uneasiness of mind more than
ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes,
that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night
long, otherwise than as follows:
It is as impossible as needless to set down the in-
numerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory,
in this night's time : I ran over the whole history
of my life in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may
call it, to my coming to this island; and also of
that part of my life since I came to this island; in
my reflections upon the state of my case, since I
came on shore on this island, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs, in the first years of
my habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear,
and care, which I had lived in ever since I had
seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island
even all the while, and might have been several
hundreds of them at times on the shore there; but
as I had never known it, and was incapable of any
apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect,
though my danger was the same; and I was as
happy in not knowing my danger, as if I had never
really been exposed to it: this furnished my
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and
particularly this one: How infinitely good that
Providence is, which has settled in its government
of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and
knowledge of things; and though he walks in the
midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of
which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind
and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by
having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
him.
After these thoughts had for some time enter-
tained me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real
danger I had been in for so many years in this very
island; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquillity, even
perhaps when nothing but a brow on a hill, a great
tree, or the casual approach of night, had been be-
tween me and the worst kind of destruction, viz.
that of falling into the hands of cannibals and sa-
wages, who would have seized on me with the same
wiew as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have thought
it no more a crime to kill and devour me, than I
did of a pigeon or a curlew. I should unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility,
that all these unknown deliverances were due, and
º
without which I should inevitably have fallen into
their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was
for some time taken up in considering the nature
of these wretched creatures, I mean, the savages;
and how it came to pass in the world, that the wise
Governor of all things should give up any of his
creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something
so much below even brutality itself, as to devour
its own kind : but as this ended in some (at that
time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to in-
quire what part of the world these wretches lived
in ; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; what they ventured so far from home for;
what kind of boats they had; and why I might
not order myself, and my business so, that I might
be as able to go over thither, as they were to come
to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider
what I should do with myself when I came thither;
what should become of me if I fell into the hands
of the savages; or how I should escape from them,
if they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it
was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be
attacked by some or other of them, without any
possibility of delivering myself; and if I should not
fall into their hands, what I should do for provision,
or whither I should bend my course: none of these
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but
my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my
passing over in my boat to the main land. I look-
ed back upon my present condition as the most
miserable that could possibly be; that I was not
able to throw myself into any thing but death that
could be called worse; that if I reached the shore
of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief; or
I might coast along, as I did on the shore of Afri-
ca, till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief; and after all, per-
haps, I might fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the worst came to the
worst, I could but die, which would put an end to
all these miseries at once. Pray, note, all this was
the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper,
made, as it were, desperate by the long continu-
ance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had
met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near the obtaining of what I
so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to,
and to learn some knowledge from, of the place
where I was, and of the probable means of my de-
liverance; I say, I was agitated wholly by these
thoughts. All my calm of mind in my resigna-
tion to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dis-
positions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended;
and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the
main; which came upon me with such force, and
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two
hours or more, with such violence, that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as
high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it; nature,
as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the
very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep:
one would have thought I should have dreamed of
it; but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it;
but I dreamed, that as I was going out in the morn-
ing, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two canoes and eleven savages coming to land, and
that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to
kill jumped away, and ran for his life: then I
thought in my sleep, that he came running into my
little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I seeing him alone, and not per-
ceiving that the others sought him that way, shew-
ed myself to him, and, smiling upon him, encoura-
ged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which I shewed my
ladder, made him go up it, and carried him into
my cave, and he became my servant; and that as
soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, “Now
I may certainly venture to the main land; for this
fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and
whither not to go for fear of being devoured: what
places to venture into, and what to escape.” I wa-
ked with this thought, and was under such inexpres-
sible impressions of joy at the prospect of my
escape in my dream, that the disappointments
which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage in my possession;
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should
bring hither to kill: but these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible
to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only
a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but,
on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the law-
fulness of it to me, and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was
for my deliverance: I need not repeat the argu-
ments which occurred to me against this, they be-
ing the same mentioned before: but though I had
other reasons to offer now, viz. that those men were
enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they
could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest
degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life,
and was acting in my own defence, as much as if
they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I
say, though these things argued for it, yet the
thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliver-
ance were very terrible to me, and such as I could
by no means reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled
in my head a long time), the eager prevailing de-
sire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest,
and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these sava-
ges into my hands, cost what it would : the next
thing then was to contrive how to do it; and this
indeed was very difficult to resolve on: but as I
could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I re-
solved to put myself upon the watch to see them
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the
event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let it be what it would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my-
self upon the scout as often as possible, and in-
WOL. II, c
deed so often, till I was heartily tired of it; for it
was above a year and a half that I waited, and for
a great part of that time went out to the west end
and to the south-west corner of the island, almost
every day, to see the canoes, but none appeared.
This was very discouraging, and began to trouble
me much; though I can't say that it did in this
case, as it had done some time before that, viz.
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but
the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: in a word, I was not at first more
careful to shun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, than I was now eager
to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one,
nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to
make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I
should direct them, and to prevent their being able,
at any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great
while that I pleased myself with this affair, but
nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for
a great while.
About a year and a half after I had entertained
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it
were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of
an occasion to put them in execution, I was sur-
prised one morning early, with seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together, on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight: the number of them
broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take any measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I lay still
in my castle, perplexed and discomforted; however,
I put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if any thing had presented. Having
waited a good while, listening to hear if they made
any noise; at length being very impatient, I set
my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered
up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual,
standing so, however, that my head did not appear
above the hill, so that they could not perceive me
by any means. Here I observed, by the help of
my perspective glass, that they were no less than
thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled, and
that they had had meat dressed; how they cooked
it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they were
all dancing in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived,
by my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by
and were now brought out for the slaughter: I
perceived one of them immediately fall, being
knocked down, I suppose, with a club or wooden
sword, for that was their way; and two or three
others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for
him. In that very moment this poor wretch see-
ing himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them,
and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands,
directly towards me; I mean towards that part of
the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknow-
ledge) when I perceived him to run my way: and
especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the whole body; and now I expected that part
of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelter in my grove; but I could
not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it, viz. that the other savage would not pur-
sue him thither, and find him there. However, I
kept my station, and my spirits began to recover,
when I found that there were not above three men
that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstript them exceedingly
in running, and gained ground of them; so that if
he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily
he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my
story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship;
and this I knew he must necessarily swim over,
or the poor wretch would be taken there: but
when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but
plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes,
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding
strength and swiftness. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, I found that two of them could
swim, but the third could not, and that he, standing
on the other side, looked at the other, but went no
farther; and soon after went softly back again,
which, as it happened, was very well for him in
the main.
I observed, that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than
the fellow was that fled from them. It came now
very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irre-
sistibly, that now was my time to get a servant,
and perhaps a companion, or assistant, and that I
was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediately got down the ladders
with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
for they were both at the foot of the ladder, as I
observed above; and getting up again with the
same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards
the sea; and having a very short cut, and all down-
hill, clapped myself in the way between the pur-
suers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned
with my hand to him to come back; and in the
mean time I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost,
I knocked him down with the stock of my piece;
I was loath to fire, because I would not have the
rest hear, though at that distance it would not have
been easily heard; and being out of sight of the
smoke too, they would not have easily known what
to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down,
the other who pursued him stopped, as if he had
been frightened, and I advanced apace towards
him: but as I came nearer, I perceived presently
he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot
at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
first; which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though
he saw both his enemies fallen, and killed (as he
thought,) yet was so frighted with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward, nor went backward, though he seem-
ed rather inclined to fly still, than to come on. I
hallooed again to him, and made signs to come for-
ward, which he easily understood, and came a little
way, then stopped again, and then a little farther,
and stopped again; and I could then perceive, that

I preeived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was tting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated
to shot at him first; which I did, and killed him at the
first flot.
i
Wol. II. Page 38.

*-
º

he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prison-
er, and had just been to be killed, as his two ene-
mies were. I beckoned him again to come to me,
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that
I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token
of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him
to come still nearer. At length he came close to
me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and
taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his
head. This, it seems, was in token of swearing to
be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much
of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the sa-
vage, whom I knocked down, was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to him-
self: so I pointed to him, and shewed him the sa-
vage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke
some words to me; and though I could not under-
stand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice
that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-
and-twenty years. But there was no time for such
reflections now: the savage, who was knocked down,
recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the
ground; and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him :
upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side; so I did : he no sooner
had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow
cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange for one, who, I had reason to
believe, never saw a sword in his life before, except
their own wooden swords: however, it seems, as I
learnt afterwards, they make their wooden swords
so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that
they will cut off heads even with them, nay, and
arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and, with abundance
of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it
down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was, to
know how I had killed the other Indian so far off;
so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him
go to him: so I bade him go, as well as I could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed,
looking at him; turned him first on one side, then
on t'other; looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which it seems was just in his breast, where
it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood
had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he
was quite dead. Then he took up his bow and
arrows, and came back: so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him
that more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not be seen by the
rest, if they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him, and did so also by the
other; I believe he had buried them both in a quar-
ter of an hour: then calling him away, I carried
him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island; so I did not let my
dream come to pass in that part; viz. that he came
into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go
lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had
laid a great parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket
upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times; so the poor creature lay down, and went to
sleep. -
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European in his coun-
tenance too, especially when he smiled: his hair was
long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead
very high and large, and a great vivacity and
sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Bra-
zilians and Virginians, and other natives of America,
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and plump,
his nose small, not flat like the Negroe's, a very
good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well set,
and white as ivory. After he had slumbered,
rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked
again, and comes out of the cave to me, for I had
been milking my goats, which I had in the enclo-
sure just by : when he espied me, he came running
to me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble thankful
disposition, making many antic gestures to shew
it. At last he lays his head flat upon the ground,
close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, made
all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how much
he would serve me as long as he lived. I under-
stood him in many things, and let him know I was
very well pleased with him. In a little time I be-
gan to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me;
and first, I made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life; and
I called him so for the memory of the time; I
likewise taught him to say Master, and then let
him know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him,
and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake of
bread to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned him to come with me,
and let him know I would give him some clothes:
at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark-
naked. As we went by the place where he had
buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot,
and shewed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again, and eat them: at this I ap-
peared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it,
made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away,
which he did immediately, with gre t submission.
I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if
his enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass,
I looked, and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their
canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, with-
out any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery: but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving
him the sword in his hand, with the bow and ar-
rows at his back, which I found he could use very
dexterously, making him carry one gun for me,
and I two for myself, and away we marched to
the place where these creatures had been; for I had
a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them.
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill
in my veins, and my heart sunk within me at the
horror of the spectacle: indeed it was a dreadful
sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothing of it: the place was covered with human
bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great pieces
of flesh left here and there, half-eaten, mangled,
and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the
triumphant feast they had been making there, af.
ter a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four
legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of the
bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand, that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there
had been a great battle between them and their
next king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been
one of; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all which were carried to several places
by those that had taken them in the flight, in or-
der to feast upon them, as was done here by these
wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them to-
gether on an heap, and make a great fire upon
it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh,
and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I dis-
covered so much abhorrence at the very thoughts
of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he
durst not discover it; for I had, by some means,
let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our
castle, and there I fell to work for my man Fri-
day; and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest
I mentioned, and which I found in the wreck; and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well;
then I made him a jerkin of goat's-skin, as well as
my skill would allow, and I was now grown a to-
lerable good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I
had made of a hare-skin, very convenient, and
fashionable enough: and thus he was dressed, for
the present, tolerably well, and mighty well was he
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these
things at first; wearing the drawers was very awk-
ward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a
little easing them, where he complained they hurt
him, and using himself to them, at length he took
to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch
with him, I began to consider where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well for him, and yet be
perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications,
in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the
first: and as there was a door or entrance there
into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the pas-
sage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my in-
nermost wall, without making so much noise in get-
ting over, that it must needs awaken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the hill, which was again laid cross with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice straw, which was
strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which
was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which if it had been attempted
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but
would have fallen down, and made a great noise;
and as to weapons, I took them all into my side
every night. -
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant,
than Friday was to me; without passions, sullen-
ness, or designs; perfectly obliging and engaging;
his very affections were tied to me, like those of
a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have
sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon any oc-
casion whatsoever : the many testimonies he gave
me of this put it out of doubt; and soon convinced
me, that I needed to use no precautions as to my
safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that, however it had pleased God
in his providence, and in the government of the
works of his hands, to take from so great a part of
the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties, and the powers of their souls, are
adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same powers, the same reason, the same affections,
the same sentiments of kindness and obligation,
the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the
same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all
the capacities of doing good, and receiving good,
that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these, they are
as ready, nay more ready, to apply them to the
right uses for which they were bestowed, than we
are. And this made me very melancholy some-
times, in reflecting, as the several occasions pre-
sented, how mean an use we make of all these,
even though we have these powers enlightened by
the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and
by the knowledge of his word, added to our under-
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so many millions of
souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage,
would make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to in-
vade the sovereignty of Providence; and, as it were,
arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of
things, that should hide that light from some, and re-
vealitto others, and yet except alike duty from both:
*
but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with
this conclusion: first, that we do not know by
what light and law these should be condemned; but
that as God was necessarily, and by the nature of
his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not
be, but that if these creatures were all sentenced to
absence from himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light, which, as the scripture says,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though
the foundation was not discovered to us: and, se-
condly, that still, as we are all clay in the hand of
the potter, no vessel could say to him, “Why hast
thou formed me thus *
But to return to my new companion: I was great-
ly delighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him every thing that was proper to make
him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to
make him speak, and understand me when I spake:
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was ; and
particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me,
or make me understand him, that it was very plea-
sant to me to talk to him. And now my life be-
gan to be so easy, that I began to say to myself,
that could I but have been safe from more savages,
I cared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.
W 0 L. II. p
CHAP. III.
I am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my al-
horrence of the Cannibal practices of the Savages—
He is amazed at the effects of the Gun, and consi-
ders it an intelligent being—Begins to talk English
tolerably—A Dialogue—I instruct him in the know-
ledge of Religion, and find him very apt—He de-
scribes to me some white Men who had come to his
and still lived there.
After I had been two or three days returned to
my castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday
off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him
taste other flesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods: I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sit-
ting by her. I catched hold of Friday: “Hold.”
said I, “stand still;” and made signs to him not to
stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had at
a distance indeed seen me kill the savage his enemy,
but did not know, or could imagine how it was done,
was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down: he did not see the kid I had shot at,
or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found,
presently thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see that his meaning was
to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I
had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering and
looking to see how the creature was killed, I load-
ed my gun again, and by and by I saw a great
fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been
a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly
I fired, and bid him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall: He stood like one frighted again,
notwithstanding all that I had said to him; and I
found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put any thing into the gun; but thought
there must be some wonderful fund of death and
destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast,
bird, or any thing near or far off; for the astonish-
ment this created in him was such, as could not
wear off for a long time; and I believe, if I would
have let him, he would have worshipped me and my
gun: as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after; but would speak to
it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when
he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learnt of
him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird, I
had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for
the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a
good way off from the place where she fell; how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to
me; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about
the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the
gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might
be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time; so I brought
home the kid; and the same evening I took the skin
off, and cut it out as well as I could, and having a
pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the
flesh, and made some very good broth: after I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who
seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well; but
that which was strangest to him, was, to see me
eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his
own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it. On the other hand, I took some
meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to
spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had
done at the salt; but it would not do, he would
never care for salt with meat, or in his broth; at
least, not a great while, and then but a very
little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roast-
ing a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it be-
fore the fire in a string, as I had seen many people do
in England, setting two poles up, one on each side
of a fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the
string to the cross stick, letting the meat run con-
tinually : this Friday admired very much; but
when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many
ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could
not but understand him; and at last he told me
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I
was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I
observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what
the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of; for after that I let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too; and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, as well as I
could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that, having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn,
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as
before, in which Friday not only worked very wil-
lingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully;
and I told him what it was for, that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself too:
he appeared very sensible of that part, and let
me know, that he thought I had much more la-
bour upon me on his account, than I had for my-
self, and that he would work the harder for me, if
I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well,
and understand the names of almost every thing I
had occasion to call for, and of every place I had
to send him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that,
in short, I began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which indeed I had very little occa-
sion for before; that is to say, about speech. Be-
sides the pleasure of talking to him. I had a singu-
lar satisfaction in the fellow himself; his simple un-
feigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side, I believe, he loved me more than
it was possible for him ever to love any thing be-
fore. -
I had a mind once to try if he had any hanker-
ing inclination to his own country again ; and ha-
ving learnt him English so well, that he could an-
swer me almost any questions, I asked him, whether
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled and said, “Yes, yes,
we always fight the better;” that is, he meant, al-
ways get the better in fight; and so we began the
following discourse: “You always fight the bet-
ter!” said I: “ how came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday "
Friday. My nation beat much for all that,
- º -
Master. How beat? if your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken 2
Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me:
my nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two great
thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your na-
tion do with the men they take Do they carry them
away, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither? -
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here [points to the N. W.
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side].
By this, I understood, that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages, who used to come
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the
said man-eating occasions that he was now brought
for; and some time after, when I took the courage
to carry him to that side, being the same I former-
ly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me, he was there once when they ate up twenty
men, two women, and one child: he could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered them by lay-
ing so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to
tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces
what follows; that after I had had this discourse with
him, I asked him, how far it was from our island to
the shore, and whether the canoes were not often
lost; He told me there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea, there
was a current, and a wind always one way in the
morning, the other in the afternoon.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out, or coming in; but I aft -
wards understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque;
in the mouth of which river, as I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which I
perceived to the W. and N. W. was the great island,
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near : he told me all he knew
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked
him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood, that these were
the Caribees, which our maps place on that part
of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards to St Mar-
tha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the
moon; that was, beyond the setting of the moon,
which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white-bearded men, like me, and pointed to
my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word:
by which I understood he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America had been spread over
the whole countries, and were remembered by all
the nations from father to son. -
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men;
he told me, Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe; I
could not understand what he meant by two canoe;
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant,
that it must be in a large great boat as big as two
CanoeS.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish
with me very well; and from this time I entertain-
ed some hopes, that one time or other I might find
an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
and that this poor savage might be a means to help
me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind; parti-
cularly I asked him one time, Who made him The
poor creature did not understand me at all, but
thought I had asked who was his father: but I took
it by another handle, and asked him, Who made
the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills and
woods? He told me it was one old Benamuckee,
that lived beyond all: he could describe nothing of
this great person, but that he was very old; much
older he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old
person had made all things, why did not all things
worship him He looked very grave, and, with a
perfect look of innocence, said, All things said O'
to him. I asked him if the people who die in his
country, went away any where He said, Yes, they
all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked him,
whether those they eat up went thither too? he
said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the
great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up
towards heaven; that he governs the world by the
same power and providence by which he made it;
that he was omnipotent, could do every thing for
us, give every thing to us, take every thing from
us: and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He
listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to re-
deem us, and of the manner of making our prayers
to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
heaven: he told me one day, that if our God could
hear usupbeyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little
way off, and yet could not hear, till they went up
to the great mountains, where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him He said, No, they never went that were
young men; none went thither but the old men;
whom he called their Oowookakee; that is, as I made
him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and
that they went to say O ! (so he called saying
prayers) and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there
is priestcraft even amongst the most blinded igno-
rant Pagans in the world; and the policy of making.
a secret of religion, in order to preserve the venera-
tion of the people to the clergy, is not only to be
found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religi-
ons in the world, even among the most brutish and
barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their
eld men going up to the mountains to say O ! to
their god Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their
bringing word from thence what he said, was much
more so; that if they met with any answer, or
spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil
spirit: and then I entered into a long discourse
with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the rea-
son of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of
the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of, to
delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret
access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt
his snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us even
to be our own tempters, and to run upon our own
destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
-in his mind about the devil, as it was about the
being of a God: nature assisted all my arguments
to evidence to him even the necessity of a great
First Cause, and over-ruling governing Power, a
secret directing Providence, and of the equity and
justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and
the like: but there appeared nothing of all this in
the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his being,
his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do
evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a
question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce
knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a con-
suming fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he
had made us all, he could destroy us, and all the
world in a moment; and he listened with great seri-
ousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs
of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in
the world, and the like: “Well,” says Friday, “but
you say God is so strong, so great, is he not much
strong, much might as the devil?”—“Yes, yes,”
said I, “Friday, God is stronger than the devil,
God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him under our feet, and enable us
to resist his temptations, and quench his fiery
darts.”—“But,” says he again, “if God much
strong, much might, as the devil, why God not kill
the devil, so make him no more wicked ”
I was strangely surprised at his question; and,
after all, though I was now an old man, yet I was
but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a
casuist, or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I
could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said but he was
too earnest for an answer to forget his question; so
that he repeated it in the very same broken words,
as above. By this time I had recovered my-
self a little, and I said, “God will at last punish him
severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to
be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire. This did not satisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my words, “Reserve at
last ! me no understand: but why not kill the devil
now, not kill great ago?”—“You may as well ask
me,” said I, “why God does not kill you and me,
when we do wicked things here that offend him:
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned.” He
muses a while at this; “Well, well,” says he,
mighty affectionately, “that well; so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.”
Here I was run down again by him to the last de-
gree and it was a testimony to me, how the mere no-
tions of nature, though they will guide reasonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship
or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature; yet nothing but divine
revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and of a redemption purchased for us; of a Medi-
ator; of a new covenant; and of an Intercessor at
the footstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but a
revelation from Heaven can form these in the soul;
and that therefore the Gospel of our Lord and Savi-
our Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier
of his people, are the absolutely necessary instruc-
tors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse be-
tween me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon
some sudden occasion of going out; then sending
him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God, that he would enable me to in-
struct savingly this poor savage, assisting, by his
Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ,
reconciling him to himself, and would guide me to
speak so to him from the word of God, as his con-
science might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul saved. When he came again to me, I
entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of
the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preach-
ed from Heaven, viz. of the repentance towards
God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus: I then
explained to him, as well as I could, why our bles-
sed Redemeer took not on him the mature of angels,
but the seed of Abraham, and how, for that reason,
the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than know-
ledge, in all the methods I took for this poor crea-
ture's instruction; and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will
find, that in laying things open to him, I really in-
formed and instructed myself in many things that
either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before; but which occurred naturally to my mind,
upon my searching into them for the information
of this poor savage; and I had more affection in
my inquiry after things upon this occasion, than
ever I felt before; so that whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me: my
grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew com-
fortable to me beyond measure; and when I re-
flected, that in this solitary life, which I had been
confined to, I had not only been moved myself to
look up to Heaven, and to seek to the Hand that
brought me thither, but was now to be made an in-
strument, under Providence, to save the life, and,
for aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and
bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and
of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal; I say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I frequent-
ly rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place,
WOL. II, e
which I had often thought the most dreadful of all
afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the re-
mainder of my time; and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and me was
such, as made the three years which we lived there
together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in
a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have
reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comforted restored penitents:
we had here the word of God to read, and no far-
ther off from his Spirit to instruct than if we had
been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture,
and to let him know as well as I could the mean-
ing of what I read; and he again, by his serious
inquiries and questions, made me, as I said before,
a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge,
than I should ever have been by my own private
reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from ob-
serving here also from experience, in this retired
part of my life; viz, how infinite and inexpressible
a blessing it is, that the knowledge of God, and of
the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so
plainly laid down in the word of God, so easy to
be received and understood, that as the bare read-
4.
ing the Scripture made me capable of understand-
ing enough of my duty to carry me directly on to
the great work of sincere repentance for my sins,
and laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation,
to a stated reformation of practice, and obedience
to all God's commands, and this without any teacher
or instructor (I mean, human); so the plain instruc-
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this sa-
vage creature, and bringing him to be such a Chris-
tain, as I have known few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and con-
tention, which has happened in the world about
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes
of church-government, they were all perfectly use-
less to us, as, for aught I can yet see, they have
been to all the rest in the world: we had the sure
guide to heaven, viz. the word of God; and we
had, blessed be God! comfortable views of the
Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by his
word, leading us into all truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word; and I cannot see the least use that the
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in reli-
gion, which have made such confusions in the
world, would have been to us, if we could have ob-
tained it. But I must go on with the historical part
of things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my co-
ming into the place, how I had lived there, and
how long : I let him into the mystery (for such it
was to him) of gunpowder and bullets, and taught
him how to shoot: I gave him a knife, which he
was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him
a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in ; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon in some cases, but much more use-
ful upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to
one another, and how we traded in ships to all the
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and shewed
him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces long before, and
quite gone.
I shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir
with my whole strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood musing a great while, and said nothing; I
asked him what it was he studied upon At last,
says he, “Me see such boat like come to place at
my nation.”
I did not understand him a good while; but at
last, when I had examined farther into it, I under-
stood by him, that a boat, such as that had been,
came on shore upon the country where he lived;
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive
ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much
less whence they might come; so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough;
but brought me better to understand him, when he
added, with some warmth, “We save the white
mans from drown.” Then I presently asked him,
if there were any white mans, as he called them,
in the boat? “Yes,” he said, “the boat full of white
mans.” I asked him, how many he told upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him then, what became
of them 2 he told me, “ They live, they dwell at
my nation.”
This put new thoughts into my head again; for
I presently imagined, that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight of
my island, as I now call it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her ine-
vitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the sa-
vages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically,
what was become of them He assured me they..
lived still there, that they had been there about
four years, that the savages let them alone, and
gave them victuals to live. I asked him how it
came to pass they did not kill them, and eat them?
He said, “No, they make brother with them:”
that is, as I understood him, a truce: and then he
added, “They eat no mans but when make the
war fight:” that is to say, they never eat any men,
but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of the
island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear
day discovered the main or continent of America;
Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main land, and in a kind of
surprise falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out
to me, for I was at some distance from him: I ask-
ed him what was the matter “O joy!” says he,
“O glad! there see my country, there my na-
tion "
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again; and
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts
into me; which made me at first not so easy about
my new man Friday as I was before; and I made
no doubt but that if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligations to me; and would
be forward enough to give his countrymen an ac-
count of me, and come back, perhaps, with an hun-
dred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at
which he might be as merry as he used to be with
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very
much, for which I was very sorry afterwards: how-
ever, as my jealousy increased, and held me some
weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so
familiar and kind to him as before; in which I
was certainly in the wrong too, the honest grateful
creature having no thought about it, but what con-
sisted of the best principles, both as a religious
Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared af.
terwards to my full satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts which I
suspected were in him; but I found every thing he
said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite
of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely
his own again; nor did he in the least perceive that
I was uneasy; and therefore I could not suspect
him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said, “Friday, do
not you wish yourself in your own country, your
own nation ?”—“Yes,” he said, “I be much O
glad to be at my own nation.”—“What would you
do there?” said I : “ would you turn wild again,
eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were
before ?” He looked full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, “No, no, Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again.”
—“Why then,” said I to him, “ they will kill you.”
He looked grave at that, and then said, “ No,
they no kill me, they willing love learn:” he meant
by this, they would be willing to learn. He added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came
in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make
a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. “I go!” said I, “why, they
will eat me if I come there.”—“No, no,” says he,
“me make them no eat you, me make they much
love you:” he meant he would tell them how I had
killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me, as well as
he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came
on shore in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to ven-
ture over, and see if I could possibly join with these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt were Spa-
niards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could,
we might find some method to escape from thence,
being upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could from an island forty
miles off the shore, and alone without help. So,
after some days, I took Friday to work again, by
way of discourse; and told him, I would give him
a boat to go back to his own nation; and accord-
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on
the other side of the island; and having cleared it
of water (for I always kept it sunk in the water),
I brought it out, shewed it him, and we both went
into it. -
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at mana-
ging it, would make it go almost as swift and fast
again as I could; so when he was in I said to him,
“Well now, Friday, shall we go to your nation *
He looked very dull at my saying so, which it
seems, was because he thought, the boat too small
to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat
lay which I had made, but which I could not get
into the water; he said that was big enough; but
then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain
two or three and twenty years there, the sun had
split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry “much enough vittle, drink, bread:”
that was his way of talking.
CHAP. IV.
I determine to go over to the Continent—Friday and
I construct a boat equal to carry twenty men—His
derterity in managing her—Friday brings intelli-
gence of three Canoes of Savages on Shore—Resolve
to go down upon them–Friday and I fire upon the
Wretches, and save the life of a poor Spaniard—
List of the killed and wounded—Discover a poor
Indian bound in one of the Canoes, who turns out
to be Friday's father. -
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big
as that, and he should go home in it. He answer-
ed not one word, but looked very grave and sad.
I asked him what was the matter with him He
asked me again thus, “Why you angry mad with
Friday what me done ** I asked him, what he
meant? I told him I was not angry with him at
12,
all: “No angry no angry!” says he, repeating
the words several times, “why send Friday home
away to my nation *—“Why,” said I, “Friday,
did you not say you wished you were there *—
“Yes yes,” says he, “wish be both there; no
wish Friday there, no master there.” In a word,
he would not think of going there without me. “I
go there, Friday !” said I; “ what should I do
there?” He turned very quick upon me at this;
“You do great deal much good,” says he; “ you
teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans; you
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life.”
—“ Alas, Friday,” said I, “ thou knowest not what
thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself.”—
“Yes, yes,” says he, “ you teechee me good, you
teechee them good.”—“No, no, Friday,” said I,
“you shall go without me; leave me here to live
by myself, as I did before.” He looked confused
again at that word, and running to one of the
hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up has-
tily, and gives it me. “What must I do with this?”
said I to him. “You take kill Friday,” says he.
“What must I kill you for " said I again. He
returns very quick, “What you send Friday away
for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away.” This
he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the ut-
most affection in him to me, and a firm resolution
in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I
would never send him away from me, if he was will-
ing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse
a settled affection to me, and that nothing should
part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my
doing them good; a thing which, as I had no no-
tion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or in-
tention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I
found a strong inclination to my attempting an es-
cape, as above, founded on the supposition gather-
ed from the former discourse; viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, with-
out any delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage : there
were trees enough in the island to have built a
little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but
even of good large vessels: but the main thing I
looked at, was to get one so near the water, that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the
mistake I committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found
he knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same co-
lour and smell. Friday was for burning the hol-
low or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a
boat: but I shewed him how rather to cut it out
with tools, which after I shewed him how to use, he
did very handily; and in about a month's hard la-
bour we finished it, and made it very handsome,
especially when, with our axes, which I shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside
into the true shape of a boat; after this, however,
it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along,
as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the
water; but when she was in, she would have car-
ried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity,
and how swift, my man Friday could manage her,
turn her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if
he would, and if we might, venture over in her?
“Yes,” he said, “he venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind.” However, I had a far-
ther design that he knew nothing of, and that was,
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an an-
chor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and which
there was a great plenty of in the island; and I set
Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him direc-
tions how to shape and order it: but as to the sail,
that was my particular care; I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had
had them now twenty-six years by me, and had
not been very careful to preserve them, not ima-
gining that I should ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed most of them were so; however, I found
two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with
these I went to work, and with a great deal of
pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be
sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-
cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England
a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot-
tom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usu-
ally our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage; because it was such a
one as I used in the boat in which I made my es-
cape from Barbary, as related in the first part of
my story. -
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I
finished them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we should
turn to windward; and, which was more than all,
I fixed a rudder to the stern of her, to steer with ;
and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as
I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to de
it, that at last I brought it to pass, though, consi-
dering the many dull contrivances I had for it that
failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as
making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle
the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder, and was the more amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by
the rudder, and how the sail gibed, and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonish-
ed and amazed: however, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could
make him understand very little of that: on the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars
were always to be seen by night, and the shore by
day, except in the rainy seasons; and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my captivity in this place; though the
three last years that I had this creature with me,
ought rather to be left out of the account, my ha-
5
bitation being quite of another kind than in all the
rest of my time. I kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thankfulness to God for
his mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of
acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now,
having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of
being effectually and speedily delivered; for I had
an invincible impression upon my thoughts, that
my delvierance was at hand, and that I should not
be another year in this place. However, I went
on with my husbandry, digging, planting, and fen-
cing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing, as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon
me, when I kept more within doors than at other
times; so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as
we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as
I said in the beginning, Ilanded my rafts from the
ship; and hauling her up to the shore, at high-wa-
ter mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
just big enough for her to float in; and then, when
the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay
dry, as to the tide, from the sea; and to keep the
rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees so
thick, that she was as well thatched as a house;
and thus we waited for the months of November
WOL. II. F
and December, in which I designed to make my
adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of pro-
vision, being the store for the voyage; and intend-
cd, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the
dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morning upon something of this kind, when I called
to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see
if he could find a turtle or tortoise; a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been
long gone, when he came running back, and flew
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt
not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and
before I had time to speak to him, he cried out to
me, “O master | O master O sorrow ! O bad ---
“What's the matter, Friday !” said I. “O yon-
82 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
two, three!” By this way of speaking, I concluded
there were six; but on inquiry I found there were
but three. “Well, Friday,” said I, “ do not be
frighted;” so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow most terribly scared;
for nothing ran in his head but that they were
come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces,
11
and eat him; the poor fellow trembled so, that I
scarce knew what to do with him; I comforted him
as well as I could, and told him, I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well
as him. “But,” said I, “Friday, we must resolve
to fight them: can you fight, Friday "-" Me
shoot,” says he, “but there come many great num-
ber.”—“No, matter for that,” said I again; “ our
guns will fright them that we do not kill.” So I
asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as
Ibade him He said, “Me die, when you bid die,
master;” so I went and fetched a good dram of rum,
and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he
had drank it, Imade him take the two fowling-pie-
ces which we always carried, and load them with.
large swan-shot as big as small pistol-bullets; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs
and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I
loaded with a brace of bullets each: I hung my
great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the
hill, to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bo-
dies; a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more
than, as I had observed, was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea: this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman er-
rand these wretches came about, so filled me with
indignation, that I came down again to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go down to them, and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by
me. He was now gotten over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had
given him, he was very cheerful; and told me, as
before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the
arms, which I had charged, as before, between us:
I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and
three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pis-
tol, and the other three, myself; and in this posture
we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in
my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more
powder and bullet; and as to others, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, shoot, or
do any thing till I bid him; and in the mean time,
not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a
*
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to
get over the creek as to get into the wood; so that
I might come within shot of them before I could
be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolution;
I do not mean, that I entertained any fear of their
number; for as they were naked, unarmed wretches,
it is certain I was superior to them; nay, though I
had been alone: but it occurred to my thoughts,
what call, what occasion, much less what necessity,
I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack
people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong, who, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous customs were their own disaster, being
in them a token indeed of God's having left them,
with the other nations of that part of the world, to
such stupidity and to such inhuman courses; but
did not call me to take upon me to be a judge
of their actions, much less an executioner of his jus-
tice; that whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause into his own hands, and by national ven-
geance punish them for national crimes; but that
in the mean time, it was none of my business; that
it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemy, and in a state of war with
those very particular people, and it was lawful for
him to attack them; but I could not say the same
with respect to me. These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that
I resolved I would only go place myself near them,
that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that
I would act then as God should direct; but that
unless something offered that was more a call to
me than yet I knew of, I would not middle with
them. -
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday following
close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them;
only that one corner of the wood lay between me
and them: here I called softly to Friday, and shew- .
ing him a great tree, which was just at the corner
of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring
me word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing : he did so, and came immediately back
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there; that they were all about the fire, eating the
flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, whom he
said they would kill next, and which fired the very
soul within me. He told me, it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had
told me of, who came to their country in the boat.
I was filled with horror at the very naming the
white-bearded man, and, going to the tree, I saw
plainly by my glass, a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet
tied with flags, or things like rushes; and that he
was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket be-
yond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the
place where I was, which, by going a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and
that then I should be within half-shot of them; so
I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enra-
ged to the highest degree; and going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree, and
then I came to a little rising-ground, which gave
me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen
of the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground all
close huddled together, and had just sent the other
two to butcher the poor christian, and bring him,
perhaps limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday; “Now, Friday,” said I, “do as
I bid thee.” Friday said he would. “ Then, Fri-
day,” said I, “do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing.” So I set down one of the muskets and
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the like by his; and with the other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like.
Then asking him if he was ready, he said “Yes.”
—“Then fire at them,” said I; and the same mo-
ment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that
on the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed
one, and wounded two. They were, you may be
sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them,
who were not hurt, jumped up upon their feet im-
mediately, but did not know which way to run, or
which way to look; for they knew not from whence
their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe
what I did; so as soon as the first shot was made,
I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like; he sees me cock and
present; he did the same again: “Are you ready,
Friday,”? said I. “Yes,” says he. “Let fly then,”
said I, “ in the name of God;” and with that I
fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did
Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with
what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
we found only two drop; but so many were wound-
ed, that they ran about yelling and screaming like
mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my side, I killed one, and wounded
two.
Wol. II. Page 88.

f : . . . ; : * * * * -- - - -
. . . . . . . . . . RY
* . . ..., L., & OX AN D
: ' ' . . . . N F CU ºn UATION º
—
of Robinson crusoe. 89
most of them; whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
“Now, Friday,” said I, laying down the dis-
charged pieces and taking up the musket, which
was yet loaden, “follow me,” said I; which he
did, with a deal of courage; upon which I rushed
out of the wood, and shewed myself, and Friday
close at my foot: as soon as I perceived they saw
me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which
by the way was not very fast, being loaded with
arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor vic-
tim. who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or
shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea; the two butchers who were just going to work
with him, had left him, at the surprise of our first
fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side,
and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way: I turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he
understood me, immediately, and running about
forty yards to be near them, he shot at them, and
I thought he had killed them all; for I saw them
all fall on an heap into the boat; though I saw two
of them up again quickly : however, he killed two
of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay
down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been
dead. -
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor
victim; and loosing his hands and feet I lifted him
up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what
he was 2 he answered in Latin, Christianus; but was
so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand, or
speak; I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave
it him, making signs that he should drink, which
he did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate;
then I asked him what countryman he was 2 and he
said Espagnole; and, being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make,
how much he was in my debt for his deliverance.
“Seignior,” said I, with as much Spanish as I could
make up, “we will talk afterwards, but we must
fight now : if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you :” he took them
very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in
his hands, but as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had
cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amaze-
ment and fear, and had no more power to attempt their
own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot in the boat; for as three of them fell with the
hurt they received, so the other two fell with the
fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which
lay there, that had been discharged, which he did
with great swiftness; and then giving him my mus-
ket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted. While
I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have
killed him before, if I had not prevented it: the
Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could
be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian
a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on
his head; but the savage, being a stout lusty fellow,
closing in with him, had thrown him dewn (being
faint), and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quit-
ting his sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot
the savage through the body, and killed him upon
the spot, before I, who was running to help, could
come near him.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three,
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with ; and
the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him
one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but
as he was not able to run, they both got from him
into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and kil-
led one of them; but the other was too nimble for
him; and though he was wounded, yet he plunged
into the sea, and swam with all his might off to
those who were left in the canoe; which three in the
canoe, with one wounded, who we know not whether
he died or know, were all that escaped our hands
of one-and-twenty. The account of the rest is as
follows:
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of
them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not
dead. -
*
21 in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or
three shot at them, I did not find that he hit any of
them: Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was
very anxious about their escape; least, carrying the
news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes,
and devour us by mere multitudes; so I consented
to pursue them by sea; and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand
and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter,
and almost dead with fear, not knowing what
the matter was; for he had not been able to look up
over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck
and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had
really little life in him.
Iimmediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems still, that he was
only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling
out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, dan-
ced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a
good while before I could make him speak to me,
or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved
me, to see what exstacy and filial affection had
worked in this poor savage, at the sight of his fa-
ther, and of his being delivered from death; nor in-
deed can I describe half the extravagancies of his
affection after this; for he went into the boat and
out of the boat a great many times: when he went
in to him, he would sit down by him, open his
breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom,
half an hour together to nourish it: then he took his
arms and ancles, which were numbed and stiff with
the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I perceiving what the case was, gave
him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the ca-
roe with the other savages, who were now gotten
almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that
we did not; for it blew so hard within two hours
after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live, or that they ever reached to their own
coast.
But to return to Friday: he was so busy about
his father, that I could not find in my heart to take
him off for some time; but after I thought he could
leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his
father any bread He shook his head, and said,
“None : ugly dog eat all up self.” So I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but
he would not taste it, but carried it to his father:
I had in my pocket also two or three bunches of
my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these
raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and
run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran
at such a rate (for he was the swiftest fellow of his
feet that ever I saw)—I say he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant;
and though I called and hallooed too after him, it
was all one; away he went, and in a quarter of an
hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast
as he went ; and as he came nearer, I found his
pace was slacker, because he had something in his
hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water; and that he had got two more
cakes, or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father: however,
as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it:
this water revived his father more than all the rum
or spirits I had given him; for he was just fainting
with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him, to know
if there was any water left? he said “Yes;” and
Ibade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in
as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of
the cakes that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too,
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing him-
self upon a green place, under the shade of a tree,
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very
much swelled with the rude bandage he had been
tied with: when I saw that upon Friday's coming
to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and
took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him,
and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked up in
my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thank-
5
fulness that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted him-
self in the fight, that he could not stand upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ancles were so swelled and so
painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turned his head about, to see if his father was
in the same place and posture as he left him sit-
ting; and at last he found he was not to be seen;
at which he started up, and, without speaking a
word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he
went: but when he came, he only found he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs: so Friday came
back to me presently, and I then spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him: but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the
Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the in-
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him
close to his father, and presently stepping out again,
VO L. II. G
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the
shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too; so he brought them both
safe into our creek; and leaving them in the boat,
runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, Ispoke to him, and asked him whither he went 2
He told me, “Go fetch more boat;” so away he
went, like the wind; for sure never man or horse
ran iike him, and he had the other canoe in the
creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday
knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I car-
ried them up both together upon it between us;
but when we got them to the outside of our wall or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before;
for it was impossible to get them over; and I was
resolved not to break it down : so I set to work
again; and Friday and I, in about two hours time,
made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails,
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the
space without our outward fence, and between that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted:
and here we made two beds of such things as I
had; viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets laid up-
on it to lie on, and another to cover them on each
bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought my-
self very rich in subjects; and it was a merry re-
flection which I frequently made, how like a king
I looked: first of all, the whole country was my
own mere property; so that I had an undoubted
right of dominion: 2dly, My people were perfect-
ly subjected : I was absolute lord and lawgiver;
they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to
lay down their lives, if there had been occasion for
it, for me: it was remarkable too, I had but three
subjects, and they were of three different religions.
My man Friday was a Protestant, his father a Pagan
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist:
however, I allowed liberty of conscience through-
out my dominions: but this by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to
rest them upon, I began to think of making some
provision for them; and the first thing I did, I or-
dered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed:
then I cut off the hind quarter, and, chopping it in-
to small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
758803 A
you, of flesh and broth; having put some barley
and rice also into the broth; and as I cooked it
without doors (for I made no fire within my inner
wall), so I carried it all into the new tent; and ha-
ving set a table there for them, I sat down and ate
my dinner also with them; and, as well as I could,
cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the
language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead
bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun,
and would presently be offensive; and I also-or-
dered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar-
barous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and
which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I
could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all
which he punctually performed, and defaced the
very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it
was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation
with my two new subjects; and first I set Friday
to inquire of his father, what he thought of the
escape of the savages in that canoe and whither
he might expect a return of them with a power
too great for us to resist? His first opinion was,
that the savages in the boat never could live out
the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be
devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were
cast away; but as to what they would do if they
came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it
was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully fright-
ed with the manner of being attacked, the noise,
and the fire, that he believed they would tell their
people they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, and not by the hand of man; and that the
two which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were two
heavenly spirits or furies come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said,
he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in
their language to one another; for it was impossi-
ble for them to conceive that a man should dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, with-
out lifting up the hand, as was done now. And
this old savage was in the right; for as I un-
derstood since by other hands, the savages of that
part never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards. They were so terrified with the accounts
given by these four men (for it seems they did
escape the sea), that they believed, whoever went
to that enchanted island, would be destroyed with
fire from the gods. w
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was un-
der continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, I and all my army;
for as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open
field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the fear of their coming wore off; and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the
main into consideration, being likewise assured by
Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation on his account, if I would go.
CHAP. V.
I learn from the Spaniard that there were Sirteen more
of his Countrymen among the Savages—The Spani-
ard and Friday's Father well Armed, sail on a
mission to the Continent—I Discover an English
ship lying at anchor off the Island–Her Boat comes
on shore with three Prisoners—The Crew straggle in-
to the Woods, their Boat being aground—Discover
myself to the Prisoners, who prove to be the Cap-
tain and Mate of the Vessel, and a Passenger—Se-
cure the Mutineers.
Bur my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
I understood, that there were sixteen more of his
countrymen and Portuguese, who having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived
there at peace indeed with the savages, but were
very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for
life: I asked him all the particulars of their voyage;
and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being direct-
ed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five
Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out
of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned when first the ship was lost; and that
these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards,
and arrived almost starved on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every
moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless; for that they had neither
powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having
spoiled all their powder, but a little which they
used at their first landing to provide themselves
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of
them there; and if they had formed no design of
making any escape He said, they had many con-
sultations about it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, or provisions of any kind,
their counsels always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him, how he thought they would receive
a proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done I told him with freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put
my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no
inherent virtue in the nature of man; nor did men
always square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advanta-
ges they expected: I told him, it would be very
hard, that I should be the instrument of their de-
liverance, and that they should afterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an English-
man was certain to be made a sacrifice, what neces-
sity, or what accident soever, brought him thither;
and that I had rather be delivered up to the sa-
vages, and be devoured alive, than fallinto the merci-
less claws of the priests, and be carried into the In-
quisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if
they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away
either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands
or Spanish coast northward: but that if in requital
they should, when I had put weapons into their
hands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and
make my case worse than it was before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable,
and that they were so sensible of it, that he belie-
ved they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliver.
ance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them
with the old man, and discourse with them about
7
it, and return again, and bring me their answer:
that he would make conditions with them upon their
solemn oath, that they would be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and
that they should swear upon the holy Sacraments
and Gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Chris-
tian country as I should agree to, and no other;
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such coun-
try as I intended; and that he would bring a
contract from them under their hands for that pur-
pose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he
lived, till I gave him order; and that he would take
my side to the last drop of blood, if there should
happen the least breach of faith among his country-
men.
He told me, they were all of them very civil
honest men, and they were under the greatest dis-
tress imaginable, having neither weapons or clothes,
nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of
the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to
their own country; and that he was sure, if I
would undertake their relief, they would live and
die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
relieve them if possible, and to send the old savage
and this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when
he had gotten all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had
so much prudence in it on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be
very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a
year. The case was this:
He had been with us now about a month; du-
ring which time I had let him see in what manner
I had provided, with the assistance of Providence,
for my support; and he saw evidently what stock
of corn and rice I had laid up; which, as it was
more than sufficient for myself, so it was not suffi-
cient, at least without good husbandry, for my fa-
mily, now it was increased to number four: but
much less would it be sufficient, if his countrymen,
who were, as he said, fourteen still alive, should
come over; and least of all would it be sufficient to
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a
voyage to any of the Christian colonies of Ameri-
ca. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable, to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare
seed to sow; and that we should wait another har-
vest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difficulty into another: “You know,” says he,
“ the children of Israel, though they rejoiced at
first at their being delivered out of Egypt, yet re-
belled even against God himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wilder-
ness.” -
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased
with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his
fidelity. So we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted; and in about a month's time, by the
end of which it was seed-time, we had gotten as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed
twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars
of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to
spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley
sufficient for our own food for the six months that
we had to expect our crop, that is to say, reckon-
ing from the time we set our seed aside for sowing;
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number
being sufficient to put us out of fear of the sava-
ges, if they had come, unless their number had
been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as here we had
our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was
impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it
out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out several
trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and
then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted
my thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct
their work: I shewed them with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks,
and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick: what prodigious labour
it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my
little flock of tame goats as much as I could; and
to this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard to
go out one day, and myself with Friday the next
day, for we took our turns: and by this means we
got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock: but above all,
the season for curing the grapes coming on, I cau-
sed such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in
the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we should
have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with
our bread, was a great part of our food, and very
good living too, I assure you; for it is an exceed-
ing nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order;
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in
the island, but, however, it was enough to answer
our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we
brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the
rice, which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had
been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready
for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victual-
ed our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of America. When we had
thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we
fell to work to make more wicker-work; viz. great
baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard
was very handy and dexterous at this part, and
often blamed me, that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need
of it. And now having a full supply of food for
all the guests expected, I gave the Spaniard leave
to go over to the main, to see what he could do
with those he left behind him there: I gave him a
strict charge in writing not to bring any man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of
himself and of the old savage, that he would no
way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind to send
for them, in order to their deliverance; but that
they would stand by and defend him against all
such attempts; and wherever they went, would be
entirely under, and subjected to his command; and
that this should be put in writing, and signed with
their hands: how we were to have this done, when
I knew they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was
a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the
old savage (the father of Friday), went away in
one of the canoes, which they might be said to
come in, or rather were brought in, when they came
as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on
it, and about eight charges of powder and ball,
charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent oc-
casions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first mea-
sures used by me in view of my deliverance for
now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suf-
ficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for their countrymen for about eight days time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go,
agreeing with them about a signal they should
hang out at their return, by which I should know
13
them again, when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day
that the moon was at the full; by my account in
the month of October; but as for the exact reckon-
ing of days, after I had once lost it, I could never
recover it again; nor had I kept even the number
of years so punctually, as to be sure that I was
right, though, as it proved when I afterwards exa-
mined my account, I found I had kept a true reck-
oning of years.
It was no less than eight days I waited for
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident in-
tervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been
heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running
in to me, and called aloud, “Master, master, they
are come, they are come.”
I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went
out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
my little grove, which (by the way) was by this
time grown to be a very thickwood; I say, regardless
of danger, I went without my arms, which was not
my custom to do; but I was surprised, when, turn-
ing my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and a half's distance, standing in
for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as
they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in. Also I observed presently, that
they did not come from that side which the shore
lay on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him
lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we did not know yet whether they
were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspec-
tive-glass, to see what I could make of them; and
having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the
top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of any thing, and to take my view the
plainer without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my
eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half's distance from me,
S. S. E. but not above a league and a half from the
shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one whom I had rea-
son to believe was manned by my own country-
men, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot
describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung
about me, I cannot tell from whence they came,
bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business
WOL. II. H
an English ship could have in that part of the
world; since it was not the way to or from any
part of the world where the English had any traf.
fic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive
them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had
better continue as I was, than fall into the hands
of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices
of danger which sometimes are given him when he
may think there is no possibility of its being real.
That such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few that have made any observation of things can
deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invi-
sible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot
doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to
warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they
are from some friendly agent, (whether supreme, or
inferior and subordinate, is not the question,) and
that they are given for our good :
The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been
made cautious by this secret admonition, come
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably,
and in a far worse condition than before, as you will
see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but
10
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at for the conve-
nience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they would have landed just, as I may say, at
my door, and would have soon beaten me out of
my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one
or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof three
of them I found were unarmed, and (as I thought)
bound; and when the first four or five of them were
jumped on shore, they took those three out of the
boat as prisoners: one of the three I could per-
ceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty,
affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extrava-
gance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be; Fri-
day called out to me in English, as well as he
could, “O master! you see English mans eat pri-
soners as well as savage mans.”—“Why,” said I,
“Friday, do you think they are going to eat them
then *-* Yes,” says Friday, “ they will eat
them. “No, no,” said I, “Friday; I am afraid
they will murder them indeed; but you may be
sure they will not eat them.”
All this while I had no thought of what the mat-
ter really was, but stood trembling with the horror
of the sight, expecting every moment when the
three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cut-
lass (as the seamen call it) or sword, to strike one
of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment, at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him; or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that I might have rescued the three men;
for I saw no fire-arms they had among them; but
it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of
the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed also, that
the three other men had liberty to go where they
pleased; but they sat down all three upon the
ground very pensive, and looked like men in de-
spair. -
This put me in mind of the first time when I
came on shore, and began to look about me; how
I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked
round me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and
how I lodged in the tree all night for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I
was to receive by the providential driving of the
ship nearer the land, by the storms and tides, by
which I have since been so long nourished and
supported; so these three poor desolate men knew
nothing how certain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how ef-
fectually and really they were in a condition of
safety, at the same time they thought themselves
lost, and their case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and
so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that
in the worst circumstances they have always some-
thing to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and
partly while they rambled about to see what kind
of place they were in, they had carelessly staid till
the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed consi-
derably away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I
found afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who
were straggling about, upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength
to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the
shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are,
perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled
about the country again; and I heard one of them
say aloud to another (calling them off from the
boat), “Why, let her alone, Jack, can’t ye she'll
float next tide.” By which I was fully confirmed
in the main inquiry, of what countrymen they
Were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once da-
ring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the top of the hill;
and very glad I was, to think how well it was for-
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours be-
fore the boat could be on float again, and by that
time it would be dark, and I might be more at li-
berty to see their motions, and to hear their dis-
course, if they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle,
as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had
at first: I ordered Friday also, whom I had made
an excellent marksman with his gun, to load him-
self with arms: I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure, in-
deed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-
skin coat on, with the great cap I mentioned, a
naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and a gun
upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have
made any attempt till it was dark; but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in
short they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, were all laid down. to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their
condition to get any sleep, were however set down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight
of any of the rest,
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immedi-
ately I marched in the figure above, my man Fri-
day at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a
spectre-like figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could,
and then, before any of them saw me, I called
aloud to them in Spanish, “What are ye, gentle-
men º’”
They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the un-
couth figure that I made: they made no answer at
all, but I thought I perceived them just going to
fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:
“Gentlemen,” said I, “do not be surprised at me;
perhaps you may have a friend near you, when you
did not expect it.” “ He must be sent directly
from Heaven then,” said one of them very gravely
to me, pulling off his hat at the same time, “for
our condition is past the help of man. “All help
is from Heaven, Sir,” said I: “but can you put
a stranger in the way how to help you? For you
seem to me to be in some great distress: I saw
you when you landed; and when you seemed to
make application to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.”
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, return-
of Robinson CRUSOE. 191
ed, “Am I talking to God or man Is it a real man,
or an angel?”—“Be in no fear about that, Sir,”
said I: “if God had sent an angel to relieve you,
he would have come better clothed, and armed
after another manner than you see me in; pray
lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman,
and disposed to assist you; you see I have one ser-
vant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us
freely can we serve you? What is your case ?”
“Our case,” said he, “Sir, is too long to tell
you, while our murderers are so near; but in short,
Sir, I was commander of that ship; my men ha-
ving mutinied against me, they have been hardly
prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have
set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
two men with me, one my mate, the other a pas-
senger, where we expected to perish, believing -'.e
place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it.”
“Where are those brutes, your enemies?” said
I; “do you know where they are gone *—“There
they are, Sir,” said he, “pointing to a thicket of
trees; “my heart trembles for fear they have seen
us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
certainly murder us all.”
“Have they any fire-arms ?” said I: he answer-
ed, “They had only two pieces, and one which
they left in the boat.”—“ Well then,” said I,
“ leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it
is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we ra-
ther take them prisoners ?” He told me there were
two desperate villains among them, that it was
scarce safe to shew any mercy to; but if they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to
their duty: I asked him, which they were He
told me, he could not at that distance describe
them; but he would obey my orders in any thing
I would direct. “Well,” said I, “ let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve farther;” so they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
“Look you, Sir,” said I, “if I venture upon
your deliverance, are you willing to make two con-
ditions with me * He anticipated my proposals,
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if re-
covered, should be wholly directed and command-
ed by me in every thing; and if the ship was not
recovered, he would live and die with me in what
part of the world soever I would send him; and
the two other men said the same.
“Well,” said I, “my conditions are but two: 1.
That while you stay on this island with me, you
will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms into your hands, you will upon all occa-
sions give them up to me, and do no prejudice to
me or mine, upon this island, and in the mean time
to be governed by orders.
“2. That if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, pas-
sage-free.”
He gave me all the assurance that the invention
and faith of a man could devise, that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands; and
besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions as long as he lived.
“Well then,” said I, “ here are three muskets
for you, with powder and ball; tell me next what
you think is proper to be done.” He shewed all
the testimony of his gratitude that he was able;
but offered to be wholly guided by me: I told him,
I thought it was hard venturing any thing, but the
best method I could think of was, to fire upon them
at once, as they lay ; and if any were not killed at
the first volley, and offered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it; but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of
all the mutiny in the ship; and if they escaped,
we should be undone still; for they would go on
board, and bring the whole ship's company, and
destroy us all. “Well then,” said I, “ necessity
legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to
save our lives.” However, seeing him still cau-
tious of shedding blood, I told him, they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them
on their feet. I asked him, if either of them were
the men who he had said were the heads of the
mutiny He said, No. “Well then,” said I, “ you
may let them escape, and Providence seems to
have wakened them on purpose to save them-
selves.” “Now,” said I, “if the rest escape you,
it is your fault.”
Animated with this, he took the musket I had
given him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, with each man a piece
in his hand: the two men, who were with him, go-
ing first, made some noise, at which one of the sea-
men, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late
then; for the moment he cried out, they fired, I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving
his own piece: they had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded;
but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other; but the cap-
tain stepping to him, told him it was too late to
cry for help; he should call upon God to forgive
his villany; and with that word knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more: there were three more in the company, and
one of them was also slightly wounded. By this
time I was come; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare
their lives, if they would give him any assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that
could be desired, and he was willing to believe them,
and spare their lives, which I was not against; only
I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her,
and bring away the oars and sail, which they did;
and by and by, three straggling men, that were
(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back
upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing their cap-
tain who before was their prisoner, now their con-
queror, they submitted to be bound also; and so
our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should
inquire into one another's circumstances: I began
first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu-
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnish-
ed with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as
my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affect-
ed him deeply; but when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to have been pre-
served there on purpose to save his life, the tears
ran down his face, and he could not speak a word
Inore.
After this communication was at an end, I car-
ried him and his two men into my apartments,
leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the
top of the house; where I refreshed them with
such provisions as I had, and shewed them all the
contrivances I had made during my long, long in-
habiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was per-
fectly amazing; but, above all, the captain admi-
red my fortification; and how perfectly I had con-
cealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which,
having now been planted near twenty years, and
the trees growing much faster than in England, was
become a little wood, and so thick, that it was un-
passable in any part of it, but at that one side where
I had reserved my little winding passage into it:
this I told him was my castle, and my residence;
but that I had a seat in the country, as most prin-
ces have, whether I could retreat upon occasion,
and I would shew him that too another time; but
at present our business was to consider how to re-
cover the ship. He agreed with me as to that;
but told me he was perfectly at a loss what mea-
sure to take: for that there were still six-and-twenty
hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives
to the law, would be hardened in it now by despe-
ration; and would carry it on, knowing that, if
they were reduced, they should be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any
of the English colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a num-
ber as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said,
and found it was a very rational conclusion, and
that therefore something was to be resolved on
very speedily, as well to draw the men on board
into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent
their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon
this, it presently occurred to me, that in a little
while, the ship's crew wondering what was become
of their comrades, and of the boat, would certain-
ly come on shore in their other boat to see for
them; and that then perhaps they might come
armed, and be too strong for us: this he allowed
was rational. -
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to
do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach,
so that they might not carry her off; and taking
everything out of her, leaving her so far useless as
not to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on
board, took the arms which were left on board out
of her, and whatever else we found there, which
was a bottle of brandy and another of rum, a few
biscuit cakes, an horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvas; the sugar was five
or six pounds; all which was very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were car-
ried before as above,) we knocked a great hole in
her bottom, that if they had come strong enough
to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
could be capable to recover the ship; but my view
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did
not much question to make her fit again to carry
us away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our
friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them
still in my thoughts.
CHAP. VI.
The Ship makes Signals for her Boat—On receiving
no answer, she sends another Boat on Shore—Me-
thods by which we secure this Boat's Crew, and re-
cover the Ship.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and
had first by main strength heaved the boat up up-
on the beach, so high that the tide would not float
her off at high water mark; and, besides, had
broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should
do; we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her
make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for the
boat to come on board; but no boat stirred ; and
they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we
saw them (by the help of our glasses) hoist another
boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found,
WOL. II. I
as they approached, that there were no less than
ten men in her, and that they had fire arms with
them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the
shore, we had a full view of them as they came,
and a plain sight of the men, even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east
of the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to
come to the same place where the other had land-
ed, and where the boat lay. -
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters
of all the men in the boat; of whom he said that
there were three very honest fellows, who he was
sure were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being
overpowered and frighted: but that for the boat-
swain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among
them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as
any of the ship's crew; and were, no doubt, made
desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
prehensive he was, that they would be too power-
ful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our
circumstances were past the operations of fear:
that seeing almost every condition that could be
was better than that we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether
death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance: I
asked him, what he thought of the circumstances
of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for “And where, Sir,” said I,
“ is your belief of my being preserved here on
purpose to save your life, which elevated you a
little while ago? For my part,” said I, “ there
seems to be one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it.”—“What's that, ” says he. “Why,” said I,
“’tis that as you say, there are three or four honest
fellows among them, which should be spared; had
they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I
should have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands: for, de-
pend upon it, every man of them that comes
ashore, are our own, and shall die or live as they
behave to us.”
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheer-
ful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged
him; so we set vigorously to our business. We
had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming
from the ship, considered of separating our pri-
soners, and had indeed secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less as-
sured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of
the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out
of the woods, if they could have delivered them-
selves: here they left them bound, but gave them
provisions, and promised them, if they continued
there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had
such good usage as to have provisions and a light
left them; for Friday gave them candles (such as
we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of
them were kept pinioned indeed, because the cap-
tain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service upon their captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly enga-
ging to live and die with us; so, with them and the
three honest men, we were seven men well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were a-coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said, there were three
or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their
other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach,
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after
them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid
they would rather have left the boat at an anchor,
some distance from the shore, with some hands in
her to guard her; and so we should not be able to
seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran
all to the other boat; and it was easy to see they
were under a great surprise to find her stripped as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
her bottom.
After they had mused a while upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they could make their com-
panions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their
small arms, which indeed we heard, and the echoes
made the woods ring; but it was all one : those in
the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those
in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this,
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go
all on board again to their ship, and let them know
there, that the men were all murdered, and the
long boat staved; accordingly, they immediately
launched the boat again, and got all of them o
board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again and set sail, giving their comrades
- up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship which
he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat,
but we perceived them all coming on shore again;
but with this new measure in their conduct, which
it seems they consulted together upon; viz. to
leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on
shore, and go up into the country to look for their
fellows. w
This was a great disappointment to us; for now
we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us
if we let the boat escape, because they would then
row away to the ship; and then the rest of them
would be sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our re-
covering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained
in the boat put her off to a good distance from the
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so
that it was impossible for us to come at them in
the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill, under
which my habitation lay; and we could see them
plainly, though they could not perceive us ; we
13
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them;
or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the
hill, where they could see a great way in the valley
and woods, which lay towards the north-east part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from
one another, they sat down together under a tree,
to consider of it: had they thought fit to have
gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were
too full of apprehensions of danger, to venture to
go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me
upon this consultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps
they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to
make their fellows hear, and that we should all
sally upon them, just at the juncture when their
pieces were all discharged, and they would cer-
tainly yield, and we should have them without
bloodshed. I liked the proposal, provided it was
done while we were near enough to come up to
them, before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still
a long time very irresolute what course to take; at
length I told them, there would be nothing to be
done in my opinion till night; and then, if they
did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find
a way to get between them and the shore, and so
might use some stratagem with them in the boat,
to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient
for their removing, and were very uneasy; when,
after long consultations, we saw them start all up,
and march down toward the sea: it seems, they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over
for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the
shore, I imagined it to be as it really was; that
they had given over their search, and were for
going back again; and the captain, as soon as I
told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the ap-
prehensions of it; but I presently thought of a stra-
tagem to fetch them back again, and which an-
swered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go
over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued; and as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at about half a mile's distance, Ibade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found
the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return
it again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a
round, always answering when the others hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island, and among the
woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to
me, by such ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Fri-
day and the mate hallooed, and they presently
heard them, and answering, run along the shore
westward, towards the voice they heard, when they
were presently stopped by the creek, where the
water being up, they could not get over, and call-
ed for the boat to come up, and set them over, as
indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way into the
creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land,
they took one of the three men out of her to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, ha-
ving fastened her to the stump of a little tree on
the shore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their bu-
siness, I took the rest with me, and, crossing the
creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware, one of them lying on
shore, and the other being in the boat; the fellow
on shore was between sleeping and waking, and
going to start up, the captain, who was foremost,
ran in upon him and knocked him down, and then
called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon
him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this
was, it seems, one of the three who were not so
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and
therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's
mate so well managed their business with the rest,
that they drew them, by hallooing and answering,
from one hill to another, and from one wood to an-
other, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and
indeed they were heartily tired themselves also by
the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to
me before they came back to their boat; and we
could hear the foremost of them, long before they
came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along; and could also hear them answer, and com-
plain how lame and tired they were, and not being
able to come any faster, which was very welcome
news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is
impossible to express their confusion, when they
found the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide
ebbed out, and their two men gone: we could hear
them call to one another in a most lamentable
manner, telling one another they were gotten into
an enchanted island; that either there were inha-
bitants in it, and they should all be murdered; or
else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two com-
rades by their names a great many times, but no
answer: after some time, we could see them, by
the little light there was, run about wringing their
hands, like men in despair; and that sometimes
they would go and sit down in the boat to rest
themselves, then come ashore, and walk about
again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me given them
leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but
I was willing to take them at some advantage, so
to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could;
and especially I was unwilling to hazard the kill-
ing any of our men, knowing the other men were
very well armed : I resolved to wait to see if they
did not separate; and therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer; and ordered
Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands
and feet as close to the ground as they could, that
they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, till the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most de-
jected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them with two more of the crew; the cap-
tain was so eager, at having the principal rogue so
much in his power, that he could hardly have pa-
tience to let him come so near as to be sure of him;
for they only heard his tongue before: but when
they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting
up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men;
viz. myself generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-
general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom he had trusted with
arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the
man they had left in the boat, who was now one of
us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring
them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
them to terms; which fell out just as we desired:
for indeed it was easy to think, as their condition
then was, they would be very willing to capitulate;
so he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
“Tom Smith, Tom Smith.” Tom Smith answered
immediately, “Who's that? Robinson " For it
seems he knew his voice. The other answered,
“Ay, ay; for God’s sake, Tom Smith, throw down
your arms, and yield, or you are all dead men this
moment.”
“Who must we yield to ? where are they "
says Smith again. “Here they are,” says he ,
“here is our captain and fifty men with him, have
been hunting you this two hours; the boatswain is
killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner;
and if you do not yield, you are all lost.”
“Will they give us quarter, then º’ says Tom
Smith, “ and we will yield.” “I’ll go and ask, if
you promise to yield,” says Robinson. So he
asked the captain, and the captain himself then
calls out, “You, Smith, you know my voice, if you
lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins.”
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, “ For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter: what have I done?
they have all been as bad as I;” (which by the
way was not true, either; for it seems this Will
Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the cap-
tain when they first mutinied, and, used him bar-
barously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language): however, the captain told him he
must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to
the governor's mercy, by which he meant me; for
they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had
parleyed with them, and two more, who bound
them all; and then my great army of fifty men,
which, particularly with those three, were in all but
eight, came up and seized upon them all, and upon
their boat, only that I kept myself and one more
out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to
think of seizing the ship; and as for the captain,
now he had leisure to parley with them, he expos-
tulated with them upon the villany of their prac-
tices with him, and at length, upon the farther
wickedness of their design; and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged
hard for their lives: as for that, he told them they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
the island; that they thought they had set him on
shore in a barren uninhabited island; but it had
pleased God so to direct them, that the island was
inhabited, and that the governor was an English-
man; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,
whom he was commanded by the governor to advise
to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged
in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees
to beg the captain to intercede with the governor
for his life; and all the rest begged of him for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to Eng-
land.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our de-
liverance was come, and that it would be a most
easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in
getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the
dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me: when I called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to
the captain, “Captain, the commander calls for
you;” and presently the captain replied, “Tell his
excellency I am just a-coming.” This more per-
fectly amused them; and they all believed that the
commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked won-
derfully well, and resolved to put it in execution
the next morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay: this was
committed to Friday, and the two men who came
on shore with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison;
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men
in their condition.
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it,
of which I have given a full description; and as it
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough, considering they were upon their
behaviour. 22.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word,
to try them, and tell me, whether he thought they
might be trusted or no, to go on board, and sur-
prise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to;
and that though the governor had given them quar-
ter for their lives, as to the present action, yet that
if they were sent to England, they would all be
hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they
would join in such an attempt as to recover the
ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a propo-
sal would be accepted by men in their condition:
they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own
him for a father to them as long as they lived.
“Well,” says the captain, “I must go and tell
the governor what you say, and see what I can do
to bring him to consent to it.” So he brought me
an account of the temper he found them in; and
that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told
him he should go back again, and choose out five
of them, and tell them, that they should see that they
did not want men; but he would take out those five
WOL. II. K
to be his assistants, and that the governor would
keep the other two, and the three that were sent
prisoners to the castle, (my cave,) as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that, if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that
the governor was in earnest; however, they had
no way left them but to accept it; and it was now
the business of the prisoners, as much as of the
captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the ex-
pedition: 1. The captain, his mate, and passenger.
2. Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their characters from the captain,
I had given their liberty, and trusted them with
arms. 3. The other two whom I kept till now in
my bower pinioned; but, upon the captain's motion,
had now released. 4. These five released at last;
so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with these hands on board the ship : for, as for me,
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and
it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep
31
them fast; but Friday went twice a day to them,
to supply them with necessaries; and I made the
other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
where Friday was to take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it
was with the captain, who told them, I was the
person the governor had ordered to look after
them, and that it was the governor's pleasure that
they should not stir any where but by my direc-
tion; that if they did, they should be fetched into
the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never
suffered them to see me as governor, so I now ap-
peared as another person, and spoke of the gover-
nor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him,
but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one,
and man them : he made his passenger captain of
one, with four other men; and himself, and his
mate, and five more, went in the other: and they
contrived their business very well; for they came
up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson
hail them, and tell them he had brought off the
men and the boat, but that it was a long time be-
fore they had found them, and the like; holding
them in a chat, till they came to the ship's side;
when the captain and the mate, entering first with
-->
their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the but end of their mus-
kets; being very faithfully seconded by their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches
to keep them down who were below; when the
other boat, and their men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
skuttle which went down into the cook-room,
making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to
break into the round-house, where the new rebel
captain lay, and, having taken the alarm, was got-
ten up, and with two men and a boy had gotten
fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate with
a crow split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, in-
to the round-house, wounded as he was, and with
his pistol shot the new captain through the head,
the bullets entering at his mouth, and came out
again behind one of his ears; so that he never
spoke a word; upon which the rest yielded, and
the ship was taken effectually without any more
lives being lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the cap-
tain ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the
signal agreed upon with me, to give me notice of
his success; which you may be sure I was very
glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till near two of the clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something sur-
prised with the noise of a gun; and presently start-
ing up, I heard a man call me by the name of go-
vernor, governor' and presently I knew the cap-
tain's voice; when climbing up to the top of the
hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms: “My dear friend and
deliverer,” says he, “there's your ship, for she is
all yours, and so are we, and all that belong to
her.” I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode within a little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her; and the weather being
fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the
mouth of a little creek; and the tide being up, the
captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door.
. I was, at first, ready to sink down with the sur-
prise: for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly
put into my hands, all things easy, and a large
ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased
to go. At first, for some time, I was notable to an-
swer one word; but as he had taken me in his arms,
I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pull-
ed a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram
of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for
me: after I drank it, I sat down upon the ground,
and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a
good while before I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an
ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was;
and he said a thousand kind tender things to me,
to compose and bring me to myself: but such was
the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my
spirits into confusion; at last it broke into tears,
and in a little while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my
deliverer; and we rejoiced together: I told him, I
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to de-
liver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to
be a chain of wonders; that such things as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of
Providence governing the world, and an evidence,
that the eyes of an infinite Power could search into
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness
to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless
Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner pro-
vided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition, but from whom every deliver-
ance must always be acknowledged to proceed
When we had talked a while, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little refreshments, such
as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches who
had been so long his masters had not plundered
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat,
and bids his men bring the things ashore that were
for the governor; and indeed it was a present, as
if I had been one, not that I was to be carried
along with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still, and they were to go without
me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full
of excellent cordial waters; six large bottles of
Madeira wine, the bottles held two quarts apiece;
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good
pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pease, and about a hundred weight o
biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of
flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-
juice, and abundance of other things: but besides
these, and what was a thousand times more useful
to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of
shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little. In a word, he clothed me
from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was any thing in the world of that kind so
unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me
to wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his
good things were brought into my little apartment,
we began to consult what was to be done with the
prisoners we had; for it was worth considering
whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew
to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree;
and the captain said, he knew they were such
rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if he
did carry them away, it must be in irons, as male-
factors, to be delivered over to justice at the first
English colony he could come at; and I found that
the captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that, if he desired it, I
durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke of
to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island: “I should be very glad of
that,” says the captain, “ with all my heart.”
“Well,” said I, “ I will send for them, and talk
with them for you:” so I caused Friday and the
two hostages, for they were now discharged, their
comrades having performed their promise; I say,
I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the
five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came.
After some time, I came thither dressed in my
new habit, and now I was called governor again.
Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused
the men to be brought before me, and I told them,
I had had a full account of their villanous behaviour
to the captain, and how they had run away with
the ship, and were preparing to commit farther rob-
‘beries; but that Providence had ensnared them in
their own ways, and that they were fallen into the
pit which they had digged for others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship
had been seized, that she lay now in the road, and
they might see by and by, that their new captain
had received the reward of his villany; for that
they might see him hanging at the yard-arm : that
as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say,
why I should not execute them as pirates taken in
the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt
I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy: but I
told them I knew not what mercy to shew them;
for, as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England: and as for the captain,
he could not carry them to England, other than as
prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny, and run-
ning away with the ship; the consequence of which
they must needs know, would be the gallows; so
that I could not tell which was best for them, un-
less they had a mind to take their fate in the
island; if they desired that, I did not care, as I had
liberty to leave it: I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift
on shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said
they would much rather venture to stay there, than
to be carried to England to be hanged; so I left it
on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some dif-
ficulty of it, as if he durst not leave them there;
upon this I seemed to be a little angry with the
captain, and told him, that they were my prisoners,
not his; and that seeing I had offered them so
much favour, I would be as good as my word; and
that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I would.
set them at liberty as I found them; and if he did
not like that, he might take them again if he could
catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I
accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them re-
tire into the woods, to the place whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some am-
munition, and some directions how they should live
very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain, that I would stay that night
to prepare my things; and desired him to go on
board in the mean time, and keep all right in the
ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for
me: ordering him in the mean time to cause the
new captain who was killed, to be hanged at the
yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men
up to me to my apartment, and entered seriously
into discourse with them of their circumstances: I
told them, I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain carried them away, they would
certainly be hanged: I shewed them their captain
hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them
they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the
way of making it easy to them: accordingly I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; shewed them my fortifications, the
way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to
make them easy. I told them the story of the
sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected; for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. -
I left them my fire-arms; viz. five muskets,
three fowling-pieces, and three swords: I had
about a barrel of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the way I managed the
goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, to
make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own
story; and I told them, I would prevail.with the
captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder
more, and some garden-seed, which I told them I
would have been very glad of; also I gave them
the bag of pease which the captain had brought me
to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase
them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day
and went on board the ship; we prepared imme-
diately to sail, but did not weigh that night; the
next morning early, two of the five men came
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most
lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to
be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they
should be murdered; and begged the captain to
take them on board though he hanged them im-
mediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no
power without me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they
were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled; after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on
shore, the tide being up, with the things promised
to the men, to which the captain, at my interces-
sion, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for: I
also encouraged them, by telling them, that if it
lay in my way to send a vessel to take them in, I
would not forget them.
CHAP. VII.
I take leave of the Island, and, after a long Voyage,
arrive in England–Go down into Yorkshire, and
find the greaterpart of my Family dead—Resolve to
go to Lisbon for information respecting my Plan-
tation at the Brazils–Meet an old Friend there,
by whose means I become rich—Set out for Eng-
land over land—Much annoyed by Wolves on the
road.
WHEN I took leave of this island, I carried on
board for relics the great goat-skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also
I forgot not to take the money I formerly mention-
ed, which had lain by me so long useless that it .
was grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly
pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and
handled; and also the money I found in the wreck
of the Spanish ship. -
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of De-
cember, as I found by the ship's account, in the
year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and-
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days:
being delivered from the second captivity the same
day of the month that I first made my escape in
the barco-longo, from among the moors of Salee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the eleventh of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was a perfect
stranger to all the world, as if I had never been
known there: my benefactor, and faithful steward,
whom I had left in trust with my money, was alive,
but had had great misfortunes in the world, was
become a widow the second time, and very low in
the world: I made her easy as to what she owed
me, assuring her, I would give her no trouble;
but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would
indeed allow me to do but little for her: but I
assured her, I would never forget her former kind-
ness to me; nor did I forget her, when I had suffi-
cient to help her; as shall be observed in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two
of the children of one of my brothers: and as I
had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provision made for me; so that, in a word,
*
I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that
little money I had, would not do much for me
as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which
I did not expect; and this was, that the master of
the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by
the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
given a very handsome account to the owners, of
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them, and
some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon that
subject, and a present of almost two hundred
pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the
circumstances of my life, and how little way this
would go towards settling me in the world, I re-
solved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brazils, and what was become of my partner,
who, I had reason to suppose, had some years now
given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where
I arrived in April following; my man Friday ac-
companying me very honestly in all these ram-
blings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea,
off the shore of Africa: he was now grown old,
and had left off the sea, having put his son, who
was far from a young man, into his ship; and who
still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not
know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I
soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I
told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my
plantation and my partner : the old man told me,
he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came
away, my partner was living; but the trustees,
whom I had joined with him, to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead; that, however, he be-
lieved that I would have a very good account of
the improvement of the plantation; for that, upon
the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of
the produce of my part of the plantation, to the
procurator fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case
I never came to claim it, one third to the king, and
two thirds to the monastery of St Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
VOL. II. L
_*
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the im-
provement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he as-
sured me, that the steward of the king's revenue
(from lands,) and the provedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along, that the
incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every
year a faithful account of the produce, of which
they received duly my moiety.
I asked him, if he knew to what height of im-
provement he had brought the plantation; and
whether he thought it might be worth looking af.
ter; or whether, on my going thither, I should
meet with no obstruction to my possessing my just
right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon
the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the
best of his remembrance, he had heard, that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems, grant-
ed away to some other monastery, or religious
house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a
year; that, as to my being restored to a quiet pos-
session of it, there was no question to be made of
that, my partner being alive to witness my title,
and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country. Also he told me, that the survivors
I 3
of my two trustees were very fair, honest people,
and very wealthy, and he believed I would not only
have their assistance for putting me in possession,
but would find a very considerable sum of money
in their hands for my account, being the produce
of the farm, while their fathers held the trust, and
before it was given up, as above, which, as he re-
membered, was about twelve years.
I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain, how
it came to pass, that the trustees should thus dis-
pose of my effects, when he knew that I had made
my will, and had made him, the Portuguese cap-
tain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that, as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as
executor, until some certain account should come
of my death; and that, besides, he was not willing
to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that it was
true, he had registered my will, and put in his
claim; and could he have given any account of my
being dead or alive, he would have acted by pro-
curation, and taken possession of the ingenio, (so
they called the sugar-house,) and had given his son,
who was now at the Brazils, order to do it.
“But,” says the old man, “I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so ac-
ceptable to you as the rest; and that is, that believ-
ing you were lost, and all the world believing so,
also, your partner and trustees did offer to account
to me in your name, for six or eight of the first
years of profit, which I received; but there being
at that time,” says he, “great disbursements for in-
creasing the works, building an ingenio, and buying
slaves, it did not amount to near so much as after-
wards it produced: however,” says the old man, “I
shall give you a true account of what I have re-
ceived in all, and how I have disposed of it.”
After a few days farther conference with this
ancient friend, he brought me an account of the six
first years income of my plantation, signed by my
partner, and the merchants trustees, being always
delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the
consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this
account, that every year the income considerably
increased: but, as above, the disbursement being
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old
man let me see, that he was debtor to me four
hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship, he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years
after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his
misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make
use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him
a share in a new ship; “ however, my old friend,”
says he, “ you shall not want a supply in your ne-
cessity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall
be fully satisfied.”
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives
me two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writings of his title to the ship which
his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was
a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both in my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and
kindness of the poor man, to be able to bear this;
and remembering what he had done for me, how he
had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sin-
cere a friend he was now to me, I could hardly re-
frain weeping at what he said to me; therefore first
I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him He told me he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was
my money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he
spoke. In short, I took one hundred of the moi-
dores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them; then I returned him the rest, and
told him, if ever I had possession of the plantation,
I would return the other to him also, as indeed I
afterwards did; and that, as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found
he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from
him.
When this was past, the old man began to ask
me if he should put me in a method to make my
claim to my plantation. I told him, I thought to
go over to it myself. He said, I might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways
enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to my use; and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away
to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public
register, with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that
I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said planta-
tion at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with
a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his ac-
quaintance at the place; and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the re-
turn.
Never anything was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pro-
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared
to be 1174 moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years
more while they kept the effects in their hands, be-
fore the government claimed the administration,
as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they call civil death; and the balance of
this, the value of the plantation increasing, amount-
ed to crusadoes, which made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustines ac-
count, who had received the profits for above four-
teen years; but not being able to account for what
was disposed to the hospital, very honestly decla-
red he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he
acknowledged to my account. As to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's, congra-
tulating me very affectionately upon my being
alive; giving me an account how the estate was
improved, and what it produced a year, with a par-
ticular of the number of squares, or acres, that it
contained; how planted, how many slaves there
were upon it; and, making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave
Marias to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was
alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own, and in the mean
time to give him orders to whom he should deliver
my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding
with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of
his family; and sent me as a present, seven fine
leopard skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa by some other ship which he had sent
thither; and who, it seems, had made a better
voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of ex-
cellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped
me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and
the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning. It is im-
possible to express the flutterings of my very heart,
when I looked over these letters, and especially
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which
brought my letters brought my goods; and the ef.
fects were safe in the Tagus before the letter came
to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew
sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me
a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and
something of the real cause of my illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which
I had relief, and grew well; but I verily believe, if
it had not been eased by the vent given in that
manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master all on a sudden, of above fifty
thousand pounds Sterling in money, and had an
estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of
above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an estate
of lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a con-
dition which I scarce knew how to understand, or
how to compose myself for the enjoyment of.
The first thing I did was to recompense my ori-
ginal benefactor, my good old captain, who had
been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to
me in the beginning, and honest to me at the end.
I shewed him all that was sent me; I told him,
that, next to the providence of Heaven, which dis-
poses all things, it was owing to him; and that it
now lay on me to reward him, which I would do
a hundred-fold. So I first returned to him the hun-
dred moidores I had received of him; then I sent
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general
release or discharge for the four hundred and se-
venty moidores, which he had acknowledged he
owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible;
after which I caused a procuration to be drawn, em-
powering him to be my receiver of the annual pro-
fits of my plantation, and appointing my partner
to account to him, and make the returns by the
usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause in the
end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a-year
to him during his life, out of the effects; and fifty
moidores a-year to his son after him, for his life.
And thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my
course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in-
deed, I had more care upon my head now than I
had in my silent state of life in the island, where I
wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great
charge upon me, and my business was how to se-
cure it: I had never a cave to hide my money in,
or a place where it might lie without lock or key,
till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body
would meddle with it. On the contrary, I knew
wot where to put it, or whom to trust with it; my
old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and
that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils
seemed to summon me thither; but now I could
not tell how to think of going thither till I had set-
tled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe
hands behind me. At first I thought of my old
friend the widow, who, I knew, was honest, and
would be just to me; but then she was in years,
and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go
back to England myself, and take my effects with
Ine.
I was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had been my first benefac-
tor, and she, while it was in her power, my faith-
ful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did,
I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his corre-
spondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to
go find her out, and carry her in money a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort
her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I
lived, have a farther supply. At the same time, I
sent my two sisters in the country, each of then
a hundred pounds, they being, though not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one having
been married, and left a widow; and the other ha-
wing a husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils,
and have settled myself there, for I was, as it were,
naturalized to the place; but I had some little
scruple in my mind about religion, which insensi-
bly drew me back, of which I shall say more pre-
sently. However, it was not religion that kept me
from going thither for the present; and as I had
made no scruple of being openly of the religion of
the country, all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; only that now and then having
of late thought more of it than formerly, when I
began to think of living and dying among them, I
began to regret my having professed myself a Pa-
pist, and thought it might not be the best religion
to die in. -
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me from going to the Brazils, but that
really I did not know with whom to leave my ef-
fects behind me; so I resolved at last to go to Eng-
land with them, where if I arrived, I concluded I
should make some acquaintance, or find some rela-
lations, that would be faithful to me; and accord-
ingly I prepared to go for England with all my
wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first (the Brazil fleet being just going away) resol-
ved to give answers suitable to the just and faith-
ful account of things I had from thence; and first
to the prior of St Augustine I wrote a letter full of
thanks for his just dealings, and the offer of the
eight hundred and seventy-two moidores, which
was undisposed of, which I desired might be given,
five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred
and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should di-
rect, desiring the good Padre's prayers for me, and
the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that so much justice
and honesty called for; as for sending them any
present, they were far above having any occasion
of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging
his industry in the improving the plantation, and
his integrity in increasing the stock of the works;
giving him instructions for his future government
of my part according to the powers I had left with
my old patron, to whom I desired him to send
whatever became due to me, till he should hear
from me more particularly; assuring him, that it
was my intention, not only to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life.
To this I added a very handsome present of some
Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for
such the captain's son informed me he had; with
two pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the best I
could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black bays, and
some Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo,
and turned all my effects into good bills of ex-
change, my next difficulty was, which way to go
to England. I had been accustomed enough to the
sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time; and though I could
give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped
my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind,
and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea,
and this might be one of the reasons. But let no
man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts
in cases of such moment. Two of the ships which
I had singled out to go in, I mean more particu-
larly singled out than any other, that is to say,
so as in one of them to put my things on board,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain;
I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz. one was
taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; so that, in either of those
vessels, I had been made miserable, and in which
most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing,
pressed me earnestly not to go to sea; but either
to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the
Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but
an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so
to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and
so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I
resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I
was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was
by much the pleasanter way; and to make it more
so, my old captain brought an English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing
to travel with me; after which, we picked up two
who were English, and merchants also, and two
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Pa-
ris only: so that we were in all six of us, and five
servants, the two merchants and the two Portuguese
contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, be-
sides my man Friday, who was too much a stran-
ger to be capable of supplying the place of a ser-
vant upon the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon: and our
company being all very well mounted and armed,
we made a little troop, whereof they did me the
honour to call me captain, as well because I was
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and
indeed was the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea
journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my
land journals. But some adventures that happened
to us in this tedious and difficult journey, I must
not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time
to see the court of Spain, and to see what was
worth observing; but it being the latter part of the
summer, we hastened away, and set out from Ma-
drid about the middle of October. But when we
came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at
several towns on the way, with an account that so
much snow was fallen on the French side of the
mountains, that several travellers were obliged to
come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted,
at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed; and to me, that had been always used
to a hot climate, and indeed to countries where we
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insuf-
ferable; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it was
surprising: to come but ten days before out of the
Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm,
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from
the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumb-
ing and perishing of our fingers and toes, was very
strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold
weather, which he had never seen or felt before in
his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampe-
luna, it continued snowing with so much violence,
and so long, that the people said, winter was come
before its time; and the roads, which were difficult
before, were now quite impassable: in a word, the
snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel;
and being not hard frozen, as is the case in north-
ern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We staid
no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when
(seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of
its being better, for it was the severest winter all
over Europe that had been known in many years)
I proposed that we should all go away to Fontara-
WOL. II. M
bia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which
was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came
in four French gentlemen, who having been stop-
ped on the French side of the passes, as we were
on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, tra-
versing the country near the head of Languedoc,
had brought them over the mountains by such
ways, that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; and where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to
bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would
undertake to carry us the same way, with no ha-
zard from the snow, provided we were armed suf-
ficiently to protect us from wild beasts: for he
said, upon these great snows, it was frequent for
some wolves to shew themselves at the foot of the
mountains, being made ravenous for want of food,
the ground being covered with snow. We told
him we were well enough prepared for such crea-
tures as they were, if he would ensure us from a
kind of two-legged wolves, which we were told we
were in most danger from, especially on the French
side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go: so we readily agreed
to follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen,
10
with their servants, some French, some Spanish,
who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were
obliged to come back again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November; and in-
deed I was surprised, when, instead of going for-
ward, he came directly back with us, on the same
road that we came from Madrid, above twenty
miles; when having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was plea-
sant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden,
turning to the left, he approached the mountains
another way; and though it is true, the hills and
the precipices looked dreadfully, yet he made so
many tours, such meanders, and led us by such
winding ways, we insensibly passed the height of
the mountains, without being much incumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he shewed us
the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though in-
deed they were at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we
found it snowed one whole day and a night, so fast,
that we could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we
should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that
we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our
guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in
sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after
them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he
had been devoured indeed, before we could have
helped him : one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attacked the man with that violence,
that he had not time, or not presence of mind
enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried
out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next
to me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the
matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the
man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, “O master!
O master!” But, like a bold fellow, rode directly
up to the man, and with his pistol shot the wolf
that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my
man Friday; for he, having been used to that kind
of creature in his country, had no fear upon him,
but went close up to him, and shot him as above;
whereas any of us would have fired at a farther
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf,
or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company,
when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard
on both sides the dismallest howlings of wolves,
and the noise redoubled by the echo of the moun-
tains, that it was to us as if there had been a pro-
digious multitude of them; and perhaps indeed
there was not such a few, as that we had no cause
of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the
other, that had fastened upon the horse, left him
immediately, and fled, having happily fastened
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him
much hurt : the man, indeed, was most hurt; for
the raging creature had bit him twice, once on the
arm, and the other time a little above his knee;
and he was just as it were tumbling down by the
disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and
shot the wolf. -
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Fri-
day’s pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up
as fast as the way (which was very difficult) would
give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us be-
fore, we saw plainly what had been the case, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide; though we
did not presently discern what kind of creature it
was he had killed.
CHAP. VIII.
Strange Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear—Terrible
engagement with a whole army of Wolves—Arrive
in England safely, and settle my Affairs there—I
Marry, and have a Family.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and
in such a surprising manner, as that which followed
between Friday and the bear, which gave us all
(though at first we were surprised and afraid for
him) the greatest diversion imaginable. As the
bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gal-
lop as the wolf does, which is swift and light; so he
has two particular qualities, which generally are
the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are
not his proper prey, I say not his proper prey, be-
cause though I can't say what excessive hunger
might do, which was now their case, the ground
being all covered with snow; yet as to men, he
does not usually attempt them, unless they first at-
tack him; on the contrary, if you meet him in the
woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't
meddle with you: yet then you must take care to
be very civil to him, and give him the road; for
he is a very nice gentleman, he won't go a step
out of the way for a prince; nay, if you are really
afraid, your best way is to look another way, and
keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and
stand still, and look stedfastly at him, he takes it
for an affront; and if you throw or toss any thing
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of
stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an af-
front, and sets all other business aside to pursue
his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in point
of honour, and this is his first quality; the next is,
that if he be once affronted, he will never leave
you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but fol-
low at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and
when we came up to him, he was helping him off
from his horse; for the man was both hurt and
frighted, and indeed the last more than the first;
when on a sudden, we espied the bear come out
of the wood, and a very monstrous one it was, the
biggest by far that ever I saw: we were all a little
surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fel-
low's countenance: “O ! O! O!” says Friday,
three times, pointing to him, “O master! you
give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him, me
makee you good laugh.”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased:
“You fool you,” said I, “he will eat you up.”—
“Eatee me up ! eatee me up !” says Friday twice
over again; “me eatee him up; me make you
good laugh; you all stay here, me shew you good
laugh.” So down he sits, and gets his boots off in
a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call
the flat shoes they wear,) and which he had in his
pocket, and gives my other servant his horse, and
with his gun away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty
near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand
him: “Hark ye, hark ye,” says Friday, “me
speakee wit you.” We followed at a distance; for
now being come down to the Gascoigne side of the
mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country was plain, and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone, and throws at him, and hit him just on the
head; but did him no more harm than if he had
thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's
end; for the rogue was so void of fear, that he did
it purely to make the bear follow him, and shew
us some laugh, as he called it. -
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him,
he turns about, and comes after him, taking de-
vilish long strides, and shuffling along at a strange
rate, so as he would put a horse to a middling
gallop. Away runs Friday, and takes his course,
as if he ran towards us for help; so we all resol-
ved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was
going about his own business another way; and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear
upon us, and then run away; and I called out,
“You dog,” said I, “is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature.” He hears me, and cries out,
“No shoot, no shoot, stand still, you get much
laugh;” and as the nimble creature ran two feet
for the beast's one, he turned on a sudden, on one
side of us, and seeing a great oak tree, fit for his
purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and doubling
his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his
gun down upon the ground, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. -
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed
at a distance. The first thing he did, he stopped
at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly,
as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my
life see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the
bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small of a large limb of the tree, and the
bear got about half way to him. As soon as the
bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree
was weaker, “Ha” says he to us, “ now you see
me teachee the bear dance;” so he falls a-jumping,
and shaking the bough, at which the bear began
to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind
him, to see how he should get back; then indeed
we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal: when he sees him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had sup-
posed the bear could speak English, “What, you
come no farther? Pray you come farther.” So he
left jumping and shaking the bough : and the bear,
just as if he understood what he said, did come a
little farther; then he fell a-jumping again, and
the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him
on the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and
we would shoot the bear; but he cried out ear-
nestly, “O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then;” he would have said by and by. How-
So he falls a-jumping, and shaking the bough, at which
the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to
look behind him, to see how he should get back.
Wo L. II. Page£6.
.*

14
!
|

ever, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much,
and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laugh-
ing enough indeed, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do; for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found
the bear was too cunning for that too; for he
would not get out far enough to be thrown down,
but clings fast with his great broad claws and feet,
so that we could not imagine what would be the
end of it, and where the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for
seeing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that
he would not be persuaded to come any farther;
“Well, well,” said Friday “you no come farther,
me go, me go; you no come to me, me come to
you;” and upon this he goes out to the smallest
end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet; and away he ran to his gun,
takes it up, and stands still.
“Well,” said I to him, “Friday, what will you
do now * Why don't you shoot him *—“No
shoot,” says Friday, “no yet; me shoot now me
no kill; me stay, give you one more laugh; and
indeed so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and
coming backward till he got into the body of the
tree; then with the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws,
and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. At
this juncture, and just before he could set his hind
feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to him
clapped the muzle of his piece into his ear, and
shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased by our
looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud; “So
we kill bear in my country,” says Friday. “So you
kill them?” said I; “why, you have no guns.”
—“No,” says he, “no guns, but shoot great much
long arrow.”
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but
we were still in a wild place, and our guide very
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the
howling of wolves ran much in my head; and in-
deed except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I
never heard anything that filled me with so much
horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called
us off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we
should certainly have taken the skin of this mon-
strous creature off, which was worth saving; but
we had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened
us; so we left him, and went forward on our jour-
ney.
The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains;
and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards,
were come down into the forest and plain country,
pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done
a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they
surprised the country-people, killed a great many
of their sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which
our guide told us, if there were any more wolves
in the country, we should find them there; and
this was a small plain, surrounded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile or lane, which
we were to pass to get through the wood, and then
we should come to the village where we were to
lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sunset, when
we came into the plain. We met with nothing in
the first wood, except that in a little plain within
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over,
we saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed
one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view: they took no notice
of us, and were gone and out of sight in a few mo-
mentS.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a
ready posture; for he believed there were more
wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through
that wood, which was near half a league, and en-
tered the plain: as soon as we came into the plain,
we had occasion enough to look about us. The
first object we met with was a dead horse, that is to
say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and
at least a dozen of them at work; we could not say
eating of him, but picking of his bones rather; for
they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their
feast, neither did they take much notice of us; Fri-
day would have let fly at them, but I would not
suffer him by any means; for I found we were like
to have more business upon our hands than we
were aware of. We were not half gone over the
plain, but we began to hear the wolves howl in the
woods, on our left, in a frightful manner; and pre-
sently after we saw about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them
in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by ex-
perienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them; but found to draw ourselves in a
close line, was the only way; so we formed in a
moment; but, that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered, that only every other man
should fire; and that the others, who had not fired,
should stand ready to give them a second volley
immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us; and that then those who had fired at first,
should not pretend to load their fusils again, but
stand ready, with every one a pistol, for we were
all armed with a fusil and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six
vollies, half of us at a time; however, at present
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified, as
well with the noise as with the fire; four of them
being shot in the head, dropped; several others
were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could
see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering
that I had been told, that the fiercest creatures
were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all
our company to halloo as loud as we could, and I
found the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon
our shout, they began to retire, and turn about;
then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their
rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they
went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again,
and that we might lose no time, we kept going;
but we had but little more than loaded our fusils,
and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard
a terrible noise in the same wood on our left; only
that it was farther onward the same way we were
to go.
The night was coming on, and the night began
to be dusky, which made it the worse on our side;
but, the noise increasing, we could easily perceive
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish
creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves on our left, one behind us,
and one on our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them; however, as they did not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we
could make our horses go, which, the way being
very rough, was only a good large trot; and in this
manner we only came in view of the entrance of
the wood through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly sur-
prised, when, coming near the lane, or pass, we saw
a confused number of wolves standing just at the
entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood,
we heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle
on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seven-
teen wolves after him full speed: indeed the horse
11
had the heels of them; but as we supposed that he
could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but
they would get up with him at last; and no ques-
tion but they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we
found the carcase of another horse, and of two men
devoured by these ravenous creatures, and of one
the man was no doubt the same whom we heard
fire a gun, for there lay a gunjust by him fired off;
but as to the man, his head, and the upper part of
his body, were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them. It happened very much to our advan-
tage, that at the entrance into the wood, but a lit-
tle way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and
I suppose lay there for carriage: I drew my little
troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves
in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all
to alight, and, keeping that tree before us for a
breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never
was a more furious charge than the creatures made
WOL. II. N
upon us in this place; they came on us with a
growling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece
of timber (which, as I said, was our breastwork),
as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and
this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occa-
sioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which
was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to
fire as before, every man; and they took their aim
so sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves
at the first volley; but there was a necessity to
keep a continual firing, for they came on like de-
vils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired our second volley of fusils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone off; but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again; so we fired our vollies
of pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so
I called my servant, not my man Friday, for he
was better employed; for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he charged my fusil and his own
while we were engaged; but, as Isaid, I called my
other man; and giving him a horn of powder, I
bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber,
and let it be a large train; he did so, and had but
time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
10
and some were got up upon it; when I, snapping
an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on
fire; and those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire: we dispatched these in an instant,
and the rest were so frighted with the light, which
the night, for now it was very near dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout:
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied im-
mediately upon near twenty lame ones, which we
found struggling on the ground, and fell a-cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expec-
tation; for the crying and howling they made were
better understood by their fellows; so that they
fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore
of them; and had it been daylight, we had killed
many more. The field of battle being thus clear-
ed, we made forward again; for we had still near
a league to go. We heard the ravenous crea-
tures howl and yell in the woods as we went, seve-
ral times; and sometimes we fancied we saw some
of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were
not certain; so in about an hour more we came to
the town, where we were to lodge, which we found
in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it seems,
that, the night before, the wolves and some bears
had broken into that village, and put them in a ter-
rible fright; and they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in the night, to pre-
serve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther; so we were
obliged to take a new guide there, and go to Tho-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or any
thing like them; but when we told our story at
Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground;
but they inquired much what kind of a guide we
had gotten, that would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season; and told us, it was very
much we were not all devoured. When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told
us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroy-
ed; for it was the sight of the horses that made
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that
at other times they are really afraid of a gun; but
they being excessive hungry, and raging on that
account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger; and that if we had
not by the continued fire, and at last by the strata-
gem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on
horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not
have taken the horses so much for their own, when
men were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal
they told us, that at last, if we had stood all to-
gether, and left our horses, they would have been
so eager to have devoured them, that we might
have come off safe, especially having our fire-arms
in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger
in my life; for seeing above three hundred devils
come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and
having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave
myself over for lost; and as it was, I believe, I
shall never care to cross those mountains again;
I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues
by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm
once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in
my passage through France; nothing but what
other travellers have given an account of, with
much more advantage than I can. I travelled from
Tholouse to Paris, and without any considerable
stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover,
the fourteenth of January, after having had a se-
vere cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate
safe about me; the bills of exchange, which I
brought with me, having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my
good ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the
money I had sent her, thought no pains too much,
or care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with every thing, that I was per-
fectly easy as to the security of my effects; and
indeed I was very happy from my beginning, and
now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this
good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects
with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and
so to the Brazils. But now another scruple came
in the way, and that was religion; for as I had
entertained some doubts about the Roman religion,
even while I was abroad, especially in my state of
solitude; so I knew there was no going to the
Brazils for me, much less going to settle there,
unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic
religion, without any reserve; except, on the other
hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles,
be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition:
so I resolved to stay at home, and, if I could find
means for it, to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who in return gave me notice, that he
could easily dispose of it there: but that if I
thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully
understand the value of it, who lived just upon the
spot, and who I knew to be very rich, so that he
believed they would be fond of buying it; he did
not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces of
eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it
to them, and he did so; and in about eight months
more, the ship being then returned, he sent me an
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent
of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to
my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange
for 33,800 pieces of eight for the estate; reserving
the payment of 100 moidores a year to him (the
old man) during his life, and 50 moidores after-
wards to his son for his life, which I had promised
them; and which the plantation was to make good
as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first
part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of
Providence's chequer-work, and of a variety which
the world will seldom be able to shew the like of:
beginning foolishly, but closing much more hap-
pily than any part of it ever gave me leave so
much as to hope for. **
Any one would think, that in this state of com-
plicated good fortune, I was past running any more
hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other circum-
stances had concurred : but I was inured to a
wandering life, had no family, nor many relations;
nor, however rich, had I contracted much ac-
quaintance; and though I had sold my estate in
the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the
wing again; especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island, and to know
if the poor Spaniards were in being there; and
how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that al-
most for seven years she prevented my running
abroad; during which time I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my care:
the eldest having something of his own, I bred
up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of
some addition to his estate, after my decease; the
other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterpri-
sing young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and
sent him to sea: and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures
myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for, first of all, I married, and that not either to my
disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and had three chil-
dren, two sons and one daughter.
CHAP. IX.
Reflections—Unsettled state of mind, and conversa-
tion with my Wife thereon—Purchase a Farm in
the County of Bedford–Lose my Wife—I deter-
mine to revisit my Island, and for that purpose
settle all my affairs in England—Description of
the Cargo I carried out with me—Save the Crew
of a Vessel burnt at sea.
That homely proverb used on so many occasions
in England, viz. “That what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh,” was never more veri-
fied than in the story of my Life. Any one would
think, that after thirty-five years affliction, and a
variety of unhappy circumstances, which few men,
if any, ever went through before, and after near
seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness
of all things; grown old, and when, if ever, it might
be allowed me to have had experience of every state
of middle life, and to know which was most adapted
to make a man completely happy; I say, after all
this, any one would have thought that the native
propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of
in my first setting out into the world to have been
so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out,
the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con-
densed, and I might at sixty-one years of age have
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have
done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay farther, the common motive of foreign ad-
ventures was taken away in me; for I had no for-
tune to make, I had nothing to seek: if I had
gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer;
for I had already sufficient for me, and for those I
had to leave it to, and that I had was visibly in-
creasing; for having no great family, I could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set
up for an expensive way of living, such as a great
family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like,
which were things I had no notion of, or inclina-
tion to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to
sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it
increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or
at least not enough to resist the strong inclination
I had to go abroad again, which hung about me
like a chronical distemper; particularly the desire
of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the
colony I left there, run in my head continually. I
dreamed of it all night, and my imagination run
upon it all day; it was uppermost in all mythoughts,
and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon
it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing
could remove it out of my mind; it even broke so
violently into all my discourses, that it made my
conversation tiresome; for I could talk of nothing
else, all my discourse run into it, even to imperti-
nence, and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment
say, that all the stir people make in the world
about ghosts and apparitions, is owing to the
strength of imagination, and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing
as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking, and the
like; that people's poring affectionately upon the
past conversation of their deceased friends so rea-
lizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying,
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they
see them, talk to them, and are answered by them,
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and va-
pour in the thing; and they really know nothing
of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spec-
tres, or walking of people after they are dead, or
whether there is any thing in the stories they tell
us of that kind, more than the product of vapours,
sick minds, and wandering fancies. But this I
know, that my imagination worked up to such a
height, and brought me into such excess of va-
pours, or what else I may call it, that I actually
supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my
old castle behind the trees, saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors whom I
left upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with
them, and looked at them so steadily, though I was
broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this
I did till I often frightened myself with the images
my fancy represented to me: one time in my sleep
I had the villainy of the three pirate sailors so
lively related to me, by the first Spaniard and Fri-
day's father, that it was surprising; they told me
how they barbarously attempted to murder all the
Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions
they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve
them; things that I had never heard of, and that
were yet all of them true in fact; but it was so
warm in my imagination, and so realized to me,
that to the hour I saw them, I could not be per-
suaded but that it was or would be true; also how
I resented it when the Spaniard complained to me,
and how I brought them to justice, tried them be-
fore me, and ordered them all three to be hanged.
What there was really in this, shall be seen in its
place; for however I came to form such things in
my dream, and what secret converse of spirits in-
jected it, yet there was, Isay, very much of it true.
I own, that this dream had nothing literally and
specifically true; but the general part was so true,
the base and villainous behaviour of these three har-
dened rogues was such, aud had been so much worse
than all I can describe, that the dream had toe
much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
wards have punished them severely, so if I had
hanged them all, I had been much in the right,
and should have been justifiable both by the laws
of God and man.
But to return to my story—In this kind of tem-
per I had lived some years, I had no enjoyment of
my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion
but what had something or other of this in it; so
that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent
upon it, told me very seriously one night, that she
believed there was some secret powerful impulse of
Providence upon me, which had determined me to
go thither again; and that she found nothing hin-
dered my going, but my being engaged to a wife
and children. She told me, that it was true she
could not think of parting with me; but as she was
assured, that if she was dead it would be the first
thing I would do; so, as it seemed to her that the
thing was determined above, she would not be the
only obstruction; for if I thought fit, and resolved
to go Here she found me very intent upon her
words, and that I looked very earnestly at her; so
that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I
asked her why she did not go on, and say out what
she was going to say? But I perceived her heart
was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes:
“Speak out, my dear,” said I; “are you willing
I should go?” “No,” says she, very affection-
ately, “I am far from willing: but if you are re-
solved to go,” says she, “ and rather than I will be
the only hinderance, I will go with you; for though
I think it a preposterous thing for one of your years,
and in your condition, yet if it must be,” said she,
again weeping, “I won't leave you; for if it be of
Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, he will
also make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dis-
pose of me, that I may not obstruct it.”
This affectionate behaviour of my wife brought
me a little out of the vapours, and I began to con-
sider what I was doing; I corrected my wandering
fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately,
what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters,
and closed in so happy aud easy a manner, I say,
what business had I to rush into new hazards, and
put myself upon adventures, fit only for youth and
poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new en-
gagement; that I had a wife, one child born, and
my wife then great with child of another; that I
had all the world could give me, and had no need
to seek hazards for gain; that I was declining in
years, and ought to think rather of leaving what I
had gained, than of seeking to increase it; that as
to what my wife had said, of its being an impulse
from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go,
I had no notion of that; so after many of these co-
gitations, I struggled with the power of my imagi-
nation, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people
may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in a
word, I conquered it; composed myself with such
arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and which
my present condition furnished me plentifully with;
and particularly, as the most éffectual method, I
resolved to divert myself with other things, and to
engage in some business that might effectually tie
me up from any more excursions of this kind; for
I found the thing return upon me chiefly when I
was idle, had nothing to do, or any thing of mo-
ment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the
county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself
thither. I had a little convenient house upon it,
and the land about it I found was capable of great
improvement, and that it was many ways suited to
my inclination, which delighted in cultivating,
7
managing, planting, and improving of land; and
particularly, being an inland country, I was remo-
ved from conversing among ships, sailors, and
things relating to the remote part of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my
family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, wag-
gon, horses, cows, sheep; and setting seriously to
work, became in one half year a mere country
gentleman; my thoughts were entirely taken up in
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, en-
closing, planting, &c.; and I lived, as I thought,
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of
directing, or that a man always bred to misfor-
tunes was capable of being retreated to.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to
pay, was limited by no articles; I could pull up or
cut down as I pleased; what I planted was for my-
self, and what I improved was for my family; and
having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I
had not the least discomfort in any part of my
life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that
I enjoyed the middle state of life which my father
so earnestly recommended to me, a kind of hea-
venly life, something like what is described by the
poet upon the subject of a country life:
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
WOL. II. O
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow
from unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once;
and not only made a breach upon me, inevitable
and incurable, but drove me, by its consequence,
upon a deep relapse into the wandering disposi-
tion; which, as I may say, being born in my very
blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like the
returns of a violent distemper, came on with an ir-
resistible force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow
was the loss of my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon
my wife, to give a character of her particular vir-
tues, and make my court to the sex by the flattery
of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the
stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enter-
prises, the engine that by her prudence reduced
me to that happy compass I was in, from the most
extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in
my head as above; and did more to guide my ram-
bling genius, than a mother's tears, a father's in-
structions, a friend's counsel, or all my own reason-
ing powers could do. I was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties,
and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in
the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone the world looked awkward-
ly round me, I was as much a stranger in it in my
1 :
thoughts as I was in the Brazils when I went first
on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island.
I knew neither what to do, or what not to do; I
saw the world busy round me, one part labouring
for bread, and the other part squandering in vile
excesses or empty pleasures equally miserable, be-
cause the end they proposed still fled from them;
for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of their
vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance,
and the men of labour spent their strength in daily
strugglings for bread to maintain the vital strength
they laboured with; so living in a daily circulation
of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to
live, as if daily bread were the only end of a weari-
some life, and a wearisome life the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my
kingdom the island, where I suffered no more corn
to grow, because I did not want it; and bred no
more goats, because I had no more use for them;
where the money lay in the drawer till it grew
mildewed, and had scarce the favour to be looked
upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought
to have done, and as reason and religion had dic-
tated to me, would have taught me to search far-
ther than human enjoyments for a full felicity, and
that there was something which certainly was the
reason and end of life, superior to all these things,
and which was either to be possessed, or at least
hoped for, on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a
ship without a pilot, that could only run before the
wind; my thoughts run all away again into the old
affair, my head was quite turned with the whimsies
of foreign adventures; and all the pleasing inno-
cent amusements of my farm and my garden, my
cattle and my family, which before entirely pos-
sessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and
were like music to one that has no ear, or food to
one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to leave
off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to Lon-
don; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London I was still as uneasy as
before; I had no relish to the place, no employ-
ment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about like
an idle person, of whom it may be said, he is per-
fectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one
farthing matter to the rest of his kind whether he
be dead or alive. This also was the thing which
of all circumstances of life was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active
life; and I would often say to myself, “A state of
idleness is the very dregs of life;” and indeed I
thought I was much more suitably employed when
I was twenty-six days making me a deal board.
It was now the begining of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I
had brought up to the sea, and had made him
commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made; he
came to me, and told me, that some merchants of
his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go
a voyage for them to the East Indies and to China,
as private traders; “And now, uncle,” says he, “if
you will go to sea with me, I’ll engage to land you
upon your old habitation in the island, for we are
to touch at the Brazils.”
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a fu.
ture state, and of the existence of an invisible
world, than the concurrence of second causes with
the ideas of things which we form in our minds,
perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any
in the world. -
My nephew knew nothing how far my distem-
per of wandering was returned upon me, and I
knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to
say, when that very morning, before he came to
me, I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought,
and revolving every part of my circumstances in
my mind, come to this resolution, viz. that I would
go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-captain;
and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would
go and see the island again, and see what was be-
come of my people there. I had pleased myself
also with the thoughts of peopling the place, and
carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what; when in
the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I
have said, with his project of carrying me thither,
in his way to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadi-
ly at him, “What devil,” said I “sent you of this
unlucky errand "My nephew startled, as if he
had been frighted at first; but perceiving I was not
much displeased with the proposal, he recovered
himself. “I hope it may not be an unlucky pro-
posal, Sir,” says he; “I dare say you would be
pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother monarchs in the world.”
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my
temper, that is to say, with the prepossession I was
under, and of which I have said so much, that I
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the
merchants, I would go with him: but I told him I
would not promise to go any farther than my own
island. “Why, Sir,” says he, “ you don't want to
be left there again, I hope *—“Why,” said I “can
you not take me up again in your return?” He told
me, it could not be possible that the merchants
would allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his
way, and might be three or four: “Besides, Sir, if
I should miscarry,” said he, “ and not return at all,
then you would be just reduced to the condition
you were in before.”
This was very rational; but we both found out
a remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop
on board the ship, which, being taken in pieces
and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with
us, be set up again in the island, and finished, fit
to go to sea in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the impor-
tunities of my nephew joined in so effectually with
my inclination, that nothing could oppose me: on
the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerned themselves so much for me, as to per-
suade me one way or other, except my ancient good
friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me
to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and
the needless hazard of a long voyage; and, above
all, my young children: but it was all to no pur-
pose; I had an irresistible desire to the voyage;
and I told her I thought there was something so
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting
Providence, if I should attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and join-
ed with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my
absence, and providing for the education of my
children.
In order to this I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy and
satisfied they would have justice done them, what-
ever might befall me; and for their education, I
left it wholly to my widow, with a sufficient main-
tenance to herself for her care; all which she rich-
ly deserved; for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and
as she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank
her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the begin-
ning of January 1694 5, and I with my man Fri-
day went on board in the Downs the 8th, having,
besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things
for my colony, which if I did not find in good con-
dition, I resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
purposed to place there as inhabitants, or at least
to set on work there upon my own account while I
stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry
them forward, as they should appear willing; par-
ticularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a
very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by
trade, but was also a general mechanic; for he was
dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind
corn, was a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he
also made any thing that was proper to make of
earth, or of wood; in a word. we called him our
Jack of all Trades.
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered
himself to go passenger to the East Indies with my
nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our
new plantation, and proved a most necessary handy
fellow as could be desired, in many other busi-
nesses besides that of his trade; for, as I observed
formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have
not kept an account of the particulars, consisted of
a sufficient quantity of linen, and some thin Eng-
lish stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I expected
to find there, and enough of them as, by my calcu-
lation, might comfortably supply them for seven
years: if I remember right, the materials which I
carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes,
stockings, and all such things as they could want
for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds,
including some beds, bedding, and household-stuff,
particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles,
pewter, brass, &c. besides near a hundred pounds
more in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples,
hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could
think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets,
and fuzees, besides some pistols, a considerable
quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and because
I knew not what time and what extremities I was
providing for, I carried an hundred barrels of pow-
der, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part
of some pikes and halberts; so that, in short, we
had a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and L
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck
guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave be-
hind if there was occasion; that when they came
there we might build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies: and indeed I at first thought
there would be need enough of it all, and much
more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of
the island, as shall be seen in the course of the
story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had
been used to meet with; and therefore shall have
the less occasion to interrupt the reader, who per-
haps may be impatient to hear how matters went
with my colony; yet some odd accidents, eross
winds, and bad weather, happened on this first set-
ting out, which made the voyage longer than I ex-
pected it at first; and I, who had never made but
one voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea, in which
I might be said to come back again as the voyage
was at first designed, began to think the same ill
fate still attended me; and that I was born to be
never contented with being on shore, and yet to
be always unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward,
and we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ire-
land, where we lay wind-bound two-and-thirty
days: but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we
never touched the ship's stores, but rather added
to them : here also I took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had
a good passage, to put on shore in my island; but
we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland,
and had a very fair gale of wind for some days;
as I remember, it might be about the 20th of
February in the evening late, when the mate ha-
ving the watch, came into the round-house, and told
us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in,
and told us the boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes
we saw a very great light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a distance. Imme-
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which
we all agreed that there could be no land that way
in which the fire shewed itself, no, not for five
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W. N. W.
Upon this we concluded it must be some ship on
fire at sea; and as by our hearing the noise of guns
just before, we concluded it could not be far off, we
stood directly towards it, and were presently satis-
fied we should discover it, because the farther we
sailed the greater the light appeared, though the
weather being hazy we could not perceive any
thing but the light for a while : in about half an
hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little,
we could plainly discern that it was a great ship
on fire in the middle of the sea,
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster,
though not at all acquainted with the persons en-
gaged in it; I presently recollected my former
circumstances, in what condition I was in when
taken up by the Portugal captain; and how much
more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had
no other ship in company with them : upon this I
immediately ordered that five guns should be fired,
one soon after another, that, if possible, we might
give notice to them that there was help for them
at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see
the flame in the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as
the burning ship drove, waiting for day-light;
when on a sudden, to our great terror, though we
had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air,
and immediately sunk. This was terrible, and in-
deed an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor
men, who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed
in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boats in the middle of the ocean, which, at pre-
sent, by reason it was dark, I could not see: how-
ever, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship
where we could, and which we had lanterns for,
and kept firing guns all the night long; letting
them know by this, that there was a ship not far
off. -
About eight o'clock in the morning we disco-
vered the ship's boats, by the help of our per-
spective-glasses; and found there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water; we perceived they rowed, the wind being
against them; that they saw our ship, and did the
utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them
know we saw them; and hung a waft out, as a sig-
nal for them to come on board; and then made
more sail, standing directly to them. In a little
more than half an hour we came up with them,
and in a word took them all in, being no less than
sixty-four men, women, and children; for there
were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French mer-
chant-ship of three hundred tons, homeward-bound
from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master
gave us a long account of the distress of his ship,
how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence
of the steersman; but, on his crying out for help,
was, as every body thought, entirely put out: but
they soon found that some sparks of the first fire
had gotten into some part of the ship, so difficult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench
it; and afterwards getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded
into the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the
application they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into
their boats, which, to their great comfort, were
pretty large; being their long-boat, and a great
shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no great
service to them, other than to get some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they had se-
cured themselves from the fire. They had indeed
small hope of their lives by getting into these
boats at that distance from any land; only, as they
said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and
had a possibility, that some ship might happen to
be at sea, and might take them in. They had
sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparing to
make the best of their way to Newfoundland, the
wind blowing pretty fair; for it blew an easy gale
at S. E. by E. They had as much provisions and
water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might support them about twelve days;
in which, if they had no bad weather, and no con-
trary winds, the captain said, he hoped he might
get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might per-
haps take some fish to sustain them till they might
go on shore. But there were so many chances
against them in all these cases; such as storms to
overset and founder them ; rains and cold to be-
numb and perish their limbs; contrary winds to
keep them out and starve them; that it must have
been next to miraculous if they had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one
being hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain,
with tears in his eyes, told me, they were on a sud-
den surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire,
and after that four more; these were the five guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light:
this revived their hearts, and gave them the notice
which, as above, I designed it should, viz. that
there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they
took down their masts and sails; and the sound
coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by
till morning. Some time after this, hearing no
more guns, they fired three muskets, one a consi-
derable while after another; but these, the wind
being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and
hearing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused
to be fired all the rest of the night: this set them
to work with their oars to keep their boats ahead,
at least that we might the sooner come up with
them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they
found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several
gestures, the strange ecstacies, the variety of pos-
tures, which these poor delivered people run into,
to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected
a deliverance; grief and fear are easily described;
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of head
and hands, make up the sum of its variety: but an
excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand ex-
travagances in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been
in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark ra-
ving and downright lunatic; some ran about the
ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, several singing,
some laughing, more crying: many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word; others sick and vomit-
ing, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves, and giving God
thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might
be many that were thankful afterward; but the
passion was too strong for them at first, and they
were not able to master it; they were thrown into
ecstacies and a kind of frenzy, and so there were but
a very few who were composed and serious in their
joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition
to it, from the particular circumstance of the nation
they belonged to; I mean the French, whose tem-
per is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate,
and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid,
than of other nations. I am not philosopher to de-
termine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen
before came up to it: the ecstasies poor Friday,
my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father
in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the sur-
prise of the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the two villains that set them on
WOL. II. P
shore in the island, came a little way towards it;
but nothing was to compare to this, either that I
saw in Friday, or any where else in my life.
It is farther observable, that these extravagan-
ces did not shew themselves in that different man-
ner I have mentioned, in different persons only:
but all the variety would appear in a short succes-
sion of moments, in one and the same person. A
man that we saw this minute dumb, and as it were
stupid and confounded, should the next minute be
dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next
moment a-tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to
pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a
madman; a few minutes after that, we should have
him all in tears, then sick, then swooning; and had
not immediate help been had, would in a few mo-
ments more have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the
greatest part of them; and, if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to let above thirty of them
blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man, and the other a young man; and that which
was strangest was, that the oldest man was the
WOrSt.
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship,
and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone dead,
to all appearance; not the least sign of life could
be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately ap-
plied proper remedies to recover him; and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not
dead: and at length he opened a vein in his arm,
having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to
warm it as much as possible: upon this the blood,
which only dropped at first, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his
eyes; and about a quarter of an hour after that he
spoke, grew better, and, in a little time, quite well;
after the blood was stopped, he walked about, told
us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial
which the surgeon gave him, and was, what we
called, come to himself; about a quarter of an
hour after this they came running into the cabin
to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French woman
that had fainted, and told him the priest was gone
stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the
change of his circumstances in his mind, and this
put him into an ecstacy of joy: his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and feverish; and the man was
as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in
it; the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated
upon him, and he waked next morning perfectly
composed and well. -
The younger priest behaved himself with great
command of his passion, and was really an ex-
ample of a serious, well-governed mind; at his first
coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on
his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his
deliverance; in which I unhappily and unseason-
ably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in
a swoon: but he spoke calmly; thanked me; told
me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance;
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that
next to his Maker he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and
not only left him, but kept others from interrupt-
ing him also; he continued in that posture about
three minutes, or a little more, after I left him,
then came to me, as he had said he would, and
with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but
with tears in his eyes, thanked me that had, under
God, given him and so many miserable creatures
their lives: I told him, I had no room to move him
to thank God for it rather than me; for I had seen
that he had done that already : but I added, that
it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason
as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so
far as to make us the instruments of his mercy to
many of his creatures.
After this the young priest applied himself to
his country-folks; laboured to compose them; per-
suaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of
their reason; and with some he had success, though
others were, for a time, out of all government of
themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as per-
haps it may be useful to those into whose hands it
may fall, in the guiding themselves in all the ex-
travagances of their passions; for if an excess of
joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the
reach of their reason, what will not the extrava-
gances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry
us to ? And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping
an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind,
as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sor-
row and anger.
We were something disordered by these extrava-
gances among our new guests for the first day; but
when they had been retired, lodgings provided for
them as well as our ship would allow, and they
had slept heartily, as most of them did, being fa-
tigued and frightened, they were quite another sort
of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledge-
ments for the kindness shewn them, was wanting;
the French, it is known, are naturally apt enough
to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day; and, desiring to
speak with me and my nephew, the commander
began to consult with us what should be done with
them; and first they told us, that as we had saved
their lives, so all they had was little enough for a
return to us for the kindness received. The cap-
tain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out
of the flames: and if we would accept it, they were
ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only
desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way,
where, if possible, they might get a passage to
France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at
first word, and to consider what to do with them af-
terwards; but I over-ruled him in that part; for I
knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange
country; and if the Portugal captain that took me
up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for
my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been
as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at
Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan only ex-
cepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, a
much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had
taken them up in their distress, it was true; but
that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-
creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered,
if we were in the like or any other extremity; that
we had done nothing for them but what we belie-
ved they would have done for us if we had been in
their case and they in ours; but that we took them
up to serve them, not to plunder them; and that it
would be a most barbarous thing, to take that little
from them which they had saved out of the fire,
and then set them on shore and leave them; that
this would be first to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning,
and then abandon them to starving; and therefore
I would not let the least thing be taken from them:
as to setting them on shore, I told them indeed that
was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship
was bound to the East Indies; and though we were
driven out of our course to the westward a very
great way, which perhaps was directed by Heaven
on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impos.
sible for us wilfully to change our voyage on th’s
particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he
was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 231
them was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting
with other ships homeward-bound from the West
Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to Eng-
land or France, . .
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it;
but they were in a great consternation, especially
the passengers, at the notion of being carried away
to the East Indies: they then entreated me, that
seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I
met with them, I would at least keep on the same
course to the banks of Newfoundland, where it was
possible I might meet with some ship or sloop that
they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from
whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on
their part, and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for
indeed I considered, that to carry this whole com-
pany to the East Indies would not only be an into-
lerable severity to the poor people, but would be
ruining our whole voyage by devouring all our pro-
visions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party,
but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely
necessary to us; and in which no one could say we
were to blame; for the laws of God and nature
would have forbid, that we should refuse to take
up two boats full of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing, as well re-
specting ourselves, as the poor people, obliged us
to see them on shore somewhere or other, for their
deliverance; so I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would
permit; and, if not, that I would carry them to
Martinico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the wea-
ther pretty good; and as it had blowed continu-
ally in the points between N. E. and S. E. a long
time, we missed several opportunities of sending
them to France; for we met several ships bound
to Europe, whereof two were French, from St Chris-
topher's; but they had been so long beating up
against the wind, that they durst take in no pas-
sengers for fear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It
was about a week after this, that we made the
banks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my
story, we put all our French people on board a
bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them on
shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if
they could get provisions to victual themselves
with: when, I say, all the French went on shore,
I should remember that the young priest I spoke
of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, de-
sired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on
shore on the coast of Coromandel: I readily agreed
to that; for I wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also
four of the seamen entered themselves in our ship,
and proved very useful fellows.
CHAP. X.
Steer for the West Indies—Distressing account of a
Bristol Ship, the Crew of which we save in a state
of starvation—Arrive at my Island—Friday's joy
on discovering it—Affecting interview berwirt him
and his Father on landing—Narrative of the oc-
currences on the Island during my absence.
From hence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about
twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind
at all, when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as
that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N.
and the 19th day of March 1684-5, when we
espied a sail, our course S.E. and by S. We soon
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore
up to us; but could not at first know what to make
of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bow-
sprit; and presently she fires a gun as a signal of
distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at N.
N.W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak
with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol bound home
from Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the
road at Barbadoes, a few days before she was
ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the
captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
so that, beside the terror of the storm, they were
but in an indifferent case for good artists to bring
the ship home; they had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met with another terrible storm
after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and in which they had lost their masts, as above;
they told us, they expected to have seen the Baha-
ma Islands, but were then driven away again to
the south-east by a strong gale of wind at N. N.
W. the same that blew now, and having no sails to
work the ship with, but a main-course, and a kind
of square sail upon a jury-foremast, which they had
set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were
endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they
were almost starved for want of provisions, besides
the fatigues they had undergone; their bread and
flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left
in the ship, and had had none for eleven days; the
only relief they had, was, their water was not all
spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour
left; they had sugar enough; some succades or
sweetmeats they had at first, but they were devour-
ed; and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-
servant, on board, who were going passengers, and
thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily
came on board the evening before the hurricane
began; and, having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the
rest; for the seamen, being reduced to such an ex-
treme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we
may be sure, for the poor passengers; and they
were indeed in a condition that their misery is very
hard to describe. *
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curi-
osity had not led me, the weather being fair, and
the wind abated, to go on board the ship: the se-
cond mate, who upon this occasion commanded the
ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me
indeed, that they had three passengers in the great
cabin, that they were in a deplorable condition;
“Nay,” says he, “I believe they are dead, for I
have heard nothing of them for above two days;
and I was afraid to inquire after them,” said he,
“ for I had nothing to relieve them with.”
We immediately applied ourselves to give them
what relief we could spare; and indeed I had so
far over-ruled things with my nephew, that I would
have victualled them, though we had gone away to
Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to
have supplied ourselves; but there was no neces-
sity for that.
But now they were in a new danger, for they
were afraid of eating too much, even of that little
we gave them. The mate or commander brought
six men with him in his boat, but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak,
they could hardly sit to their oars; the mate him-
self was very ill, and half starved, for he declared
he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they
ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat
before him immediately, and he had not eaten three
mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of
order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mix-
ed him up something with some-broth, which he
said would be to him both food and physic; and
after he had taken it, he grew better: in the mean
time I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them, and the poor creatures rather devour-
ed than ate it; they were so exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no
command of themselves; and two of them ate with
so much greediness, that they were in danger of
their lives the next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very mo-
ving to me, and brought to mind what I had a ter-
rible prospect of at my first coming on shore in my
island, where I had not the least mouthful of food,
or any hopes of procuring it; besides the hourly
apprehension I had of being made the food of
other creatures. But all the while the mate was
thus relating to me the miserable condition of the
ship's company, I could not put out of my thought
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures
in the great cabin; viz. the mother, her son, and
the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of
for two or three days; and whom he seemed to
confess they had wholly neglected, their own ex-
tremities being so great; by which I understood,
that they had really given them no food at all; and
that therefore they must be perished, and be all
lying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the
cabin. -
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then
called captain, on board with his men to refresh
them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go
on board the ship, and with my mate and twelve
men to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five
pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the
men to cause the meat to be boiled while they
stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to
prevent the men's taking it to eat raw, or taking it
out of the pot before it was well boiled, and then
to give every man but a little at a time; and by
this caution he preserved the men, who would
otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their
lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into
the great cabin, and see what condition the poor
passengers were in, and, if they were alive, to com-
fort them and give them what refreshment was
proper; and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher
with some of the prepared broth which he had gi-
ven the mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery,
which I knew the ship itself would present me
with, in a more lively manner than I could have it
by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we
now called him, with me, and went myself a little
after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tu-
mult to get the victuals out of the boiler before
it was ready; but my mate observed his order, and
kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible per-
suasion to have patience, kept them off by force :
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped
in the pot, and softened them with the liquor of
the meat, which they call brewis, and gave every
one one, to stay their stomachs, and told them it
was for their own safety that he was obliged to give
them but little at a time. But it was all in vain,
and had I not come on board, and their own com-
mander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats also of giving them no more, I
believe they would have broke into the cook-room
by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however, we pacified them, and fed them
gradually and cautiously for the first time, and the
next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the ca-
bin was of another nature, and far beyond the rest;
for as, first, the ship's company had so little for
themselves, it was but too true, that they had at
first kept them very low, and at last totally ne-
glected them ; so that for six or seven days it
T -
might be said, they had really had no food at all,
and for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate re-
ported, was a woman of good sense and good breed-
ing, had spared all she could get so affectionately
for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat
upon the floor or deck, with her back up against
the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed
fast, and her head sunk in between her shoulders,
like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth; she
opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could
not speak: yet she understood what he said, and
made signs to him, intimating, that it was too late
for her; but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said, they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth; and, as he said, got two or
three spoonfuls down, though I question whether
he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late, and
she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of
his most affectionate mother's life, was not so far
gone; yet he lay in a cabin-bed as one stretched
out, with hardly any life left in him; he had a
WOL. II. Q
piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten
up the rest of it; however, being young, and ha-
ving more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly
to revive, though, by giving him some time after
but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was
very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay
all along upon the deck hard by her mistress, and
just like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy,
and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one
of her hands was clasped round the frame of
one chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could
not easily make her let it go; her other arm lay
over her head, and her feet lay both together, set
fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in short,
she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with
hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of death,
but, as the men told us afterwards, was broken-
hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two
or three days before, and whom she loved most
tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for
when our surgeon, who was a man of very great
knowledge and experience, and with great applica-
tion recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
3
hand as to her senses; for she was little less than
distracted for a considerable time after, as shall
appear presently. -
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must
be desired to consider, that visits at sea are not like
a journey into the country, where sometimes peo-
ple stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our busi-
mess was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but
not lie by for them; and though they were willing
to steer the same course with us for some days, yet
we could carry no sail to keep pace with a ship
that had no masts: however, as their captain beg-
ged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast,
and a kind of topmast to his jury-foremast, we did,
as it were, lie by him for three or four days, and
then having given him five barrels of beef and
pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of
pease, flour, and what other things we could spare;
and taking three casks of sugar and some rum, and
some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we
left them, taking on board with us, at their own
earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all
their goods. e
The young lad was about seventeen years of age,
a pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth;
greatly dejected with the loss of his mother, and,
as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon
to speak to me, to take him out of the ship; for
he said, the cruel fellows had murdered his mother;
and indeed so they had, that is to say, passively;
for they might have spared a small sustenance to
the poor helpless widow, that might have preserved
her life, though it had been just to keep her alive.
But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going,
and how it would carry him away from all his
friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circumstan-
ces, almost, as we found them in; that is to say,
starving in the world. He said he mattered not
whither he went, if he was but delivered from the
terrible crew that he was among: that the captain
(by which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure
would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he was
sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thank-
ful for it, let us carry them whither we would. The
surgeon represented the case so affectionately to
me, that I yielded, and we took them both on board
with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of su-
gar, which could not be removed, or come at; and
as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made
his commander sign a writing, obliging him to go,
as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr Rogers, a
1.
merchant there, to whom the youth said he was re-
lated, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the decea-
sed widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that
I am of opinion, the first storm she met with after-
wards she might founder in the sea; for she was
leaky, and had damage in her hold when I met
with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and
had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather,
though at first the winds had been contrary. I shall
trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind,
weather, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage;
but, shortening my story for the sake of what is to
follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habi-
tation, the island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It
was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as I came to it, and went from it before, on the
south and east side of the island, as coming from
the Brazils; so now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any land-mark, I did not know it when I saw
it, or know whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore
on several islands in the mouth of the great river
Oroonoque, but none for my purpose: only this I
learnt by my coasting the shore, that I was under
one great mistake before, viz. that the continent
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in,
was really no continent, but a long island, or rather
a ridge of islands reaching from one to the other
side of the extended mouth of that great river;
and that the savages who came to my island, were
not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind,
who inhabited something nearer to our side than
he rest.
In short, I visited several of the islands to no pur-
pose; some I found were inhabited, and some were
not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and
thought they had lived there; but speaking with
them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek
hard by, and that they came thither to make salt,
and catch some pearl-mussels, if they could; but
they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
farther north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, some-
times with the ship, sometimes with the French-
man's shallop (which we had found a convenient
boat, and therefore kept her with their very good
will,) at length I came fair on the south side of my
island, and I presently knew the very countenance
of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor
broadside with the little creek where was my old
habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday,
and asked him, if he knew where he was? He look-
ed about a little, and presently clapping his hands,
cried, “O yes, Othere, O yes, Othere!” pointing
to our old habitation, and fell a dancing and caper-
ing like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to
the place.
“Well, Friday,” said I, “ do you think we shall
find any body here, or no? and what do you think,
shall we see your father?” The fellow stood mute
as a stock a good while; but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejec-
ted; and I could see the tears run down his face
very plentifully. “What is the matter, Friday :"
said I; “ are you troubled because you may see
your father ”—“No, no,” says he, shaking his
head, “no see him more, no ever more see again.”
—“Why so,” said I, “Friday 2 how do you know
that?”—“O no, O no,” says Friday, “he long ago
die; long ago, he much old man.”—“Well, well,”
said I, “Friday, you don't know: but shall we see
any one else then "The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above
my old house; and though we lay half a league
off, he cries out, “ Me see! me see! yes, yes, me
*
see much man there, and there, and there.” I
looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a per-
spective-glass; which was, I suppose, because I
could not hit the place; for the fellow was right,
as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there
were five or six men all together stood to look at
the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and fired
three guns, to give them notice we were friends;
and about half a quarter of an hour after, we per-
ceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek; so
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday
with me; and hanging out a white flag, or a flag
of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me
the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told
the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular both of myself and those
that I left there, and who was on that account ex-
tremely desirous to go with me. We had besides
about sixteen men very well armed, if we had found
any new guest there which we did not know of;
but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek; and
the first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard
whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his
face perfectly well; as to his habit, I shall describe
it afterwards. I ordered no body to go on shore at
first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday
in the boat; for the affectionate creature had spied
his father at a distance, a good way off of the
Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and
if they had not let him go on shore he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he flew away to his father like an arrow out of
a bow. It would have made any man shed tears
in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this poor fellow's joy, when he
came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set
him down upon a tree, and lay down by him; then
stood and looked at him as any one would look at
a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together;
then lay down upon the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again,
and stared at him; one would have thought the
fellow bewitched : but it would have made a dog
laugh to see how the next day his passion run out
another way: in the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father, several hours,
always leading him by the hand as if he had been
a lady; and every now and then would come to
fetch something or other for him from the boat,
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, or
something or other that was good. In the afternoon
his frolics ran another way; for then he would set
the old man down upon the ground, and dance
about him, and made a thousand antic postures and
gestures; and all the while he did this he would be
talking to him, and telling him one story or another
of his travels, and of what had happened to him
abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial
affection was to be found in Christians to their pa-
rents in our parts of the world, one would be tempt-
ed to say there hardly would have been any need
of the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression; I return to my landing.
It would be endless to take notice of all the cere-
monies and civilities that the Spaniards received me
with. The first Spaniard whom, as I said, I knew
very well, was he whose life I saved: he came to-
wards the boat attended by one more, carrying a
flag of truce also; and he did not only not know
me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of
its being me that was come till I spoke to him.
“Seignior,” said I, in Portuguese, “do you not
know me?” at which he spoke not a word; but
giving his musket to the man that was with him,
threw his arms abroad, and saying something in
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came for-
ward, and embraced me, telling me, he was inex-
cusable not to know that face again that he had
once seen, as of an angel from Heaven sent to
save his life: he said abundance of very handsome
things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how;
and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He
then asked me if I would walk to my old habita-
tion, where he would give me possession of my
own house again, and where I should see there had
been but mean improvements; so I walked along
with him; but, alas! I could no more find the
place again than if I had never been there; for they
had planted so many trees, and placed them in
such a posture, so thick and close to one another,
in ten years time they were grown so big, that, in
short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings and blind ways as they themselves only
who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these for-
tifications? He told me, I would say there was
need enough of it, when they had given an account
how they had passed their time since their arriving
in the island, especially after they had the misfor-
tune to find that I was gone: he told me he could
... not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune,
when he heard that I was gone in a good ship,
and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes
a strong persuasion, that one time or other he should
see me again: but nothing that ever befel him in
his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to
him at first, as the disappointment he was under
when he came back to the island, and found I was
not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them)
that were left behind, and of whom he said he had
a long story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the savages, only
that their number was so small. “And,” says he,
“ had they been strong enough, we had been all
long ago in purgatory;” and with that he crossed
himself upon the breast. “But, Sir,” says he, “I
hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell
you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them, and making
them our subjects, who would not be content with
being moderately our masters, but would be our
murderers.” I answered, I was heartily afraid of
it when I left them there; and nothing troubled
me at my parting from the island, but that they
were not come back, that I might have put them in
possession of every thing first, and left the other in
a state of subjection, as they deserved: but if they
had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and
should be very far from finding any fault with it;
for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungo-
vernable villains, and were fit for any manner of
mischief.
While I was saying this came the man whom
he had sent back, and with him eleven men more :
in the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess
what nation they were of; but he made all clear
both to them and to me. First he turned to me,
and pointing to them, said, “These, Sir, are some
of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you;” and
then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who I was; upon which they all came
up one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and
ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if
they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a
monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour
was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and
yet mixed with a manly majestic gravity, which
very well became them: and in short they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew
how to receive their civilities, much less how to
return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in
the island after my going away, is so remarkable,
and has so many incidents, which the former part
of my relation will help to understand, and which
will, in most of the particulars, refer to that account
I have already given, that I cannot but commit
them with great delight to the reading of those
that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation
in the first person, which will put me to the ex-
pense of ten thousand Said I's, and Said he's, and
He told me’s, and I told him's, and the like; but
I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can
gather them out of my memory from what they
related to me, and from what I met with in my
conversing with them, and with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly
as I can, I must go back to the circumstance in
which I left the island, and which the persons
were in of whom I am to speak. At first it is ne-
cessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had
rescued from the savages; I say, I had sent them
away in a large canoe to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions
whom he had left behind him, in order to save
them from the like calamity that he had been in,
and in order to succour them for the present, and
that if possible, we might together find some way
for our deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appear-
ance of, or the least room to hope for, my own de-
liverance, any more than I had twenty years be-
fore; much less had I any foreknowledge of what
after happened, I mean of an English ship coming
on shore there to fetch them off; and it could not
but be a very great surprise to them when they
came back, not only to find that I was guile, but
to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed
of all that I had left behind me, which would other-
wise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into,
that I might begin where I left off, was of their
own part; and I desired he would give me a par-
ticular account of his voyage back to his country-
men with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them
over. He told me there was little variety in that
part; for nothing remarkable happened to them
on the way, they having very calm weather and a
smooth sea; for his countrymen it could not be
doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to
see him (it seems he was the principal man among
them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time:) they
were, he said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was fallen into the hands
of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour
him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners;
that when he told them the story of the delive
ance, and in what manner he was furnished
carrying them away, it was like a dream to the
and their astonishment, they said, was somethin
like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them
who he was, and told them the story of his exalta-
tion in Pharaoh's court; but when he shewed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the pro-
visions that he brought them for their journey or
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and im-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
The first business was to get canoes; and in
this they were obliged not to stick so much upon
the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their
friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes
or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing,
or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning; it
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready,
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provi-
sions, or any other thing in the world, but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which
they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offer-
ed for my escape, as I mentioned in my other
part, and to get off from the island; leaving three
of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, dis-
agreeable villains behind me that any man could
desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards' great
grief and disappointment you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that
when the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my
letter to them, and gave them provisions and other
relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they
gave them the long paper of directions, which I
had left with them, containing the particular me-
thods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred
up my tame goats, and planted my corn; how I
cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
every thing I did; all this being written down,
they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom under-
stood English well enough; nor did they refuse
to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing else,
for they agreed very well for some time: they gave
them an equal admission into the house, or cave,
and they began to live very sociably; and the head
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my me-
thod, and Friday's father together, managed all
their affairs; for as for the Englishmen, they did
nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots,
and catch tortoises, and when they came home at
night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for
them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with
this, would the other but have left them alone;
which, however, they could not find in their hearts
to do long; but, like the dog in the manger, they
would not eat themselves, and would not let others
eat neither: the differences, nevertheless, were at
first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating;
WOL. ii. R
but at last it broke out into open war, and it began
with all the rudeness and insolence that can be
imagined, without reason, without provocation,
contrary to nature, and indeed to common sense;
and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the
accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part,
I must supply a defect in my former relation; and
this was, that I forgot to set down among the rest,
that just as we were weighing the anchor to set
sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our
ship, which I was afraid once would turn to a se-
cond mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain,
rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his as-
sistance, parted them by force, and making two of
the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them
in irons; and as they had been active in the for-
mer disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous
words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there
for mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend
to do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and
some of them had put it in the heads of the rest,
that the captain only gave them good words for
the present till they should come to some English
5
port, and that then they should be all put into a
gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted
us with it; upon which it was desired that I, who
still passed for a great man among them, should go
down with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell
them, that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for
the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and
after passing my honour's word to them, they ap-
peared easy, and the more so, when I caused the
two men who were in irons to be released and for-
given.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for
that night, the wind also falling calm. Next morn-
ing we found that our two men, who had been laid
in irons, had stole each of them a musket and some
other weapons; what powder or shot they had we
knew not; and had taken the ship's pinnace, which
was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to
their companions in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-
boat on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and
away they went to seek the rogues; but they could
neither find them, nor any of the rest; for they
all fled into the woods when they saw the boat
coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in
justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burnt all their household stuff and fur-
niture, and left them to shift without it; but having
no order, he let all alone, left every thing as they
found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on
board without them.
These two men made their number five : but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than
these, that after they had been two or three days
together, they turned their two new-comers out of
doors to shift for themselves, and would have no-
thing to do with them; nor could they, for a good
while, be persuaded to give them any food : as for
the Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the bu-
siness began to go forward; the Spaniards would
have persuaded the three English brutes to have
taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would
not hear of it: so the two poor fellows lived by
themselves, and finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortable,
they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of
the danger of the savages, who always landed on
the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their magazines and stores in;
and the Spaniards having given them some corn
for seed, and especially some of the pease which I
had left them, they dug and planted, and inclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began
to live pretty well: their first crop of corn was on
the ground, and though it was but a little bit of
land which they had dug up at first, having had
but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them,
and find them with bread or other eatables; and
one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of the
ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings,
and such other preparations, as the rice and the
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture,
when the three unnatural rogues, their own coun-
trymen too, in mere humour, and to insult them,
came and bullied them, and told them the island
was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had
given them possession of it, and nobody else had
any right to it; and, damn them, they should build
no houses upon their ground, unless they would
pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first,
and asked them to come and sit down, and see
what fine houses they were that they had built,
and tell them what rent they demanded: and one
of them merrily told them, if they were ground-
landlords, he hoped if they built tenements upon
the land, and made improvements, they would, ac-
cording to the custom of all landlords, grant them
a long lease; and bid them go fetch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and
raging, told them they should see they were not in
jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where
the honest men had made a fire to dress their
victuals, he takes a firebrand and claps it to the
outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire;
and it would have been all burnt down in a few
minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fel-
low, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his
feet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest
man's thrusting him away, that he turned upon
him with a pole he had in his hand; and had not
the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run
into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran
in after him, and immediately they came both out
with their muskets; and the man that was first
struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down
who began the quarrel, with the stock of his mus-
#et, and that before the other two could come to
help him; and then seeing the rest come at them,
they stood together, and presenting the other ends
of their pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one
of the two honest men, bolder than his comrade,
and made desperate by his danger, told them if
they offered to move hand or foot they were all
dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay
down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; but seeing him resolute, it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their
wounded man with them, and be gone; and, in-
deed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently
with the blow: however, they were much in the
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did
not disarm them effectually, as they might have
done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards,
and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing
but revenge, and every day gave them some inti-
mation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of
the lesser part of their rogueries, such as treading
down their corn, shooting three young kids and a
she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and in a word, plaguing them
night and day in this manner, it forced the two
men to such a desperation, that they resolved to
fight them all three the first time they had a fair
opportunity. In order to this they resolved to go
to the castle, as they called it, that was my old
dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together at that time, intending to have a
fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to
see fair play. So they got up in the morning be-
fore day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
CHAP. XI.
Marrative continued—Insolence of three of the Eng-
lishmen to the Spaniards—They are disarmed and
brought to order—A great body of Savages land
upon the Island—They turn out to be two adverse
Nations met there by chance—A bloody Battle be-
twirt them—Several of the vanquished Party secu-
red by the Spaniards.
IT happened that the day before two of the Spa-
niards, having been in the woods, had seen one of
the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I call
the honest men; and he had made a sad complaint to
the Spaniards, of the barbarous usage they had met
with from their three countrymen, and how they
had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their
corn, that they had laboured so hard to bring for-
ward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sus-
tenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came
home at night, and they were all at supper, he took
the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in gentle and mannerly terms, and asked
them, how they could be so cruel, they being harm-
less inoffensive fellows, and that they were putting
themselves in a way to subsist by their labour,
and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to
bring things to such perfection as they had 2
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly,
“What had they to do there? That they came
on shore without leave, and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their
ground.”—“Why,” says the Spaniard, very calmly,
“Seignior Inglese, they must not starve.” The
Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn tar-
paulin, “they might starve and be damned, they
should not plant nor build in that place.”—“But
what must they do then, Seignior * says the Spa-
niard. Another of the brutes returned, “ Do!
d—n them, they should be servants, and work for
them.” “But how can you expect that of them
they are not bought with your money; you have
no right to make them servants.” The English-
man answered, “The island was theirs, the gover-
nor had given it to them, and no man had anything
to do there but themselves;” and with that swore
by his Maker, that he would go and burn all their
new huts; they should build none upon their land.
“Why, Seignor,” says the Spaniard, “ by the
same rule, we must be your servants too.” “Ay,”
says the bold dog, “ and so you shall too, before
we have done with you;” mixing two or three
G—d d-mme's in the proper intervals of his
speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and
made him no answer. However, this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says
to the other, I think it was he they called Will
Atkins, “ Come, Jack, let us go and have the other
brush with them; we will demolish their castle, I
will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in
our dominions.”
Upon this they were all trooping away, with
every man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and mut-
tered some insolent things among themselves, of
what they would do to the Spaniards too, when op-
portunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did
not so perfectly understand them as to know all
the particulars; only that, in general, they threat-
ened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's
part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not
know; but it seems they wandered about the coun-
try part of the night; and then lying down in the
place which I used to call my bower, they were
weary, and overslept themselves. The case was
this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and
so to take the poor men when they were asleep;
and they acknowledged it afterwards, intending to
set fire to their huts while they were in them, and
either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and, as malice seldom sleeps very sound,
it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking. -
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much fairer one
than that of burning and murdering, it happened,
and very luckily for them all, that they were up
and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues
came to their huts.
When they came thither, and found the men
gone, Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest man,
called out to his comrades, “Ha! Jack, here's the
nest; but d-n them, the birds are flown.” They
mused awhile to think what should be the occasion
of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently, that the Spaniards had given them notice
of it; and with that they shook hands, and swore
to one another, that they would be revenged of the
Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody
bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's ha-
bitation; they did not set fire indeed to any thing,
but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled
them so limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood; they tore all their little collect-
ed household-stuff in pieces, and threw every thing
about in such a manner, that the poor men found,
afterwards, some of their things a mile off from
their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the
young trees which the poor men had planted;
pulled up the enclosure they had made to secure
their cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked
and plundered every thing, as completely as a herd
of Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find
them out, and had resolved to fight them wherever
they had been, though they were but two to three:
so that, had they met, there certainly would have
been bloodshed among them; for they were all
very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them
asunder, than they themselves could do to meet:
for, as they had dogged one another, when the
three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them,
the three were come to the old habitation again:
we shall see their differing conduct presently.
When the three came back, like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had
been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by
way of scoff and bravado; and one of them step-
ping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as
it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about,
fleering in his face, says he to him, “And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce,
if you do not mend your manners.” The Spa-
niard, who though quite a civil man, was as brave
as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of
his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with
a pole-axe ; at which one of the rogues, insolent as
the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme-
diately: he missed his body indeed, for the bullets
went through his hair, but one of them touched the
tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt
than he really was, and that put him into some
heat, for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but
now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the
man who had fired at him; when the rest of the
Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling
to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they
had made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well
as their own countrymen, they began to cool; and
giving the Spaniards better words, would have had
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering
the feud that was between them and the other two
Englishmen, and that it would be the best method
they could take to keep them from one another,
told them they would do them no harm; and if
they would live peaceably they would be very wil-
ling to assist and associate with them, as they did
before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved
to do mischief with them to their own countrymen,
and had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear rea-
son than to act reason; but being refused their
arms, they went raving away, and raging like mad-
men, threatening what they would do, though they
had no fire-arms: but the Spaniards, despising their
threatening, told them they should take care how
they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle;
for if they did, they would shoot them, as they
would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found
them; and if they fell into their hands alive, they
would certainly be hanged. However, this was far
from cooling them; but away they went, swearing
and raging like furies of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and
rage enough also, though of another kind; for,
having been at their plantation, and finding it all
demolished and destroyed, as above, it will easily
be supposed they had provocation enough; they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spa-
niards were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was
strange enough to find, that three men should thus
bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and espe-
cially having thus disarmed them, made light of
their threatenings; but the two Englishmen re-
solved to have their remedy against them, what
pains soever it cost to find them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told
them, that they were already disarmed: they could
not consent that they (the two) should pursue them
with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them: “But,” said
the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, “we
will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for, as there is no doubt but they
will come to us again when their passion is over,
being not able to subsist without our assistance, we
promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this
condition we hope you will promise to use no vio-
lence with them, other than in your defence.”
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awk-
wardly, and with great reluctance; but the Spa-
niards protested, they did it only to keep them
from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last;
“For,” said they, “we are not so many of us;
here is room enough for us all, and it is great pity
we should not be all good friends.” At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue of the
thing, living for some days with the Spaniards;
for their own habitation was destroyed.
In about five days time the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger,
having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while,
came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two
more with him, walking by the side of the creek;
they came up in a very submissive humble manner,
and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them,
they had acted so unnaturally by their country-
men, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards),
that they could not come to any conclusion with-
out consulting the two Englishmen, and the rest;
but however they would go to them, and discourse
about it, and they should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed that they were very hard put to
VOL. II. s
it; for it seems, as they were to wait this half-hour
for an answer, they begged he would send them
out some bread in the mean time; which he did,
and sent them at the same time a large piece of
goat's flesh, and a broiled parrot, which they ate
very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called
in, and a long debate had about them, their two
countrymen charging them with the ruin of all
their labour, and a design to murder them; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not
deny now; upon the whole, the Spaniards acted
the moderators between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three,
while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows’
two huts, one to be of the same dimensions, and the
other larger than they were before; also to fence
their ground again, where they had pulled up the
fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled up,
dig up the land again for planting corn, where they
had spoiled it; and, in a word, to restore every
thing in the same state as they found it, as near as
they could; for entirely it could not be, the season
for the corn, and the growth of the trees and
hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this: and as they
had plenty of provisions given them all the while,
3
£hey grew very orderly, and the whole society be-
gan to live pleasantly and agreeably together again;
only that these three fellows could never be per-
suaded to work; I mean, not for themselves, ex-
cept now and then a little, just as they pleased;
however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if
they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation,
they would be content to work for them, and let
them walk about and be as idle as they pleased;
and thus having lived pretty well together for a
month or two, the Spaniards gave them their arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with
them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these
arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful crea-
tures began to be as insolent and troublesome as
before; but however, an accident happened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all; they were obliged to lay by all private
resentments, and look to the preservation of their
lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard gover-
nor, as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, who was now the captain, or lead-
er, or governor of the rest, found himself very un-
easy in the night, and could by no means get any
sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only found his thoughts tumultuous;
his mind ran upon men fighting, and killing one an-
other, but was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep; in short, he lay a great
while; but growing more and more uneasy, he re-
solved to rise: as they lay, being so many of them,
upon goats-skins, laid thick upon such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but one, so
they had little to do, when they were willing to
rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they
were ready for going any way that their thoughts
guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being
dark, he could see little or nothing; and besides,
the trees which I had planted, as in my former ac-
count is described, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up,
and see that it was a clear star-light night; and,
hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down
again; but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor
could he compose himself to anything like rest, but
his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and yet
he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them
waked, and, calling, asked who it was that was up ;
The governor told him how it had been with him.
“Say you so * says the other Spaniard; “ such
things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there is
certainly some mischief working,” says he, “near
us;” and presently he asked him,” “Where are
the Englishmen?”—“They are all in their huts,”
says he, “ safe enough.” It seems, the Spaniards
had kept possession of the main apartment, and had
made a place, where the three Englishmen, since
their last mutiny, always quartered by themselves,
and could not come at the rest. “Well,” says the
Spaniard, “there is something in it, I am persuad-
ed from my own experience; I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have converse with, and receive
intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and in-
habiting the invisible world; and this friendly no-
tice is given for our advantage, if we know how to
make use of it. Come,” says he, “let us go out
and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in
it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story to the
purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it.”
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong,
and in good company, nor alone, as I was, used
none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and
then pulling it up after them, to go up a second
stage to the top, but were going round through the
grove unconcerned and unwary, when they were
surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little
way off from them, and hearing the voices of men,
not of one, or two, but of a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to
prevent them making the least discovery of there
being any inhabitant upon the place; and when by
any necessity they came to know it, they felt it so
effectually, that they that got away, were scarce
able to give any account of it, for we disappeared
as soon as possible, nor did ever any that had seen
me, escape to tell any one else, except it were the
three savages in our last encounter, who jumped
into the boat, of whom I mentioned that I was
afraid they should go home, and bring more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those men, that so great a number came now to-
gether; or whether they came ignorantly, and by
accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spa-
niards could not, it seems, understand: but whatever
it was, it had been their business, either to have
concealed themselves, and not have seen them at
all; much less to have let the savages have seen,
that there were any inhabitants in the place; but
to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not
a man of them should have escaped, which could
only have been by getting in between them and
their boats: but this presence of mind was wanting
to them; which was the ruin of their tranquillity
for a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor, and
the man with him, surprised with this sight, ran
back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were
all in; and they again as readily took the alarm;
but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close
within where they were, but that they must all run
out to see how things stood.
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours,
to view them by the light of three fires they had
made at some distance from one another; what they
were doing they knew not, and what to do them-
selves they knew not; for, first, the enemy were
too many; and, secondly, they did not keep to-
gether, but were divided into several parties, and
were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at
this sight; and as they found that the fellows ran
straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt,
but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon
their habitation, or upon some other place, wher
they would see the tokens of inhabitants; and the
were in great perplexity also for fear of their flock
of goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, if they should have been destroyed;
so the first thing they resolved upon, was to dis-
patch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the
goats away to the great valley where the cave was,
and, if need were, to drive them into the very cave
itself.
Could they have seen the savages all together in
one body, and at a distance from their canoes, they
resolved, if there had been an hundred of them, to
have attacked them; but that could not be obtained,
for there were some of them two miles off from the
other, and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two
different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course
they should take, and beaten their brains in consi-
dering their present circumstances, they resolved at
last, while it was dark, to send the old savage (Fri-
day's father) out as a spy, to learn if possible some-
thing concerning them, as what they came for, and
what they intended to do, and the like. The old
man readily undertook it, and stripping himself
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he
went. After he had been gone an hour or two, he
brings word that he had been among them undis-
covered, that he found they were two parties, and
of two several nations, who had war with one an-
other, and had had a great battle in their own
country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were by mere
chance landed in the same island for the devour-
ing their prisoners, and making merry; but their
coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled
all their mirth; that they were in a great rage at
one another, and were so near, that he believed
they would fight again as soon as daylight began to
appear; but he did not perceive that they had any
motion of any body's being on the island but them-
selves. He had hardly made an end of telling the
story, when they could perceive, by the unusual
noise they made, that the two little armies were en-
gaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could
to persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen:
he told them their safety consisted in it, and that
they had nothing to do but to lie still, and the sa-
vages would kill one another to their hands, and
the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon
the Englishmen, their curiosity was so importunate
upon their prudentials, that they must run out and
see the battle; however, they used some caution,
viz. they did not go openly just by their own dwel-
ling, but went farther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might secure-
ly see them manage the fight, and, as they thought,
not to be seen by them; but it seems the savages
did see them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and if I might be-
lieve the Englishmen, one of them said he could
perceive that some of them were men of great
bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held
two hours before they could guess which party
would be beaten; but then that party which was
nearest our people's habitation began to appear
weakest, and, after some time more, some of them
began to fly; and this put our men again into a
great consternation, lest any of those that fled
should run into the grove before their dwelling for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place,
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved,
that they would stand armed within the wall, and
whoever came into the grove they should sally out
over the wall, and kill them, so that if possible not
one should return to give an account of it; they
ordered also, that it should be done with their swords,
or by knocking them down with the stock of the
musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising
an alarm by the noise.
As they expected it fell out: three of the routed
army fled for life, and crossing the creek ran di-
rectly into the place, not in the least knowing whi-
ther they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition to our
men's great satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors
had not pursued them, or seen which way they
were gone. Upon this the Spaniard governor, a
man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the
three fugitives; but sending three men out by the
top of the hill, ordered them to go round and come
in behind them, surprise and take them prisoners;
which was done: the residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes, and got off to sea; the
victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little,
but drawing themselves into a body together, gave
two great screaming shouts, which they supposed
were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended;
and the same day, about three o'clock in the after-
moon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus
the Spaniards had their island again free to them-
selves, their fright was over, and they saw no sava-
ges in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came
out of their den, and viewing the field of battle, they
found about two-and-thirty dead men upon the
spot; some were killed with great long arrows, se-
veral of which were found sticking in their bodies,
but most of them were killed with their great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found
in the field of battle, and as many bows, with a
great many arrows. These swords were great un-
wieldy things, and they must be very strong men
that used them; most of those men that were kil-
led with them had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their
brains knocked out, and several of their arms and
legs broken; so that it is evident they fight with
inexpressible rage and fury. They found not one
wounded man that was not stone dead; for either
they stay by their enemy till they have quite kil-
led them, or they carry all the wounded men, that
are not quite dead, away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a
great while; the sight had filled them with horror,
and the consequence appeared terrible to the last
degree, especially upon supposing that some time
or other they should fall into the hands of those
creatures, who would not only kill them as ene-
mies, but kill them for food as we kill our cattle.
And they professed to me, that the thoughts of
being eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was
supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their
very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with unusual terror,
that they were not themselves for some weeks
after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of, and for a great
while after they were very tractable, and went about
the common business of the whole society well
enough; planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be
all naturalized to the country; but some time after
this they fell all into such simple measures again as
brought them into a great deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had ob-
served; and these three being lusty stout young
fellows, they made them servants, and taught them
to work for them; and as slaves they did well
enough; but they did not take their measures with
them as I did by my man Friday, viz. to begin
with them upon the principle of having saved their
lives, and then instructed them in the rational
principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing
and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate
arguings; but as they gave them their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept
them fully employed in drudgery enough; but they
failed in this by it, that they never had them to
assist them and fight for them as I had my man
Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh
upon my bones.
But to come to the family part: Being all now
good friends (for common danger, as I said above,
had effectually reconciled them,) they began to
consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing that came under their consideration was,
whether, seeing the savages particularly haunted
that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to
their way of living, and manifestly to their advan-
tage, they should not rather remove their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle
and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived
that they should not remove their habitation, be-
cause that some time or other they thought they
might hear from their governor again, meaning
me; and if I should send any one to seek them, I
would be sure to direct them on that side, where if
they should find the place demolished they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were
gone, and so our supply would go away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper to both, and where
indeed there was land enough; however, upon se-
cond thoughts they altered one part of that resolu-
tion too, and resolved only to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there;
and so, if one part was destroyed, the other might
be saved; and one piece of prudence they used,
which it was very well they did; viz. that they
never trusted these three savages, which they had
taken prisoners, with knowing any thing of the
plantation they had made in that valley, or of any
cattle they had there; much less of the cave there,
which they kept in case of necessity as a safe re-
treat; and thither they carried also the two bar-
rels of powder which I had left them at my co-
ming away.
But however they resolved not to change their
habitation; yet they agreed, that as I had careful-
ly covered it first with a wall and fortification, and
then with a grove of trees; so seeing their safety
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which
they were now fully convinced, they set to work to
cover and conceal the place yet more effectually
than before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees
(or rather thrust in stakes which in time all grew
to be trees) for some good distance before the en-
trance into my apartment, they went on in the same
manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space
of ground, from the trees I had set quite down to
the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my
floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide
flowed, not so much as leaving any place to land,
or any sign that there had been any landing there-
about. These stakes also being of a wood very for-
ward to grow, as I had noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller
than those which I had planted, and placed them
so very thick and close, that when they had been
three or four years grown, there was no piercing
with the eye any considerable way into the planta-
tion. As for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh; and
among them they placed so many other short ones,
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisa-
do a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate it but with a little army to cut
it all down; for a little dog could hardly get be-
tween the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by
all the ground to the right hand, and to the left,
and round even to the top of the hill, leaving no
way, not so much as for themselves to come out,
but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill,
and then lifted up and placed again from the first
stage up to the top; which ladder, when it was taken
down, nothing but what had wings or witch-craft
to assist it, could come at them.
This was excellently well contrived, nor was it
less than what they afterwards found occasion for;
which served to convince me, that as human pru-
dence has authority of Providence to justify it, so
it has, doubtless, the direction of Providence to set
it to work, and, would we listen carefully to the
voice of it, I am fully persuaded we might prevent
many of the disasters which our lives are now by
our own negligence subjected to: but this by the
way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after
this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits
from the savages; they had indeed an alarm given
them one morning, which put them in a great con-
sternation; for some of the Spaniards being out
early one morning on the west side, or rather end of
the island, which, by the way, was that end where
I never went, for fear of being discovered, they were
surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians
just coming on shore. -
They made the best of their way home in hurry
enough, and giving the alarm to their comrades,
they kept close all that day and the next, going out
only at night to make observation; but they had
the good luck to be mistaken, for wherever the
savages went, they did not land at that time on the
island, but pursued some other design.
vol. ii. - T
CHAP. XII.
-
Fresh broils betwixt the turbulent Englishmen and the
Spaniards—The English make a Voyage to the
Main Land, and return in twenty-two days—Par-
ticulars of their Voyage—Description of the Men
and Women they brought with them—The Colony
discovered by an unlucky accident to the Savages,
who invade the Island, but are defeated.
And now they had another broil with the three
Englishmen, one of which, a most turbulent fel-
low, being in a rage at one of the three slaves
which I mentioned they had taken, because the
fellow had not done something right which he bid
him do, and seemed a little untractable in his
shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt,
in which he bore it by his side, and fell upon him,
the poor savage, not to correct him but to kill
him. One of the Spaniards who was by, seeing
him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the
hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck
7 - -
into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut
the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and en-
treating him not to murder the poor man, clapt in
between him and the savage to prevent the mis-
chief.
The fellow being enraged the more at this,
struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore
he would serve him as he intended to serve the
savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided
the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his
hand (for they were working in the field about the
corn-land,) knocked the brute down; another of
the Englishmen running at the same time to help
his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down, and then
two Spaniards more came to help their man, and a
third Englishman fell upon them. They had none
of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third English-
man; he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the last Spaniards, and wounded
them both. This fray set the whole family in an
uproar, and more help coming in, they took the
three Englishmen prisoners. The next question
was, what should be done with them they had
been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so
desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew not
what course to take with them, for they were mis-
-
chievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did any man; so that, in short, it was
not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in
so many words, that if they had been his own
countrymen he would have hanged them all; for
all laws and all governors were to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to the society ought
to be expelled out of it; but as they were English-
men, and that it was to the generous kindness of
an Englishman that they all owed their preserva-
tion and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judge-
ment of the other two Englishmen, who were their
countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and
said they desired it might not be left to them;
“ For,” says he, “I am sure we ought to sentence
them to the gallows; and with that gives an ac-
count how Will Atkins, one of the three, had pro-
posed to have all the five Englishmen join together,
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in
their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls
to Will Atkins: “How, Seignior Atkins,” says he,
“will you murder us all? What have you to say
to that? That hardened villain was so far from de-
nying it, that he said it was true, and, G-d d-mn
him, they would do it still before they had done
with them. “Well but Seignior Atkins,” said
the Spaniard, “what have we done to you that you
will killus? And what would you get by killing us?
And what must we do to prevent your killing us?
Must we kill you, or will you kill us? Why will you
put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins :"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spa-
niard's making a jest of it, that had he not been
held by three men, and withal had no weapons
with him, it was thought he would have attempted
to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the
company.
This harebrained carriage obliged them to con-
sider seriously what was to be done. The two Eng-
lishmen and the Spaniard who saved the poor sa-
vage, were of the opinion that they should hang
one of the three for an example to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet;
and indeed there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the poor savage was in such a mi-
serable condition with the wound he had received,
that it was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, no, it was
an Englishman that had saved all their lives, and
he would never consent to put an Englisman to
death though he had murdered half of them: nay,
he said if he had been killed himself by an English-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that
they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the gover-
nor Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying it; and
as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, where
they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came in-
to it; but then it was to be considered what should
be done to keep them from the mischief they de-
signed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means
were to be used for preserving the society from
danger. After a long debate it was agreed, first,
that they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or
any weapon, and should be turned out of the so-
ciety, and left to live where they would, and how
they could by themselves; but that none of the
rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse
with them, speak with them, or have any thing to
do with them; that they should be forbid to come
within a certain distance of the place where the .
rest dwelt; and that if they offered to commit any
disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any
of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle
belonging to the society, that they should die
without mercy, and would shoot them wherever
they could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing
upon the sentence, considered a little upon it, and
turning to the two honest Englishmen, said, “Hold,
you must reflect, that it will be long ere they can
raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must
not starve: we must therefore allow them provi-
sions.” So he caused to be added, that they should
have a proportion of corn given them to last them
eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time
they might be supposed to raise some of their own;
that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats,
and six kids given them, as well for present sub-
sistence as for a store; and that they should have
tools given them for their work in the field; such
as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but
they should have none of these tools or provisions
unless they would swear solemnly that they would
not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them,
or of their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turn-
ed them out to shift for themselves. They went
away sullen and refractory, as neither contented to
go away or to stay; but as there was no remedy
they went, pretending to go and choose a place
where they should settle themselves, to plant and
live by themselves; and some provisions were
given them, but no weapons.
About four or five days after they came again

for some victuals, and gave the governor an ac-
count where they had pitched their tents, and
marked themselves out an habitation or plantation:
it was a very convenient place indeed, on the
remotest part of the island, N. E. much about the
place where I providentially landed in my first
voyage when I was driven out to sea, the Lord .
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sur-
round the island. -
Here they built themselves two handsome huts,
and contrived them in a manner like my first ha-
bitation, being close under the side of a hill, ha-
ving some trees growing already to the three sides
of it; so that by planting others it would be very
easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly
searched for. They desired some dry goat-skins
for beds and covering, which were given them;
and upon their giving their words that they would
not disturb the rest, or injure any of their planta-
tions, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,
for sowing, and, in a word, any thing they want-
ed but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six
months, and had got in their first harvest, though
the quantity was but small, the parcel of land they
had planted being but little; for indeed having all
their plantation to form, they had a great deal of
work upon their hands; and when they came to
make boards, and pots, and such things, they were
quite out of their element, and could make nothing
of it; and when the rainy season came on, for want
of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their
grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much; so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did; and in four days worked a great
hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things from the rain;
but it was but a poor place at best compared to
mine; and especially as mine was then; for the
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made se-
veral new apartments in it.
About three quarters of a year after this sepa-
ration, a new frolic took these rogues, which, to-
gether with the former villainy they had commit-
ted, brought mischief enough upon them, and had
very near been the ruin of the whole colony. The
three new associates began, it seems, to be weary
of the laborious life they led, and that without hope
of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they would make a voyage to the conti-
nent from whence the savages came, and would try
if they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to
make them do the laborious part of the work for
them.
The project was not so preposterous if they had
gone no farther; but they did nothing and pro-
posed nothing but had either mischief in the de-
sign, or mischief in the event; and if I may give
my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to
pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with divine justice? It was cer-
tainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of
mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state
they were in; and as they shewed not the least
remorse for the crime, but added new villanies to
it, such as particularly that piece of monstrous
cruelty of wounding a poor slave because he did
not, or perhaps could not understand to do what he
was directed, and to wound him in such a manner
as, no question, made him a cripple all his life, and
in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
had for his cure; and what was still worse, the
murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime,
the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was,
as was afterwards the formed design they all laid to
murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story:
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one
morning, and in very humble terms desired to be
admitted to speak with them: the Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to say, which was this,
that they were tired of living in the manner they
did, that they were not handy enough to make the
necessaries they wanted, and that having no help,
they found they should be starved; but if the Spa-
niards would give them leave to take one of the
canoes which they came over in, and give them
arms and ammunition proportioned for their de-
fence, they would go over to the main, and seek
their fortune, and so deliver them from the trou-
ble of supplying them with any other provisions. .
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of
them; but yet very honestly represented to them
the certain destruction they were running into;
told them they had suffered such hardships upon
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit
of prophecy, tell them, that they would be starved
or murdered, and bade them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be
starved if they stayed here, for they could not
work, and would not work: and they could but be
starved abroad; and if they were murdered, there
was an end of them, they had no wives or chil-
dren to cry after them, and, in short, insisted im-
portunately upon their demand, declaring that they
would go, whether they would give them any arms
or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness,
that if they were resolved to go, they should not
go like naked men, and be in no condition to de-
fend themselves, and that though they could ill
spare their fire-arms, having not enough for them-
selves, yet they would let them have two muskets,
a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet,
which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having
baked them bread enough to serve them a month,
and given them as much goat's flesh as they could
eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of
dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young
kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for
a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty
miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would
have very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and
therefore was rather too big for them to manage;
but as they had a fair breeze and the flood-tide
with them, they did well enough; they had made
a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-
skins dried, which they had sewed or laced to-
gether; and away they went merrily enough; the
Spaniards called after them, “Bon veajo;” and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another,
and the two honest Englishmen who remained be-
hind, how quietly and comfortably they lived now
those three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their ever coming again, that was the remotest
thing from their thoughts, could be imagined;
when, behold, after twenty-two days absence, one
of the Englishmen being abroad upon his planting
work, sees three strange men coming towards him
at a distance, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was be-
witched, and came frighted and amazed, to the
governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all un-
done, for there were strangers handed upon the
island, he could not tell who. The Spaniard pau-
sing a while, says to him, “How do you mean, you
cannot tell who They are savages to be sure.”
“No, no,” says the Englishman, “they are men
in clothes, with arms.”—“Nay then,” says the
Spaniard, “why are you concerned 2 If they are
not savages, they must be friends; for there is no
Christian nation upon earth but will do us good ra-
ther than harm.
While they were debating thus, came the three
Englishmen, and standing without the wood which
was new-planted, hallooed to them; they presently
knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that
kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned
upon another question, viz. What could be the
matter, and what made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in;
and inquiring where they had been, and what they
- had been doing? they gave them a full account
of their voyage in a few words, viz. that they
reached the land in two days, or something less,
but finding the people alarmed at their coming,
and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them,
they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the
northward six or seven hours, till they came to a
great opening, by which they perceived that the
land they saw from our island was not the main,
but an island: that entering that opening of the
sea, they saw another island on the right hand
north, and several more west; and being resolved
to land somewhere, they put over to one of the
islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore;
that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots,
and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable:
and the women, as well as the men, were very for-
ward to supply them with any thing they could get
for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way
upon their heads. -
They continued here four days, and inquired, as
well as they could of them by signs, what nations
were this way, and that way; and were told of se-
veral fierce and terrible people, that lived almost
every way; who, as they made known by signs to
them, used to eat men; but as for themselves, they
said, that they never ate men or women, except
only such as they took in the wars; and then they
owned that they made a great feast, and ate their
prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast
of that kind, and they told them two moons ago,
pointing to the moon, and then to two fingers; and
that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were
feeding them to make them fat for the next feast.
The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see
those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them
to carry away for their own eating, So they
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify,
that the next morning at sunrising they would
bring some for them; and accordingly the next
morning they brought down five women and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry
with them on their voyage, just as we would bring
so many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to
victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were
at home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and
they did not know what to do; to refuse the pri-
soners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that offered them; and what to do
with them they knew not; however, upon some
debate, they resolved to accept of them; and in
return they gave the savages that brought them
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets, which, though they did
not understand, they seemed extremely pleased
with; and then tying the poor creatures’ hands be-
hind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners
into the boat for our men. -
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as
soon as they had them, or else they that gave them
this noble present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them,
have killed two or three of them the next morning,
and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner.
But having taken their leave with all the respect
and thanks that could well pass between people,
where, on either side, they understood not one word
they could say, they put off with their boat, and
came back towards the first island, where when they
arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty,
there being too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some
communication with their prisoners, but it was im-
3
possible to make them understand any thing; no-
thing they could say to them, or give them, or do for
them, but was looked upon as going about to murder
them: they first of all unbound them, but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the women,
as if they had just felt the knife at their throats;
for they immediately concluded they were un-
bound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the
same thing; then they concluded it was for feam
they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough
to kill; if they looked at one of them more par-
ticularly, the party presently concluded it was to
see whether he or she was fattest and fittest to kill
first; nay, after they had brought them quite
over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them
well, still they expected every day to make a din-
ner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unac-
countable history or journal of their voyage, the
Spaniard asked them where their new family was
And being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were
come to beg some victuals for them; they (the
Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is
to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down
to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's
father with them.
WOL. II. u
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore
they bound their hands, that they might not take
the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were
three men, lusty, comely fellows, well shaped,
straight and fair limbs, about thirty or thirty-five
years of age, and five women; whereof two might
be from thirty to forty, two more not above twen-
ty-four or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall comely
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women
were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in
shape and features, only tawny; and two of them,
had they been perfect white, would have passed
for handsome women, even in London itself, having
very pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a
very modest behaviour, especially when they came
afterwards to be clothed, and dressed, as they call-
ed it, though that dress was very indifferent, it
must be confessed; of which hereafter.
The sight, you may be sure, was something un-
couth to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a
just character) men of the best behaviour, of the
most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good hu-
mour that ever I met with; and, in particular, of
the most modesty, as will presently appear: I say
the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men
and five naked women, all together bound, and in
10
the most miserable circumstances that human na-
ture could be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting
every moment to be dragged out, and have their
brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old In-
dian, Friday’s father, to go in and see first if he
knew any of them, and then if he understood any
of their speech. As soon as the old man came in,
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of
them; neither could any of them understand a
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one
of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end,
which was to satisfy them, that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they
abhorred eating of men or women, and that they
might be sure they would not be killed. As soon
as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward and several ways as is
hard to describe, for it seems they were of several
nations.
The woman who was their interpreter was bid,
in the next place, to ask them if they were willing
to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away to save their lives At which
they all fell a-dancing; and presently one fell to
taking up this, and another that, any thing that lay
next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that
they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having wo-
men among them would presently be attended
with some inconveniency, and might occasion
some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three
men what they intended to do with these women,
and how they intended to use them, whether as ser-
vants, or as women One of the Englishmen an-
swered very boldly and readily, that they would
use them as both. To which the governor said,
“I am not going to restrain you from it; you are
your own masters as to that: but this I think is
but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among
you, and I desire it of you for that reason only,
viz. that you will all engage, that if any of you
take any of these women as a woman, or wife, he
shall take but one; and that, having taken one,
none else should touch her; for though we cannot
marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable, that
while you stay here, the woman any of you takes
should be maintained by the man that takes her,
and should be his wife; “I mean,” says he, “while
he continues here; and that none else should have
any thing to do with her.” All this appeared so
just, that every one agreed to it without any diffi-
culty. -
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if
they designed to take any of them But every One
answered, “No:” some of them said they had
wives in Spain; and the others did not like women
that were not Christians; and all together decla-
red, that they would not touch one of them; which
was an instance of such virtue as I have not met
with in all my travels. On the other hand, to be
short, the five Englishmen took them every one a
wife; that is to say, a temporary wife; and so
they set up a new form of living; for the Spa-
niards and Friday's father lived in my old habita-
tion, which they had enlarged exceedingly within;
the three servants, which they had taken in the
late battle of the savages, lived with them; and
these carried on the main part of the colony, sup-
plying all the rest with food, and assisting them in
any thing as they could, or as they found necessity
required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such
refractory, ill-matched fellows, should agree about
these women, and that two of them should not
pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison, more
agreeable than the others: but they took a goo
way enough to prevent quarrelling among then
selves; for they set the five women by themselves
in one of their huts, and they went all into the
other hut, and drew lots among them who should
choose first.
He that drew to choose first, went away by him-
self to the hut where the poor naked creatures
were, and fetched out her he chose ; and it was
worth observing, that he that chose first took her
that was reckoned the homeliest and the oldest of
the five, which made mirth enough among the rest;
and even the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fel-
low considered better than any of them, that it was
application and business that they were to expect
assistance in as much as any thing else, and she
proved the best wife in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves in a row
thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of
their condition returned upon them again, and they
firmly believed that they were now going to be de-
voured: accordingly, when the English sailor came
in and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a
most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took
their leave of her with such agonies and such af.
fection as would have grieved the hardest heart in
the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen
to satisfy them that they were not to be imme-
diately murdered, till they fetched the old man,
Friday's father, who instantly let them know, that
the five men who had fetched them out one by one,
had chosen them for their wives.
When they had done this, and the fright the wo-
men were in was a little over, the men went to
work, and the Spaniards came and helped them;
and in a few hours they had built them every one
a new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those
they had already were crowded with their tools,
household-stuff, and provisions. The three wicked
ones had pitched farthest off, and the two ho-
nest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of
the island, so that they continued separate as be-
fore: and thus my island was peopled in three
places, and, as I might say, three towns were be-
gun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that
as it often happens in the world (what the wise
ends of God's providences are in such a disposition
of things I cannot say), the two honest fellows had
the two worst wives; and the three reprobates that
were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for no-
thing, and neither seemed born to do themselves
good, or any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives; not that the two first
were ill wives as to their temper or humour; for all
the five were most willing, quiet, passive, and sub-
jected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but
my meaning is, they were not alike capable, inge-
nious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour
of a diligent application on the one hand, and to
the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on
the other, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, planting, and
management of the several little colonies, the two
men had so far outgone the three, that there was no
comparison; they had indeed both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted;
and the reason was, because, according to my rule,
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow
more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and
indeed every thing else, was easy to be seen at
first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees
planted about their huts, that when you came to
the place nothing was to be seen but a wood; and
though they had their plantation twice demolished,
once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, as shall be shewn in its place; yet they had
restored all again, and every thing was flourishing
and thriving about them : they had grapes planted
in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
had themselves never seen any thing of that kind;
and by their good ordering their vines, their grapes
were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thick-
est part of the woods, where, though there was not
a natural cave, as I had found, yet they made one
with incessant labour of their hands, and where,
when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children so as they could
never be found; they having, by sticking innu-
merable stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I
said, grew so easily, made a grove impassable ex-
cept in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part, and then went in by ways of
their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them,
though they were much civilized by their new set-
tlement compared to what they were before, and
were not so quarrelsome, having not the same op-
portunity, yet one of the certain companions of a
profligate mind never left them, and that was their
idleness. It is true, they planted corn, and made
fences; but Solomon's words were never better ve-
rified than in them: “I went by the vineyard of
the slothful, and it was overgrown with thorns;”
for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds; the
hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats
had gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here
and there a dead bush was crammed in to stop
them out for the present, but it was only shutting
the stable-door after the steed was stolen; whereas,
when they looked on the colony of the other two,
there was the very face of industry and success
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen
in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's
words in another place: “ The diligent hand ma-
keth rich;” for every thing grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had
more tame cattle than the others, more utensils
and necessaries within doors, and yet more plea-
sure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy
and cleanly within doors; and having learnt the
English ways of dressing and cooking from one of
the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's
mate on board the ship, they dressed their hus-
bands' victuals very nicely; whereas the other could
not be brought to understand it; but then the hus-
band, who, as I said, had been cook's mate, did
it himself; but as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and
caught fish and birds; in a word, any thing but la-
bour, and they fared accordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived
hard and beggarly; and so I believe, generally
speaking, it is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene different from all
that had happened before, either to them or me;
and the origin of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore five or
six canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which
you please; and there is no room to doubt that they
came upon the old errand of feeding upon their
slaves; but that part was now so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not
concern themselves about it as I did; but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their
only business was to lie concealed, and that, if they
were not seen by any of the savages, they would
go off again quietly when their business was done,
having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been
made sensible of this, they had nothing to do but
to give notice to all the three plantations to keep
within doors, and not to shew themselves; only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice
when the boats went off to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a dis-
aster spoiled all these measures, and made it known
among the savages, that there were inhabitants
there, which was, in the end, the desolation of al-
most the whole colony. After the canoes with the
savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad
again, and some of them had the curiosity to go to
the place where they had been, to see what they
had been doing. Here, to their great surprise,
they found three savages left behind, and lying
fast asleep upon the gound; it was supposed they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman feast,
that, like beasts, they were asleep, and would not
stir when the others went, or they were wandered
into the woods, and did not come back in time to
be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this
sight, and perfectly at a loss what to do; the Spa-
niard governor, as it happened, was with them, and
his advice was asked; but he professed he knew
not what to do; as for slaves, they had enough al-
ready; and as to killing them, they were none of
them inclined to that. The Spaniard governor
told me they could not think of shedding innocent
blood; for as to them, the poor creatures had done
no wrong, invaded none of their property, and
they thought they had no just quarrel against them
to take away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards,
observe, that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never
met with seventeen men, of any nation whatsoever,
in any foreign country, who were so universally
modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humour-
ed, and so courteous as these Spaniards; and, as
to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very na-
ture; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous
passions, and yet all of them men of great courage
and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the insufferable usage of the three English-
men; and their justice and humanity appeared now
in the case of the savages as above. After some
consultation they resolved upon this, that they
would lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these
three men might be gone; but then the governor
Spaniard recollected, that the three savages had no
boat; and that if they were left to rove about the
island, they would certainly discover that there
were inhabitants in it, and so they should be un-
done that way.
Upon this they went back again, and there lay
the fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to
awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they
did so. The poor fellows were strangely frighted
when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and
eaten; for it seems those people think all the world
do as they do, eating men's flesh; but they were
soon made easy as to that: and away they carried
them.
It was very happy for them that they did not
carry them home to their castle; I mean to my pa-
lace under the hill: but they carried them first to
the bower, where was the chief of their country
work: such as the keeping the goats, the planting
the corn, &c.; and afterwards they carried them to
the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not
much they had for them to do; and whether it
was by negligence in guarding them, or that they
thought the fellows could not mend themselves,
I know not, but one of them ran away, and ta-
king into the woods, they could never hear of him
more.
They had good reason to believe he got home
again soon after in some other boats or canoes of
savages, who came on shore three or four weeks
afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels as
usual, went off again in two days time. This
thought terrified them exceedingly; for they con-
cluded, and that not without good cause indeed,
that if this fellow got safe home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account
that there were people in the island, as also how
weak and few they were; for this savage, as I ob-
served before, had never been told, as it was very
happy he had not, how many they were, or where
they lived, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire
of any of their guns, much less had they shewn
him any other of their retired places, such as the
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the
two Englishmen had made, and the like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow
had given intelligence of them was, that about two
months after this six canoes of savages, with about
seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came row-
ing along the north side of the island, where they
never used to come before, and landed about an
hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a
mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen,
where this escaped man had been kept. As the
Spaniard governor said, had they been all there
the damage would not have been so much, for not
a man of them would have escaped: but the case
differed now very much; for two men to fifty were
too much odds. The two men had the happiness
to discover them about a league off, so that it was
above an hour before they landed, and as they
landed about a mile from their huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now ha-
ving great reason to believe that they were betray-
ed, the first thing they did was to bind the slaves
which were left, and cause two of the three men
whom they brought with the women, who, it seems,
proved very faithful to them, to lead them with
their two wives, and whatever they could carry
away with them, to their retired place in the
woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to
bind the two fellows hand and foot till they heard
farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all
come on shore, and that they bent their course di-
rectly that way, they opened the fences where their
milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out,
leaving their goats to straggle into the wood, whi-
ther they pleased, that the savages might think
they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came
with them was too cunning for that, and gave them
an account of it all, for they went directly to the
place.
When the poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they
had of the three, who came with the women, and
who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm,
and desire speedy help; and in the mean time they
took their arms, and what ammunition they had,
and retreated towards the place in the wood where
their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet so
that they might see, if possible, which way the sa-
vages took.
They had not gone far but that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their ene-
mies come on directly to their habitation, and in a
moment more could see all their huts and house-
hold-stuff flaming up together, to their great grief
and mortification; for they had a very great loss,
and to them irretrievable, at least for some time.
5
They kept their station for a while, till they found
the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all
aver the place, rummaging every way, and every
place they could think of, in search for prey, and
in particular for the people, of whom it plainly ap-
peared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, so
they might come too many together, thought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile
farther, believing, as it afterwards happened, that
the farther they strolled, the fewer would be to-
gether.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very
thick grown part of the woods, and where an old
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly
large; and in this tree they both took their stand-
ing, resolving to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the
savages appeared running directly that way, as if
they had already notice where they stood, and were
coming up to attack them; and a little way far-
ther they espied three more coming after them,
and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word,
vol. ii. - x
they ran every way, like sportsmen beating for
their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whe-
ther they should stand and keep their posture, or
fly; but after a very short debate with themselves,
they considered, that if the savages ranged the
country thus before help came, they might, per-
haps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then
all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then
they would get to the top of the tree, from whence
they doubted not to defend themselves, fire except-
ed, as long as their ammunition lasted, though all
the savages that were landed, which were near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered
whether they should fire at the two first, or wait
for the three, and so take the middle party, by
which the two and the five that followed would be
separated: at length they resolved to let the two
first pass by, unless they should spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them. The two first sa-
vages also confirmed them in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of
the wood; but the three, and the five after them,
came forwards' directly to the tree, as if they had
known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so ºst towards them,
they resolved to take them in a line as they came;
and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, per-
haps the first shot might hit them all three; to
which purpose, the man who was to fire put three
or four bullets into his piece, and having a fair
loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the
tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, wait-
ing till they were within about thirty yards of the
tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages
came on, they plainly saw, that one of the three
was the runaway savage that had escaped from
them, and they both knew him distinctly, and re-
solved that, if possible, he should not escape,
though they should both fire; so the other stood
ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a marksman to miss
his aim; for as the savages kept near one another,
a little behind in a line, in a word he fired, and hit
two of them directly; the foremost was killed out-
right, being shot in the head; the second, which
was the runaway Indian, was shot through the
body and fell, but was not quite dead; and the
third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the same ball that went through the body of
the second; and being dreadfully frighted, though
not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, scream-
ing and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with
the noise than sensible of their danger, stood still
at first; for the woods made the sound a thousand
times bigger than it really was; the echoes rat-
tling from one side to another, and the fowls rising
from all parts, screaming and making, every sort,
a several kind of noise, according to their kind,
just as it was when I fired the first gun that, per-
haps, was ever shot off in that place since it was
an island.
However, all being silent again, and they not
knowing what the matter was, came on unconcern-
ed, till they came to that place where their com-
panions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and
here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that
they were within reach of the same mischief, stood
all of a huddle over the wounded man, talking,
and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he
came to be hurt; and who, it is very rational to
believe, told them that a flash of fire first, and im-
mediately after that thunder from their gods, had
killed those two, and wounded him. This, I say,
is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, so they had never
heard a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard
of a gun; neither knew they any thing of killing
or wounding at a distance with fire and bullets; if
they had, one might reasonably believe that they
would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing
the fate of their fellows without some apprehension
of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me
it grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor
creatures, who at the same time had no motion of
their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again,
resolved to let fly both together among them, and
singling out by agreement which to aim at, they
shot together, and killed, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our
men, seeing them all fall together, thought they
had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made
our two men come boldly out from the tree before
they had charged their guns again, which was a
wrong step, and they were under some surprise
when they came to the place, and found no less
than four of the men alive, and of them two very
little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them
to fall upon them with the stocks of their mus-
kets; and first they made sure of the runaway sa-
vage that had been the cause of all the mischief,
and of another that was hurt in his knee, and put
them out of their pain. Then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them
with his two hands held up, and made piteous
moan to them by gestures and signs for his life,
but could not say one word to them that they
could understand.
However, they signified to him to sit down at
the foot of a tree thereby; and one of the English-
men, with a piece of rope-twine which he had by
great chance in his pocket, tied his feet fast toge-
ther, and his hands behind him, and there they
left him; and with what speed they could make
after the other two which were gone before, fear-
ing they, or any more of them, should find the
way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay.
They came once in sight of the two men, but it
was at a great distance; however, they had the
satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards
the sea, the quite contrary way from that which
led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and
being satisfied with that, they went back to the
tree where they left their prisoner, who as they
supposed was delivered by his comrades; for he
was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn with
which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of
the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before,
not knowing what course to take, or how near
the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so
they resolved to go away to the place where their
wives were, to see if all was well there, and to
make them easy, who were in fright enough to
be sure; for though the savages were their own
country-folks, yet they were most terribly afraid
of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge
they had of them. -
When they came thither, they found the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place,
but had not found it; for indeed it was inaccessible,
by the trees standing so thick, as before, unless
the persons seeking it had been directed by those
that knew it, which these were not; they found,
therefore, every thing very safe, only the women
in a terrible fright. While they were here they
had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance: the other ten with their ser-
vants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's father,
were gone in a body to defend their bower, and
the corn and cattle that were kept there, in case
the savages should have roved over to that side of
the country; but they did not spread so far. With
the seven Spaniards came one of the savages, who,
as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with
them also came the savage whom the Englishmen
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it
seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of
the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought
him along with them, where, however, they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had done the
two others, who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them;
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that
they thought they were under an absolute neces-
sity to kill them for their own preservation: how-
ever, the Spaniard governor would not consent to
it; but ordered, that they should be sent out of
the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there, with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food: which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy
themselves to stay any longer there; but taking
five of the Spaniards, and themselves, with four
muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout
quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the
savages. And first, they came to the tree where
the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy
to see that some more of the savages had been
there; for they attempted to carry their dead men
away, and had dragged two of them a good way,
but had given it over; from thence they advanced
to the first rising ground, where they had stood and
seen their camp destroyed, and where they had the
mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither could they here see any of the savages:
they then resolved, though with all possible cau-
tion, to go forward towards their ruined planta-
tion; but a little before they came thither, coming
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the sa-
vages all embarking again in their canoes, in order
to be gone.
They seemed sorry at first that there was no
way to come at them to give them a parting blow;
but upon the whole were very well satisfied to be
rid of them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined,
and all their improvements destroyed, the rest all
agreed to come and help them to rebuild, and to
assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having
the least inclination to do any thing good, yet, as
soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote,
knew nothing till all was over.) came and offered
their help and assistance, and did very friendly
work for several days to restore their habitations,
and make necessaries for them; and thus in a little
time they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this, they had the farther
satisfaction of seeing three of the savages canoes
come driving on shore, and at some distance from
them, with two drowned men; by which they had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm
at sea, which had overset some of them, for it blew
very hard the night after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so on the
other hand enough of them escaped to inform the
rest, as well of what they had done, as of what
happened to them; and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature, which they, it seems,
resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to carry
all before them; for except what the first man had ".
told them of inhabitants, they could say little to it
of their own knowledge; for they ºver saw one
man, and the fellow being killed that had affirmed
it, they had no other witnesses to confirm it to
them.
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME,
Edi N BURGH t
Printed by James Ballantyne & Co.
EEC

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
To WHICH IS PREFIxeld
A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
WOL. II.
EMBELLISHED WITH WOODEN CUTS,
EDINBURGH:
THE
FOR JOHN BALLANTYNE AND CO. AND BROWN AND
CROMBIE, EDINBURGH;
AND LONGMAN, HURST, REEs, AND oftME,
LONDON.
--
- 1810.
*" MN.

PUBLIC , , ... Tº
758803 A
ASTOR, LENOx AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
R 1935 l-







CONTENTS
o F
WOLUME SECON D.
CHAP. I.
Description of my situation in the Twenty-third year of my
Residence—Discover nine naked Savages round a Fire on
my side of the Island—My horror on beholding the dis-
mal work they were about—I determine on the destruc-
tion of the next Party at all risks—A Ship lost off the
Island–Go on board the Wreck, which I discern to be
Spanish–Procure a great variety of Articles from the
Wessel. . . . . . . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * . . . . . . . . . . . Page 1
CHAP. II.
Reflections—An extraordinary Dream—Discover five Ca-
noes of Savages on shore—Observe from my station two
miserable Wretches dragged out of their Boats to be de-
voured—One of them makes his Escape, and runs directly
towards me, pursued by two others—I take measures so as
to destroy his pursuers and save his life—Christen him
by the name of Friday, and he becomes a faithful and
excellent Servant................................. 24
CHAP. III.
I am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my abhor-
rence of the Cannibal practices of the Savages—He is
amazed at the effects of the Gun, and considers it an in-
telligent being—Begins to talk English tolerably–A
Dialogue—l instruct him in the knowledge of Religion,
and find him very apt—He describes to me some white
men who had come to his Nation, and still lived there, 50
CHAP. IV.
I determine to go over to the Continent—Friday and I
construct a Boat equal to carry twenty men–His dex-
terity in managing her—Friday brings intelligence of
three Canoes of Savages on shore—Resolve to go down
upon them—Friday and I fire upon the Wretches, and
save the life of a poor Spaniard—List of the Killed and
Wounded—Discover a poor Indian bound in one of the
Canoes, who turns out to be Friday's Father........75
CHAP. V.
I learn from the Spaniard that there were sixteen more of
his Countrymen among the Savages—The Spaniard and
Friday's Father, well armed, sail on a Mission to the
Continent—I discover an English Ship lying at anchor
off the Island—Her Boat comes on shore with three Pri-
soners—The Crew straggle into the Woods, their Boat
being aground—Discover myself to the Prisoners, who
prove to be the Captain and Mate of the Wessel, and a
Passenger—Secure the Mutineers.................. 103
CHAP. VI.
The Ship makes signals for her Boat—On receiving no an-
swer, she sends another Boat on shore—Methods by which
we secure this Boat's crew, and recover the Ship. . .129
CHAP. VII.
I take leave of the Island, and, after a long voyage, arrive
in England—Go down into Yorkshire, and find the great-
er part of my Family dead—Resolve to go to Lisbon
for information respecting my Plantation at the Brazils
—Meet an old Friend there, by whose means I become
rich—Set out for England over-land—Much annoyed by
Wolves on the road. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............. 158
CHAP. VIII.
Strange Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear—Terrible En-
gagement with a whole Army of Wolves—Arrive in
England safely, and settle my affairs there—I Marry,
and have a Family................. - - - - - - - ... ... 182
CHAP. IX.
Reflections—Unsettled state of Mind and Conversation
with my Wife thereon—Purchase a Farm in the County
of Bedford—Lose my Wife—I determine to revisit my
Island, and for that purpose settle all my affairs in Eng-
land—Description of the Cargo I carried out with me—
Save the Crew of a Wessel burnt at Sea........... .202
CHAP. X.
Steer for the West Indies—Distressing Account of a Bris-
tol Ship, the Crew of which we save in a state of Star-
vation—Arrive at my Island—Friday's joy on discover-
ing it—Affecting lnterview betwixt him and his Father
on landing—Narrative of the Occurrences on the Island
during my absence..............................234
CONTENTS.
CHAP. XI.
Narrative continued—Insolence of three of the Englishmen
to the Spaniards—They are disarmed and brought to or-
der—A great body of Savages land upon the Island—
They turn out to be two adverse Nations met there by
chance—A bloody Battle betwixt them—Several of the
vanquished Party secured by the Spaniards........ .265
CHAP. XII.
Fresh broils betwixt the turbulent Englishmen and the
Spaniards—The English make a Voyage to the Main-
Land, and return in twenty-two days—Particulars of
their Voyage—Description of the Men and Women they
brought with them—The Colony discovered by an un-
lucky accident to the Savages, who invade the Island,
but are defeated..................... - - - - - - . . . . .291)
IIFE AND ADVENTURES
of
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAP. I.
Description of my situation in the Twenty-third Year
of my Residence—Discover Nine naked Savages
round a Fire on my side of the Island—My horror
on beholding the dismal Work they were about—I
determine on the destruction of the next Party, at all
risks—A Ship lost off the Island–Go on board the
Wreck, which I discern to be Spanish–Procure a
great variety of Articles from the Vessel.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have but en-
joyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been con-
tent to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
VOL. II, A
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid
me down and died, like the old goat, in the cave :
I had also arrived to some little diversions and
amusements, which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did before; as,
first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so
articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to
me; and he lived with me no less than six-and-
twenty years: how long he might live afterwards
I knew not; though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils, that they live an hundred years; per-
haps some of my polls may be alive there still,
calling after poor Robin Crusoe to this day; I wish
no Englishman the ill luck to come there and hear
them; but if he did, he would certainly believe it
was the devil. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no less than sixteen
years of my time, and then died of mere old age;
as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed,
to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several
of them at first, to keep them from devouring me,
and all I had; but at length, when the two old
ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild
into the woods, except two or three favourites,
which I kept tame, and whose young, when they
10
had any, I always drowned, and these were part of
my family: besides these, I always kept two or
three household kids about me, which I taught to
feed out of my hand; and I had also more parrots
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin
Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I
take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him : I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
names I know not, which I caught upon the shore,
and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I
had planted before my castle wall, being now
grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all
lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above,
I began to be very well contented with the life I
led, if it might but have been secured from the
dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not
be amiss for all people, who shall meet with my
story, to make this just observation from it, viz.
How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil,
which in itself we seek most to shun, and which,
when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to
us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our de-
liverance, by which alone we can be raised again
from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give
many examples of this in the course of my unac-
countable life; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my
last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said
above, in my twenty-third year; and this being the
southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was
the particular time of my harvest, and required my
being pretty much abroad in the fields; when going
out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
thorough day-light, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance
from me of about two miles, towards the end of the
island, where I had observed some savages had
been, as before; but not on the other side; but, to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had, that
if these savages, in rambling over the island, should
find my corn standing, or cut, or any of my works
and improvements, they would immediately con-
clude that there were people in the place, and
would then never give over till they found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my
castle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself
in a posture of defence; I loaded all my cannon,
as I called them, that is to say, my muskets, which
were mounted upon my new fortification, and all
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last gasp; not forgetting seriously to recommend
myself to the divine protection, and earnestly to
pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the
barbarians; and in this posture I continued about
two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the
side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up
after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top
of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat
on my belly on the ground, and began to look for
the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made; not to warm them, for they had
no need of that, the weather being extreme hot;
but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous
diet of human flesh which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide
of ebb, they seemed to me to wait the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially
seeing them come on my side the island, and so
near me too; but when I observed their coming
must be always with the current of the ebb, I
began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind,
being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety
all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before; and having made this observation, I
went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away:
I should have observed, that for an hour and more
before they went off, they went to dancing, and I
could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glasses: I could only perceive, by my nicest
observation, that they were stark naked, and had
not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not distin-
guish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at
my girdle, and my great sword by my side, with-
out a scabbard; and with all the speed I was able
to make, I went away to the hill, where I had dis-
covered the first appearance of all. As soon as I
got thither, which was not less than two hours, (for
I could not go apace, being so loaded with arms as
I was,) I perceived there had been three canoes
more of savages on that place ; and looking out
further, I saw they were all at sea together, ma-
king over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially, when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and
part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and de-
voured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who, or how
many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which
they thus made to this island were not very fre-
quent; for it was above fifteen months before any
more of them came on shore there again; that is
to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or sig-
nals of them, in all that time; for as to the rainy
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at
least not so far; yet all this while I lived uncom-
fortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions
I was in of theircoming upon me by surprise; from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is
more bitter than the suffering, especially if there
is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering
humour; and took up most of my hours, which
should have been better employed, in contriving
how to circumvent and fall upon them the very
next time I should see them; especially if they
should be divided, as they were the last time, into
two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if I kill-
ed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another,
and so another, even ad infinitum, till I should be
at length no less a murderer than they were in be-
ing men-eaters, and perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day
or other fall into the hands of those merciless crea-
tures; if I did at any time venture abroad, it was
not without looking round me with the greatest
care and caution imaginable; and now I found, to
my great comfort, how happy it was that I had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst
not, upon any account, fire my gun, especially
near that side of the island where they usually
came, lest I should alarm the savages; and if
they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come back again, with perhaps two or three
hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then
I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months
more before I ever saw any more of the savages,
and then I found them again, as I shall soon ob-
serve. It is true, they might have been there once
or twice, but either they made no stay, or, at least,
I did not hear them; but in the month of May, as
near as I could calculate, and in my four and twen-
tieth year, I had a very strange encounter with
them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen
or sixteen months interval, was very great; I slept
unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night; in the day
great troubles overwhelmed my mind: in the night
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and the rea-
sons why I might justify the doing of it. But to
wave all this for a while, it was in the middle of
May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my
poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I marked
all upon the post still ; I say, it was on the sixteenth
of May, that it blew a great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a
very foul night was after it: I know not what was
the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading
in the Bible, and taken up with serious thoughts
about my present condition, I was surprised with
the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite diffe-
rent nature from any I had met with before; for
the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of
another kind: I started up in the greatest haste im-
aginable; and in a trice clapped up my ladder to
the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me,
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of
the hill; that very moment a flash of fire bade me
listen for a second gun, which accordingly in about
half a moment I heard, and by the sound knew
that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these
guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help.
I had this presence of mind at that minute as to
think, that though I could not help them, it may
be they might help me; so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a
good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill;
the wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though
the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out,
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up,
heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all
night long, till day broke; and when it was broad
day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a
great distance at sea, full east of the island, whe-
ther a sail, or an hull, I could not distinguish, no
not with my glasses, the distance was so great, and
the weather still something hazy also: at least it
was SO (put at Sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon
perceived that it did not move; so I presently
concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and ran towards the south-east
side of the island, to the rocks, where I had been
formerly carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being per-
fectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow,
the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon
those concealed rocks which I found when I was
out in my boat; and which rocks, as they check-
ed the violence of the stream, and made a kind of
counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering then from the most desperate hopeless
condition that ever I had been in all my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.
and E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I
thought, have endeavoured to have saved them-
selves on shore by the help of their boat; but the
firing of their guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts: first, I imagined, that, upon seeing my
light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore;
but that the sea going very high, they might have
been cast away; other times I imagined, that they
might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking
of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges
men to stave, or take in pieces their boat; and some-
times to throw it overboard with their own hands;
other times I imagined, they had some other ship
or ships in company, who, upon the signals of dis-
tress they had made, had taken them up, and car-
ried them off: other whiles I fancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried
away by the current that I had been formerly in,
were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps they might by this time think of starving,
and of being in a condition to eat one another.
All these were but conjectures at best; so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to
God, who had so happily and comfortably provi-
ded for me in my desolate condition; and that of two
ships companies, who were now cast away upon this
part of the world, not one life should be spared but
mine. I learnt here again to observe, that it is
very rare that the providence of God casts us into
any condition of life so low, or any misery so great,
but we may see something or other to be thankful
for, and may see others in worse circumstances than
our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of
whom I could not so much as see room to suppose
any of them were saved; nothing could make it
rational, so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in com-
pany: and this was but mere possibility indeed;
for I saw not the least signal or appearance of any
such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing, or hankering of desire, I
felt in my soul upon this sight; breaking out some-
times thus: “O that there had been but one or
two, nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to
have escaped to me, that I might but have had one
companion, one fellow-creature to have spoken to
me, and to have conversed with!” In all the time
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or
so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the
affections, which, when they are set a going by
some object in view, or be it some object though
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by
the power of imagination, that motion carries out
the soul by its impetuosity to such violent eager
embracings of the object, that the absence of it is
insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, “That but one
man had been saved! O that it had been but one!”
I believe I repeated the words, “O that it had been
but one !” a thousand times; and my desires were
so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my
hands would clinch together, and my fingers press
the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft
thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involun-
tarily; and my teeth in my head would strike to-
gether, and set against one another so strong, that
for some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them; all I can say of them
is, to describe the fact, which was ever surprising
to me when I found it, though I knew not from
what it should proceed; it was doubtless the effect
of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my
mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation
of one of my fellow-christians would have been
to me.
But it was not to be ; either their fate, or mine,
or both, forbade it; for till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were sa-
ved out of that ship, or no; and had only the af-
fliction some days after to see the corpse of a drown-
ed boy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck: he had on no
clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but
nothing to direct me so much as to guess what
nation he was of: he had nothing in his pocket
but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe; the
last was to me of ten times more value than the
first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but
I might find something on board that might be
useful to me; but that did not altogether press me
so much, as the possibility that there might be yet
some living creature on board, whose life I might
not only save, but might, by saving that life, com-
fort my own to the last degree: and this thought
clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet
night nor day, but I must venture out in my boat
on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God’s providence, I thought the impression was
so strong upon my mind, that it could not be re-
sisted, that it must come from some invisible direc-
tion, and that I should be wanting to myself if I
did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for
fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum,
(for I had still a great deal of that left,) a basket
full of raisins; and thus loading myself with every
thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more:
my second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the
umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another
large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen
of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than be-
fore, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to
my boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage,
I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along
the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
island, on that side, viz. N. E. And now I was to
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture, or
not to venture; I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island,
at a distance, and which were very terrible to me,
from the remembrance of the hazard I had been
in before, and my heart began to fail me; for I
foresaw, that if I was driven into either of those
currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea,
and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small,
if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be
inevitably kºt.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I
began to give over my enterprise; and having hauled
my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me down upon a little spot of rising
ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear
and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned,
and the flood came on, upon which my going was
for so many hours impracticable; upon this it pre-
sently occurred to me, that I should go up to the
highest piece of ground I could find, and observe,
if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay,
when the flood came in, that I might judge whether,
if I was driven one way out, I might not expect to
be driven another way home, with the same rapid-
ness of the currents. This thought was no sooner
WOL. If, º -
in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill
which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways,
and from whence I had a clear view of the currents,
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide
myself in my return: here I found, that as the cur-
rent of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north of the island in my
return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for that night in the canoe,
under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launch-
ed out. I made first a little out to sea full north,
till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side
current had done before, and so as to take from me
all government of the boat; but having a strong
steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two
hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at : the ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in
between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of
her was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
5
with great violence, her main-mast and fore-mast
were brought by the board, that is to say, broken
short off, but her boltsprit was sound, and the head
and bow appeared firm. When I came close to
her, a dog appeared upon her, which, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried, and as soon as I called
him jumped into the sea to come to me; and I
took him into the boat, but found him almost dead
for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf that had
been starving a fortnight in the snow: I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with which,
if I would have let him, he would have burst him-
self.
After this I went on board. The first sight I
met with was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strang-
led with the constant rushing in of the water, as
much as if they had been under water. Besides
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had
life, nor any goods that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water : there were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which
lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being
ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to
meddle with: I saw several chests, which I belie-
ved belonged to some of the seamen, and I got two
of them into the boat without examining what was
in them. -
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
fore part broken off, I am persuaded I might have
made a good voyage; for by what I found in these
two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a
great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by
the course she steered, she must have been bound
from the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in
the south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to
the Havanna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so per-
haps to Spain: she had, no doubt, a great treasure
in her, but of no use at that time to any body :
and what became of the rest of her people I then
knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into
my boat with much difficulty. There were several
muskets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with
about four pounds of powder in it: as for the mus-
kets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and
a gridiron; and with this cargo, and the dog, I
eame away, the tide beginning to make home
again; and the same cvening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued
to the last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the
morning I resolved to harbour what I had gotten
in my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle.
After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars: the
cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not
such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word, not
at all good; but when I came to open the chests,
I found several things which I wanted: for exam-
ple, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an ex-
traordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters,
fine, and very good; the bottles held about three
pints each, and were tipped with silver: I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on the top, that the salt water had
not hurt them; and two more of the same, which
the water had spoiled: I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about
a dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and
coloured neckcloths; the former were also very
welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my
face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to
the till in the chests, I found there three great bags
of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a
paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars
or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh
near a pound.
The other chest I found had some clothes in it,
but of little value; but by the circumstances, it
must have belonged to the gunner's mate, as there
was no powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed
powder in the three flasks, kept, I suppose, for
charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon
the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was
of much use to me: for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt
under my feet; and I would have given it all for
three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not
had on my feet now for many years; I had, indeed,
got two pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet
of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck;
and I found two pair more in one of the chests,
which were very welcome to me; but they were
not like our English shoes, either for ease or service,
being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I
found in the seaman's chest about fifty pieces of
eight in royals, but no gold : I suppose this be-
longed to a poorer man than the other, which seem-
ed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my
~
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before,
which I brought from our own ship; but it was
great pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship
had not come to my share, for I am satisfied I
might have loaded my canoe several times over
with money, which, if I had ever escaped to Eng-
land, would have lain here safe enough till I might
have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all mythings on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way
to my old habitation, where I found every thing
safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family
affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough; only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked
out oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and
if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
such a load of arms and ammunition as I always
carried with me, if I went the other way.
CHIAP. II.
Reftections—An extraordinary Dream—Discover five
Canoes of Savages on shore—Observe from my station
two miserable Wretches dragged out of their boats to
be devoured—One of them makes his escape, and runs
directly towards me, pursued by two others—I take
Measures so as to destroy his Pursuers and sate his
life—Christen him by the name of Friday, and he be-
comes a faithful and excellent Servant.
I lived in this condition near two years more;
but my unlucky head, that was always to let me
know it was born to make my body miserable, was
all these two years filled with projects and designs,
how, if it were possible, I might get away from
this island; for sometimes I was for making ano-
ther voyage to the wreck, though my reason told
me, that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one
way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I
had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague
of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half
of their miseries flow: I mean, that of not being
satisfied with the station wherein God and nature
hath placed them; for, not to look back upon my
primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
father, the opposition to which was, as I may call
it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the
same kind have been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence,
which so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a
planter, blessed me with confined desires, and could
I have been contented to have gone on gradually,
I might have been by this time, I mean in the time
of my being on this island, one of the most consi-
derable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am persuad-
ed, that by the improvements I had made in that
little time I lived there, and the increase I should
probably have made if I had stayed, I might have
been worth a hundred thousand moidores; and
what business had I to leave a settled fortune, well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to
turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when
patience and time would have so increased our stock
at home, that we could have bought them at our
own doors, from those whose business it was to
fetch them? And though it had cost us something
more, yet the difference of that price was by no
means worth saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads,
so reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily
the exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought
experience of time; and so it was with me now;
and yet, so deep had the mistake taken root in my
temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my sta-
tion, but was continually poring upon the means
and possibility of my escape from this place; and
that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
bring on the remaining part of my story, it may
not be improper to give some account of my first
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme
for my escape; and how, and upon what founda-
tion, I acted. ~
I am now to be supposed to be retired into my
castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my fri-
gate laid up, and secured under water as usual, and
my condition restored to what it was before : I
had more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but
was not at all the richer; for I had no more use
for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spani-
ards came thither.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in
March, the four-and-twentieth year of my first set-
ting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in
my bed or hammock, awake, and very well in
health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness
of body, no, nor any uneasiness of mind more than
ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes,
that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night
long, otherwise than as follows:
It is as impossible as needless to set down the in-
numerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory,
in this night's time : I ran over the whole history
of my life in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may
call it, to my coming to this island; and also of
that part of my life since I came to this island; in
my reflections upon the state of my case, since I
came on shore on this island, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs, in the first years of
my habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear,
and care, which I had lived in ever since I had
seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island
even all the while, and might have been several
hundreds of them at times on the shore there; but
as I had never known it, and was incapable of any
apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect,
though my danger was the same; and I was as
happy in not knowing my danger, as if I had never
really been exposed to it: this furnished my
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and
particularly this one: How infinitely good that
Providence is, which has settled in its government
of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and
knowledge of things; and though he walks in the
midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of
which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind
and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by
having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
him.
After these thoughts had for some time enter-
tained me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real
danger I had been in for so many years in this very
island; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquillity, even
perhaps when nothing but a brow on a hill, a great
tree, or the casual approach of night, had been be-
tween me and the worst kind of destruction, viz.
that of falling into the hands of cannibals and sa-
wages, who would have seized on me with the same
wiew as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have thought
it no more a crime to kill and devour me, than I
did of a pigeon or a curlew. I should unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility,
that all these unknown deliverances were due, and
º
without which I should inevitably have fallen into
their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was
for some time taken up in considering the nature
of these wretched creatures, I mean, the savages;
and how it came to pass in the world, that the wise
Governor of all things should give up any of his
creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something
so much below even brutality itself, as to devour
its own kind : but as this ended in some (at that
time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to in-
quire what part of the world these wretches lived
in ; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; what they ventured so far from home for;
what kind of boats they had; and why I might
not order myself, and my business so, that I might
be as able to go over thither, as they were to come
to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider
what I should do with myself when I came thither;
what should become of me if I fell into the hands
of the savages; or how I should escape from them,
if they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it
was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be
attacked by some or other of them, without any
possibility of delivering myself; and if I should not
fall into their hands, what I should do for provision,
or whither I should bend my course: none of these
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but
my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my
passing over in my boat to the main land. I look-
ed back upon my present condition as the most
miserable that could possibly be; that I was not
able to throw myself into any thing but death that
could be called worse; that if I reached the shore
of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief; or
I might coast along, as I did on the shore of Afri-
ca, till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief; and after all, per-
haps, I might fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the worst came to the
worst, I could but die, which would put an end to
all these miseries at once. Pray, note, all this was
the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper,
made, as it were, desperate by the long continu-
ance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had
met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near the obtaining of what I
so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to,
and to learn some knowledge from, of the place
where I was, and of the probable means of my de-
liverance; I say, I was agitated wholly by these
thoughts. All my calm of mind in my resigna-
tion to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dis-
positions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended;
and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the
main; which came upon me with such force, and
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two
hours or more, with such violence, that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as
high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it; nature,
as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the
very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep:
one would have thought I should have dreamed of
it; but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it;
but I dreamed, that as I was going out in the morn-
ing, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two canoes and eleven savages coming to land, and
that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to
kill jumped away, and ran for his life: then I
thought in my sleep, that he came running into my
little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I seeing him alone, and not per-
ceiving that the others sought him that way, shew-
ed myself to him, and, smiling upon him, encoura-
ged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which I shewed my
ladder, made him go up it, and carried him into
my cave, and he became my servant; and that as
soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, “Now
I may certainly venture to the main land; for this
fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and
whither not to go for fear of being devoured: what
places to venture into, and what to escape.” I wa-
ked with this thought, and was under such inexpres-
sible impressions of joy at the prospect of my
escape in my dream, that the disappointments
which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage in my possession;
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should
bring hither to kill: but these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible
to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only
a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but,
on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the law-
fulness of it to me, and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was
for my deliverance: I need not repeat the argu-
ments which occurred to me against this, they be-
ing the same mentioned before: but though I had
other reasons to offer now, viz. that those men were
enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they
could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest
degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life,
and was acting in my own defence, as much as if
they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I
say, though these things argued for it, yet the
thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliver-
ance were very terrible to me, and such as I could
by no means reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled
in my head a long time), the eager prevailing de-
sire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest,
and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these sava-
ges into my hands, cost what it would : the next
thing then was to contrive how to do it; and this
indeed was very difficult to resolve on: but as I
could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I re-
solved to put myself upon the watch to see them
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the
event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let it be what it would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my-
self upon the scout as often as possible, and in-
WOL. II, c
deed so often, till I was heartily tired of it; for it
was above a year and a half that I waited, and for
a great part of that time went out to the west end
and to the south-west corner of the island, almost
every day, to see the canoes, but none appeared.
This was very discouraging, and began to trouble
me much; though I can't say that it did in this
case, as it had done some time before that, viz.
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but
the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: in a word, I was not at first more
careful to shun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, than I was now eager
to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one,
nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to
make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I
should direct them, and to prevent their being able,
at any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great
while that I pleased myself with this affair, but
nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for
a great while.
About a year and a half after I had entertained
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it
were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of
an occasion to put them in execution, I was sur-
prised one morning early, with seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together, on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight: the number of them
broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take any measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I lay still
in my castle, perplexed and discomforted; however,
I put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if any thing had presented. Having
waited a good while, listening to hear if they made
any noise; at length being very impatient, I set
my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered
up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual,
standing so, however, that my head did not appear
above the hill, so that they could not perceive me
by any means. Here I observed, by the help of
my perspective glass, that they were no less than
thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled, and
that they had had meat dressed; how they cooked
it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they were
all dancing in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived,
by my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by
and were now brought out for the slaughter: I
perceived one of them immediately fall, being
knocked down, I suppose, with a club or wooden
sword, for that was their way; and two or three
others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for
him. In that very moment this poor wretch see-
ing himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them,
and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands,
directly towards me; I mean towards that part of
the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknow-
ledge) when I perceived him to run my way: and
especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the whole body; and now I expected that part
of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelter in my grove; but I could
not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it, viz. that the other savage would not pur-
sue him thither, and find him there. However, I
kept my station, and my spirits began to recover,
when I found that there were not above three men
that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstript them exceedingly
in running, and gained ground of them; so that if
he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily
he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my
story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship;
and this I knew he must necessarily swim over,
or the poor wretch would be taken there: but
when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but
plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes,
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding
strength and swiftness. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, I found that two of them could
swim, but the third could not, and that he, standing
on the other side, looked at the other, but went no
farther; and soon after went softly back again,
which, as it happened, was very well for him in
the main.
I observed, that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than
the fellow was that fled from them. It came now
very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irre-
sistibly, that now was my time to get a servant,
and perhaps a companion, or assistant, and that I
was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediately got down the ladders
with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
for they were both at the foot of the ladder, as I
observed above; and getting up again with the
same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards
the sea; and having a very short cut, and all down-
hill, clapped myself in the way between the pur-
suers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned
with my hand to him to come back; and in the
mean time I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost,
I knocked him down with the stock of my piece;
I was loath to fire, because I would not have the
rest hear, though at that distance it would not have
been easily heard; and being out of sight of the
smoke too, they would not have easily known what
to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down,
the other who pursued him stopped, as if he had
been frightened, and I advanced apace towards
him: but as I came nearer, I perceived presently
he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot
at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
first; which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though
he saw both his enemies fallen, and killed (as he
thought,) yet was so frighted with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward, nor went backward, though he seem-
ed rather inclined to fly still, than to come on. I
hallooed again to him, and made signs to come for-
ward, which he easily understood, and came a little
way, then stopped again, and then a little farther,
and stopped again; and I could then perceive, that

was tting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated
to shot at him first; which I did, and killed him at the
first flot.
i
Wol. II. Page 38.

º

he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prison-
er, and had just been to be killed, as his two ene-
mies were. I beckoned him again to come to me,
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that
I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token
of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him
to come still nearer. At length he came close to
me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and
taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his
head. This, it seems, was in token of swearing to
be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much
of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the sa-
vage, whom I knocked down, was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to him-
self: so I pointed to him, and shewed him the sa-
vage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke
some words to me; and though I could not under-
stand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice
that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-
and-twenty years. But there was no time for such
reflections now: the savage, who was knocked down,
recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the
ground; and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him :
upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side; so I did : he no sooner
had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow
cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange for one, who, I had reason to
believe, never saw a sword in his life before, except
their own wooden swords: however, it seems, as I
learnt afterwards, they make their wooden swords
so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that
they will cut off heads even with them, nay, and
arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and, with abundance
of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it
down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was, to
know how I had killed the other Indian so far off;
so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him
go to him: so I bade him go, as well as I could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed,
looking at him; turned him first on one side, then
on t'other; looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which it seems was just in his breast, where
it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood
had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he
was quite dead. Then he took up his bow and
arrows, and came back: so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him
that more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not be seen by the
rest, if they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him, and did so also by the
other; I believe he had buried them both in a quar-
ter of an hour: then calling him away, I carried
him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island; so I did not let my
dream come to pass in that part; viz. that he came
into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go
lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had
laid a great parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket
upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times; so the poor creature lay down, and went to
sleep. -
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European in his coun-
tenance too, especially when he smiled: his hair was
long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead
very high and large, and a great vivacity and
sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Bra-
zilians and Virginians, and other natives of America,
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and plump,
his nose small, not flat like the Negroe's, a very
good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well set,
and white as ivory. After he had slumbered,
rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked
again, and comes out of the cave to me, for I had
been milking my goats, which I had in the enclo-
sure just by : when he espied me, he came running
to me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble thankful
disposition, making many antic gestures to shew
it. At last he lays his head flat upon the ground,
close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, made
all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how much
he would serve me as long as he lived. I under-
stood him in many things, and let him know I was
very well pleased with him. In a little time I be-
gan to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me;
and first, I made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life; and
I called him so for the memory of the time; I
likewise taught him to say Master, and then let
him know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him,
and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake of
bread to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned him to come with me,
and let him know I would give him some clothes:
at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark-
naked. As we went by the place where he had
buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot,
and shewed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again, and eat them: at this I ap-
peared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it,
made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away,
which he did immediately, with gre t submission.
I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if
his enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass,
I looked, and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their
canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, with-
out any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery: but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving
him the sword in his hand, with the bow and ar-
rows at his back, which I found he could use very
dexterously, making him carry one gun for me,
and I two for myself, and away we marched to
the place where these creatures had been; for I had
a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them.
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill
in my veins, and my heart sunk within me at the
horror of the spectacle: indeed it was a dreadful
sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothing of it: the place was covered with human
bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great pieces
of flesh left here and there, half-eaten, mangled,
and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the
triumphant feast they had been making there, af.
ter a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four
legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of the
bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand, that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there
had been a great battle between them and their
next king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been
one of; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all which were carried to several places
by those that had taken them in the flight, in or-
der to feast upon them, as was done here by these
wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them to-
gether on an heap, and make a great fire upon
it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh,
and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I dis-
covered so much abhorrence at the very thoughts
of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he
durst not discover it; for I had, by some means,
let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our
castle, and there I fell to work for my man Fri-
day; and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest
I mentioned, and which I found in the wreck; and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well;
then I made him a jerkin of goat's-skin, as well as
my skill would allow, and I was now grown a to-
lerable good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I
had made of a hare-skin, very convenient, and
fashionable enough: and thus he was dressed, for
the present, tolerably well, and mighty well was he
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these
things at first; wearing the drawers was very awk-
ward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a
little easing them, where he complained they hurt
him, and using himself to them, at length he took
to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch
with him, I began to consider where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well for him, and yet be
perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications,
in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the
first: and as there was a door or entrance there
into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the pas-
sage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my in-
nermost wall, without making so much noise in get-
ting over, that it must needs awaken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the hill, which was again laid cross with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice straw, which was
strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which
was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which if it had been attempted
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but
would have fallen down, and made a great noise;
and as to weapons, I took them all into my side
every night. -
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant,
than Friday was to me; without passions, sullen-
ness, or designs; perfectly obliging and engaging;
his very affections were tied to me, like those of
a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have
sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon any oc-
casion whatsoever : the many testimonies he gave
me of this put it out of doubt; and soon convinced
me, that I needed to use no precautions as to my
safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that, however it had pleased God
in his providence, and in the government of the
works of his hands, to take from so great a part of
the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties, and the powers of their souls, are
adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same powers, the same reason, the same affections,
the same sentiments of kindness and obligation,
the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the
same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all
the capacities of doing good, and receiving good,
that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these, they are
as ready, nay more ready, to apply them to the
right uses for which they were bestowed, than we
are. And this made me very melancholy some-
times, in reflecting, as the several occasions pre-
sented, how mean an use we make of all these,
even though we have these powers enlightened by
the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and
by the knowledge of his word, added to our under-
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so many millions of
souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage,
would make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to in-
vade the sovereignty of Providence; and, as it were,
arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of
things, that should hide that light from some, and re-
vealitto others, and yet except alike duty from both:
*
but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with
this conclusion: first, that we do not know by
what light and law these should be condemned; but
that as God was necessarily, and by the nature of
his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not
be, but that if these creatures were all sentenced to
absence from himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light, which, as the scripture says,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though
the foundation was not discovered to us: and, se-
condly, that still, as we are all clay in the hand of
the potter, no vessel could say to him, “Why hast
thou formed me thus *
But to return to my new companion: I was great-
ly delighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him every thing that was proper to make
him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to
make him speak, and understand me when I spake:
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was ; and
particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me,
or make me understand him, that it was very plea-
sant to me to talk to him. And now my life be-
gan to be so easy, that I began to say to myself,
that could I but have been safe from more savages,
I cared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.
W 0 L. II. p
CHAP. III.
I am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my al-
horrence of the Cannibal practices of the Savages—
He is amazed at the effects of the Gun, and consi-
ders it an intelligent being—Begins to talk English
tolerably—A Dialogue—I instruct him in the know-
ledge of Religion, and find him very apt—He de-
scribes to me some white Men who had come to his
and still lived there.
After I had been two or three days returned to
my castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday
off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him
taste other flesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods: I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sit-
ting by her. I catched hold of Friday: “Hold.”
said I, “stand still;” and made signs to him not to
stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had at
a distance indeed seen me kill the savage his enemy,
but did not know, or could imagine how it was done,
was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down: he did not see the kid I had shot at,
or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found,
presently thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see that his meaning was
to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I
had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering and
looking to see how the creature was killed, I load-
ed my gun again, and by and by I saw a great
fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been
a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly
I fired, and bid him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall: He stood like one frighted again,
notwithstanding all that I had said to him; and I
found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put any thing into the gun; but thought
there must be some wonderful fund of death and
destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast,
bird, or any thing near or far off; for the astonish-
ment this created in him was such, as could not
wear off for a long time; and I believe, if I would
have let him, he would have worshipped me and my
gun: as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after; but would speak to
it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when
he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learnt of
him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird, I
had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for
the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a
good way off from the place where she fell; how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to
me; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about
the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the
gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might
be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time; so I brought
home the kid; and the same evening I took the skin
off, and cut it out as well as I could, and having a
pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the
flesh, and made some very good broth: after I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who
seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well; but
that which was strangest to him, was, to see me
eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his
own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it. On the other hand, I took some
meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to
spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had
done at the salt; but it would not do, he would
never care for salt with meat, or in his broth; at
least, not a great while, and then but a very
little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roast-
ing a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it be-
fore the fire in a string, as I had seen many people do
in England, setting two poles up, one on each side
of a fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the
string to the cross stick, letting the meat run con-
tinually : this Friday admired very much; but
when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many
ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could
not but understand him; and at last he told me
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I
was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I
observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what
the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of; for after that I let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too; and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, as well as I
could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that, having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn,
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as
before, in which Friday not only worked very wil-
lingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully;
and I told him what it was for, that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself too:
he appeared very sensible of that part, and let
me know, that he thought I had much more la-
bour upon me on his account, than I had for my-
self, and that he would work the harder for me, if
I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well,
and understand the names of almost every thing I
had occasion to call for, and of every place I had
to send him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that,
in short, I began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which indeed I had very little occa-
sion for before; that is to say, about speech. Be-
sides the pleasure of talking to him. I had a singu-
lar satisfaction in the fellow himself; his simple un-
feigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side, I believe, he loved me more than
it was possible for him ever to love any thing be-
fore. -
I had a mind once to try if he had any hanker-
ing inclination to his own country again ; and ha-
ving learnt him English so well, that he could an-
swer me almost any questions, I asked him, whether
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled and said, “Yes, yes,
we always fight the better;” that is, he meant, al-
ways get the better in fight; and so we began the
following discourse: “You always fight the bet-
ter!” said I: “ how came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday "
Friday. My nation beat much for all that,
- º -
Master. How beat? if your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken 2
Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me:
my nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two great
thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your na-
tion do with the men they take Do they carry them
away, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither? -
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here [points to the N. W.
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side].
By this, I understood, that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages, who used to come
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the
said man-eating occasions that he was now brought
for; and some time after, when I took the courage
to carry him to that side, being the same I former-
ly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me, he was there once when they ate up twenty
men, two women, and one child: he could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered them by lay-
ing so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to
tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces
what follows; that after I had had this discourse with
him, I asked him, how far it was from our island to
the shore, and whether the canoes were not often
lost; He told me there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea, there
was a current, and a wind always one way in the
morning, the other in the afternoon.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out, or coming in; but I aft -
wards understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque;
in the mouth of which river, as I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which I
perceived to the W. and N. W. was the great island,
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near : he told me all he knew
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked
him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood, that these were
the Caribees, which our maps place on that part
of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards to St Mar-
tha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the
moon; that was, beyond the setting of the moon,
which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white-bearded men, like me, and pointed to
my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word:
by which I understood he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America had been spread over
the whole countries, and were remembered by all
the nations from father to son. -
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men;
he told me, Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe; I
could not understand what he meant by two canoe;
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant,
that it must be in a large great boat as big as two
CanoeS.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish
with me very well; and from this time I entertain-
ed some hopes, that one time or other I might find
an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
and that this poor savage might be a means to help
me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind; parti-
cularly I asked him one time, Who made him The
poor creature did not understand me at all, but
thought I had asked who was his father: but I took
it by another handle, and asked him, Who made
the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills and
woods? He told me it was one old Benamuckee,
that lived beyond all: he could describe nothing of
this great person, but that he was very old; much
older he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old
person had made all things, why did not all things
worship him He looked very grave, and, with a
perfect look of innocence, said, All things said O'
to him. I asked him if the people who die in his
country, went away any where He said, Yes, they
all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked him,
whether those they eat up went thither too? he
said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the
great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up
towards heaven; that he governs the world by the
same power and providence by which he made it;
that he was omnipotent, could do every thing for
us, give every thing to us, take every thing from
us: and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He
listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to re-
deem us, and of the manner of making our prayers
to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
heaven: he told me one day, that if our God could
hear usupbeyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little
way off, and yet could not hear, till they went up
to the great mountains, where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him He said, No, they never went that were
young men; none went thither but the old men;
whom he called their Oowookakee; that is, as I made
him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and
that they went to say O ! (so he called saying
prayers) and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there
is priestcraft even amongst the most blinded igno-
rant Pagans in the world; and the policy of making.
a secret of religion, in order to preserve the venera-
tion of the people to the clergy, is not only to be
found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religi-
ons in the world, even among the most brutish and
barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their
eld men going up to the mountains to say O ! to
their god Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their
bringing word from thence what he said, was much
more so; that if they met with any answer, or
spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil
spirit: and then I entered into a long discourse
with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the rea-
son of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of
the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of, to
delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret
access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt
his snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us even
to be our own tempters, and to run upon our own
destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
-in his mind about the devil, as it was about the
being of a God: nature assisted all my arguments
to evidence to him even the necessity of a great
First Cause, and over-ruling governing Power, a
secret directing Providence, and of the equity and
justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and
the like: but there appeared nothing of all this in
the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his being,
his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do
evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a
question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce
knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a con-
suming fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he
had made us all, he could destroy us, and all the
world in a moment; and he listened with great seri-
ousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs
of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in
the world, and the like: “Well,” says Friday, “but
you say God is so strong, so great, is he not much
strong, much might as the devil?”—“Yes, yes,”
said I, “Friday, God is stronger than the devil,
God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him under our feet, and enable us
to resist his temptations, and quench his fiery
darts.”—“But,” says he again, “if God much
strong, much might, as the devil, why God not kill
the devil, so make him no more wicked ”
I was strangely surprised at his question; and,
after all, though I was now an old man, yet I was
but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a
casuist, or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I
could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said but he was
too earnest for an answer to forget his question; so
that he repeated it in the very same broken words,
as above. By this time I had recovered my-
self a little, and I said, “God will at last punish him
severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to
be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire. This did not satisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my words, “Reserve at
last ! me no understand: but why not kill the devil
now, not kill great ago?”—“You may as well ask
me,” said I, “why God does not kill you and me,
when we do wicked things here that offend him:
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned.” He
muses a while at this; “Well, well,” says he,
mighty affectionately, “that well; so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.”
Here I was run down again by him to the last de-
gree and it was a testimony to me, how the mere no-
tions of nature, though they will guide reasonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship
or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature; yet nothing but divine
revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and of a redemption purchased for us; of a Medi-
ator; of a new covenant; and of an Intercessor at
the footstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but a
revelation from Heaven can form these in the soul;
and that therefore the Gospel of our Lord and Savi-
our Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier
of his people, are the absolutely necessary instruc-
tors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse be-
tween me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon
some sudden occasion of going out; then sending
him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God, that he would enable me to in-
struct savingly this poor savage, assisting, by his
Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ,
reconciling him to himself, and would guide me to
speak so to him from the word of God, as his con-
science might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul saved. When he came again to me, I
entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of
the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preach-
ed from Heaven, viz. of the repentance towards
God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus: I then
explained to him, as well as I could, why our bles-
sed Redemeer took not on him the mature of angels,
but the seed of Abraham, and how, for that reason,
the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than know-
ledge, in all the methods I took for this poor crea-
ture's instruction; and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will
find, that in laying things open to him, I really in-
formed and instructed myself in many things that
either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before; but which occurred naturally to my mind,
upon my searching into them for the information
of this poor savage; and I had more affection in
my inquiry after things upon this occasion, than
ever I felt before; so that whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me: my
grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew com-
fortable to me beyond measure; and when I re-
flected, that in this solitary life, which I had been
confined to, I had not only been moved myself to
look up to Heaven, and to seek to the Hand that
brought me thither, but was now to be made an in-
strument, under Providence, to save the life, and,
for aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and
bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and
of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal; I say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I frequent-
ly rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place,
WOL. II, e
which I had often thought the most dreadful of all
afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the re-
mainder of my time; and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and me was
such, as made the three years which we lived there
together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in
a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have
reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comforted restored penitents:
we had here the word of God to read, and no far-
ther off from his Spirit to instruct than if we had
been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture,
and to let him know as well as I could the mean-
ing of what I read; and he again, by his serious
inquiries and questions, made me, as I said before,
a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge,
than I should ever have been by my own private
reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from ob-
serving here also from experience, in this retired
part of my life; viz, how infinite and inexpressible
a blessing it is, that the knowledge of God, and of
the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so
plainly laid down in the word of God, so easy to
be received and understood, that as the bare read-
4.
ing the Scripture made me capable of understand-
ing enough of my duty to carry me directly on to
the great work of sincere repentance for my sins,
and laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation,
to a stated reformation of practice, and obedience
to all God's commands, and this without any teacher
or instructor (I mean, human); so the plain instruc-
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this sa-
vage creature, and bringing him to be such a Chris-
tain, as I have known few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and con-
tention, which has happened in the world about
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes
of church-government, they were all perfectly use-
less to us, as, for aught I can yet see, they have
been to all the rest in the world: we had the sure
guide to heaven, viz. the word of God; and we
had, blessed be God! comfortable views of the
Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by his
word, leading us into all truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word; and I cannot see the least use that the
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in reli-
gion, which have made such confusions in the
world, would have been to us, if we could have ob-
tained it. But I must go on with the historical part
of things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my co-
ming into the place, how I had lived there, and
how long : I let him into the mystery (for such it
was to him) of gunpowder and bullets, and taught
him how to shoot: I gave him a knife, which he
was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him
a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in ; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon in some cases, but much more use-
ful upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to
one another, and how we traded in ships to all the
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and shewed
him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces long before, and
quite gone.
I shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir
with my whole strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood musing a great while, and said nothing; I
asked him what it was he studied upon At last,
says he, “Me see such boat like come to place at
my nation.”
I did not understand him a good while; but at
last, when I had examined farther into it, I under-
stood by him, that a boat, such as that had been,
came on shore upon the country where he lived;
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive
ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much
less whence they might come; so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough;
but brought me better to understand him, when he
added, with some warmth, “We save the white
mans from drown.” Then I presently asked him,
if there were any white mans, as he called them,
in the boat? “Yes,” he said, “the boat full of white
mans.” I asked him, how many he told upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him then, what became
of them 2 he told me, “ They live, they dwell at
my nation.”
This put new thoughts into my head again; for
I presently imagined, that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight of
my island, as I now call it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her ine-
vitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the sa-
vages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically,
what was become of them He assured me they..
lived still there, that they had been there about
four years, that the savages let them alone, and
gave them victuals to live. I asked him how it
came to pass they did not kill them, and eat them?
He said, “No, they make brother with them:”
that is, as I understood him, a truce: and then he
added, “They eat no mans but when make the
war fight:” that is to say, they never eat any men,
but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of the
island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear
day discovered the main or continent of America;
Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main land, and in a kind of
surprise falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out
to me, for I was at some distance from him: I ask-
ed him what was the matter “O joy!” says he,
“O glad! there see my country, there my na-
tion "
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again; and
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts
into me; which made me at first not so easy about
my new man Friday as I was before; and I made
no doubt but that if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligations to me; and would
be forward enough to give his countrymen an ac-
count of me, and come back, perhaps, with an hun-
dred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at
which he might be as merry as he used to be with
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very
much, for which I was very sorry afterwards: how-
ever, as my jealousy increased, and held me some
weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so
familiar and kind to him as before; in which I
was certainly in the wrong too, the honest grateful
creature having no thought about it, but what con-
sisted of the best principles, both as a religious
Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared af.
terwards to my full satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts which I
suspected were in him; but I found every thing he
said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite
of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely
his own again; nor did he in the least perceive that
I was uneasy; and therefore I could not suspect
him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said, “Friday, do
not you wish yourself in your own country, your
own nation ?”—“Yes,” he said, “I be much O
glad to be at my own nation.”—“What would you
do there?” said I : “ would you turn wild again,
eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were
before ?” He looked full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, “No, no, Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again.”
—“Why then,” said I to him, “ they will kill you.”
He looked grave at that, and then said, “ No,
they no kill me, they willing love learn:” he meant
by this, they would be willing to learn. He added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came
in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make
a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. “I go!” said I, “why, they
will eat me if I come there.”—“No, no,” says he,
“me make them no eat you, me make they much
love you:” he meant he would tell them how I had
killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me, as well as
he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came
on shore in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to ven-
ture over, and see if I could possibly join with these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt were Spa-
niards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could,
we might find some method to escape from thence,
being upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could from an island forty
miles off the shore, and alone without help. So,
after some days, I took Friday to work again, by
way of discourse; and told him, I would give him
a boat to go back to his own nation; and accord-
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on
the other side of the island; and having cleared it
of water (for I always kept it sunk in the water),
I brought it out, shewed it him, and we both went
into it. -
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at mana-
ging it, would make it go almost as swift and fast
again as I could; so when he was in I said to him,
“Well now, Friday, shall we go to your nation *
He looked very dull at my saying so, which it
seems, was because he thought, the boat too small
to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat
lay which I had made, but which I could not get
into the water; he said that was big enough; but
then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain
two or three and twenty years there, the sun had
split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry “much enough vittle, drink, bread:”
that was his way of talking.
CHAP. IV.
I determine to go over to the Continent—Friday and
I construct a boat equal to carry twenty men—His
derterity in managing her—Friday brings intelli-
gence of three Canoes of Savages on Shore—Resolve
to go down upon them–Friday and I fire upon the
Wretches, and save the life of a poor Spaniard—
List of the killed and wounded—Discover a poor
Indian bound in one of the Canoes, who turns out
to be Friday's father. -
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big
as that, and he should go home in it. He answer-
ed not one word, but looked very grave and sad.
I asked him what was the matter with him He
asked me again thus, “Why you angry mad with
Friday what me done ** I asked him, what he
meant? I told him I was not angry with him at
12,
all: “No angry no angry!” says he, repeating
the words several times, “why send Friday home
away to my nation *—“Why,” said I, “Friday,
did you not say you wished you were there *—
“Yes yes,” says he, “wish be both there; no
wish Friday there, no master there.” In a word,
he would not think of going there without me. “I
go there, Friday !” said I; “ what should I do
there?” He turned very quick upon me at this;
“You do great deal much good,” says he; “ you
teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans; you
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life.”
—“ Alas, Friday,” said I, “ thou knowest not what
thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself.”—
“Yes, yes,” says he, “ you teechee me good, you
teechee them good.”—“No, no, Friday,” said I,
“you shall go without me; leave me here to live
by myself, as I did before.” He looked confused
again at that word, and running to one of the
hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up has-
tily, and gives it me. “What must I do with this?”
said I to him. “You take kill Friday,” says he.
“What must I kill you for " said I again. He
returns very quick, “What you send Friday away
for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away.” This
he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the ut-
most affection in him to me, and a firm resolution
in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I
would never send him away from me, if he was will-
ing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse
a settled affection to me, and that nothing should
part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my
doing them good; a thing which, as I had no no-
tion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or in-
tention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I
found a strong inclination to my attempting an es-
cape, as above, founded on the supposition gather-
ed from the former discourse; viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, with-
out any delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage : there
were trees enough in the island to have built a
little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but
even of good large vessels: but the main thing I
looked at, was to get one so near the water, that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the
mistake I committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found
he knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same co-
lour and smell. Friday was for burning the hol-
low or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a
boat: but I shewed him how rather to cut it out
with tools, which after I shewed him how to use, he
did very handily; and in about a month's hard la-
bour we finished it, and made it very handsome,
especially when, with our axes, which I shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside
into the true shape of a boat; after this, however,
it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along,
as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the
water; but when she was in, she would have car-
ried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity,
and how swift, my man Friday could manage her,
turn her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if
he would, and if we might, venture over in her?
“Yes,” he said, “he venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind.” However, I had a far-
ther design that he knew nothing of, and that was,
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an an-
chor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and which
there was a great plenty of in the island; and I set
Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him direc-
tions how to shape and order it: but as to the sail,
that was my particular care; I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had
had them now twenty-six years by me, and had
not been very careful to preserve them, not ima-
gining that I should ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed most of them were so; however, I found
two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with
these I went to work, and with a great deal of
pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be
sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-
cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England
a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot-
tom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usu-
ally our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage; because it was such a
one as I used in the boat in which I made my es-
cape from Barbary, as related in the first part of
my story. -
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I
finished them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we should
turn to windward; and, which was more than all,
I fixed a rudder to the stern of her, to steer with ;
and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as
I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to de
it, that at last I brought it to pass, though, consi-
dering the many dull contrivances I had for it that
failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as
making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle
the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder, and was the more amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by
the rudder, and how the sail gibed, and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonish-
ed and amazed: however, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could
make him understand very little of that: on the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars
were always to be seen by night, and the shore by
day, except in the rainy seasons; and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my captivity in this place; though the
three last years that I had this creature with me,
ought rather to be left out of the account, my ha-
5
bitation being quite of another kind than in all the
rest of my time. I kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thankfulness to God for
his mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of
acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now,
having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of
being effectually and speedily delivered; for I had
an invincible impression upon my thoughts, that
my delvierance was at hand, and that I should not
be another year in this place. However, I went
on with my husbandry, digging, planting, and fen-
cing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing, as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon
me, when I kept more within doors than at other
times; so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as
we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as
I said in the beginning, Ilanded my rafts from the
ship; and hauling her up to the shore, at high-wa-
ter mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
just big enough for her to float in; and then, when
the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay
dry, as to the tide, from the sea; and to keep the
rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees so
thick, that she was as well thatched as a house;
and thus we waited for the months of November
WOL. II. F
and December, in which I designed to make my
adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of pro-
vision, being the store for the voyage; and intend-
cd, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the
dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morning upon something of this kind, when I called
to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see
if he could find a turtle or tortoise; a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been
long gone, when he came running back, and flew
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt
not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and
before I had time to speak to him, he cried out to
me, “O master | O master O sorrow ! O bad ---
“What's the matter, Friday !” said I. “O yon-
82 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
two, three!” By this way of speaking, I concluded
there were six; but on inquiry I found there were
but three. “Well, Friday,” said I, “ do not be
frighted;” so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow most terribly scared;
for nothing ran in his head but that they were
come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces,
11
and eat him; the poor fellow trembled so, that I
scarce knew what to do with him; I comforted him
as well as I could, and told him, I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well
as him. “But,” said I, “Friday, we must resolve
to fight them: can you fight, Friday "-" Me
shoot,” says he, “but there come many great num-
ber.”—“No, matter for that,” said I again; “ our
guns will fright them that we do not kill.” So I
asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as
Ibade him He said, “Me die, when you bid die,
master;” so I went and fetched a good dram of rum,
and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he
had drank it, Imade him take the two fowling-pie-
ces which we always carried, and load them with.
large swan-shot as big as small pistol-bullets; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs
and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I
loaded with a brace of bullets each: I hung my
great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the
hill, to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bo-
dies; a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more
than, as I had observed, was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea: this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman er-
rand these wretches came about, so filled me with
indignation, that I came down again to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go down to them, and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by
me. He was now gotten over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had
given him, he was very cheerful; and told me, as
before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the
arms, which I had charged, as before, between us:
I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and
three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pis-
tol, and the other three, myself; and in this posture
we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in
my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more
powder and bullet; and as to others, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, shoot, or
do any thing till I bid him; and in the mean time,
not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a
*
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to
get over the creek as to get into the wood; so that
I might come within shot of them before I could
be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolution;
I do not mean, that I entertained any fear of their
number; for as they were naked, unarmed wretches,
it is certain I was superior to them; nay, though I
had been alone: but it occurred to my thoughts,
what call, what occasion, much less what necessity,
I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack
people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong, who, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous customs were their own disaster, being
in them a token indeed of God's having left them,
with the other nations of that part of the world, to
such stupidity and to such inhuman courses; but
did not call me to take upon me to be a judge
of their actions, much less an executioner of his jus-
tice; that whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause into his own hands, and by national ven-
geance punish them for national crimes; but that
in the mean time, it was none of my business; that
it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemy, and in a state of war with
those very particular people, and it was lawful for
him to attack them; but I could not say the same
with respect to me. These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that
I resolved I would only go place myself near them,
that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that
I would act then as God should direct; but that
unless something offered that was more a call to
me than yet I knew of, I would not middle with
them. -
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday following
close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them;
only that one corner of the wood lay between me
and them: here I called softly to Friday, and shew- .
ing him a great tree, which was just at the corner
of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring
me word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing : he did so, and came immediately back
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there; that they were all about the fire, eating the
flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, whom he
said they would kill next, and which fired the very
soul within me. He told me, it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had
told me of, who came to their country in the boat.
I was filled with horror at the very naming the
white-bearded man, and, going to the tree, I saw
plainly by my glass, a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet
tied with flags, or things like rushes; and that he
was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket be-
yond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the
place where I was, which, by going a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and
that then I should be within half-shot of them; so
I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enra-
ged to the highest degree; and going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree, and
then I came to a little rising-ground, which gave
me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen
of the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground all
close huddled together, and had just sent the other
two to butcher the poor christian, and bring him,
perhaps limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday; “Now, Friday,” said I, “do as
I bid thee.” Friday said he would. “ Then, Fri-
day,” said I, “do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing.” So I set down one of the muskets and
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the like by his; and with the other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like.
Then asking him if he was ready, he said “Yes.”
—“Then fire at them,” said I; and the same mo-
ment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that
on the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed
one, and wounded two. They were, you may be
sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them,
who were not hurt, jumped up upon their feet im-
mediately, but did not know which way to run, or
which way to look; for they knew not from whence
their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe
what I did; so as soon as the first shot was made,
I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like; he sees me cock and
present; he did the same again: “Are you ready,
Friday,”? said I. “Yes,” says he. “Let fly then,”
said I, “ in the name of God;” and with that I
fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did
Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with
what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
we found only two drop; but so many were wound-
ed, that they ran about yelling and screaming like
mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded
side that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my side, I killed one, and wounded
two.
Wol. II. Page 88.

f : . . . ; : * * * * -- - - -
. . . . . . . . . . RY
* . . ..., L., & OX AN D
: ' ' . . . . N F CU ºn UATION º
—
most of them; whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
“Now, Friday,” said I, laying down the dis-
charged pieces and taking up the musket, which
was yet loaden, “follow me,” said I; which he
did, with a deal of courage; upon which I rushed
out of the wood, and shewed myself, and Friday
close at my foot: as soon as I perceived they saw
me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which
by the way was not very fast, being loaded with
arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor vic-
tim. who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or
shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea; the two butchers who were just going to work
with him, had left him, at the surprise of our first
fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side,
and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way: I turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he
understood me, immediately, and running about
forty yards to be near them, he shot at them, and
I thought he had killed them all; for I saw them
all fall on an heap into the boat; though I saw two
of them up again quickly : however, he killed two
of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay
down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been
dead. -
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor
victim; and loosing his hands and feet I lifted him
up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what
he was 2 he answered in Latin, Christianus; but was
so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand, or
speak; I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave
it him, making signs that he should drink, which
he did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate;
then I asked him what countryman he was 2 and he
said Espagnole; and, being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make,
how much he was in my debt for his deliverance.
“Seignior,” said I, with as much Spanish as I could
make up, “we will talk afterwards, but we must
fight now : if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you :” he took them
very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in
his hands, but as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had
cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amaze-
ment and fear, and had no more power to attempt their
own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot in the boat; for as three of them fell with the
hurt they received, so the other two fell with the
fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which
lay there, that had been discharged, which he did
with great swiftness; and then giving him my mus-
ket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted. While
I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have
killed him before, if I had not prevented it: the
Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could
be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian
a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on
his head; but the savage, being a stout lusty fellow,
closing in with him, had thrown him dewn (being
faint), and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quit-
ting his sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot
the savage through the body, and killed him upon
the spot, before I, who was running to help, could
come near him.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three,
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with ; and
the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him
one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but
as he was not able to run, they both got from him
into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and kil-
led one of them; but the other was too nimble for
him; and though he was wounded, yet he plunged
into the sea, and swam with all his might off to
those who were left in the canoe; which three in the
canoe, with one wounded, who we know not whether
he died or know, were all that escaped our hands
of one-and-twenty. The account of the rest is as
follows:
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of
them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not
dead. -
*
21 in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or
three shot at them, I did not find that he hit any of
them: Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was
very anxious about their escape; least, carrying the
news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes,
and devour us by mere multitudes; so I consented
to pursue them by sea; and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand
and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter,
and almost dead with fear, not knowing what
the matter was; for he had not been able to look up
over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck
and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had
really little life in him.
Iimmediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems still, that he was
only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling
out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, dan-
ced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a
good while before I could make him speak to me,
or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved
me, to see what exstacy and filial affection had
worked in this poor savage, at the sight of his fa-
ther, and of his being delivered from death; nor in-
deed can I describe half the extravagancies of his
affection after this; for he went into the boat and
out of the boat a great many times: when he went
in to him, he would sit down by him, open his
breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom,
half an hour together to nourish it: then he took his
arms and ancles, which were numbed and stiff with
the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I perceiving what the case was, gave
him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the ca-
roe with the other savages, who were now gotten
almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that
we did not; for it blew so hard within two hours
after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live, or that they ever reached to their own
coast.
But to return to Friday: he was so busy about
his father, that I could not find in my heart to take
him off for some time; but after I thought he could
leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his
father any bread He shook his head, and said,
“None : ugly dog eat all up self.” So I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but
he would not taste it, but carried it to his father:
I had in my pocket also two or three bunches of
my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these
raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and
run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran
at such a rate (for he was the swiftest fellow of his
feet that ever I saw)—I say he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant;
and though I called and hallooed too after him, it
was all one; away he went, and in a quarter of an
hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast
as he went ; and as he came nearer, I found his
pace was slacker, because he had something in his
hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water; and that he had got two more
cakes, or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father: however,
as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it:
this water revived his father more than all the rum
or spirits I had given him; for he was just fainting
with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him, to know
if there was any water left? he said “Yes;” and
Ibade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in
as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of
the cakes that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too,
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing him-
self upon a green place, under the shade of a tree,
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very
much swelled with the rude bandage he had been
tied with: when I saw that upon Friday's coming
to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and
took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him,
and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked up in
my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thank-
5
fulness that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted him-
self in the fight, that he could not stand upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ancles were so swelled and so
painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turned his head about, to see if his father was
in the same place and posture as he left him sit-
ting; and at last he found he was not to be seen;
at which he started up, and, without speaking a
word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he
went: but when he came, he only found he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs: so Friday came
back to me presently, and I then spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him: but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the
Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the in-
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him
close to his father, and presently stepping out again,
VO L. II. G
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the
shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too; so he brought them both
safe into our creek; and leaving them in the boat,
runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, Ispoke to him, and asked him whither he went 2
He told me, “Go fetch more boat;” so away he
went, like the wind; for sure never man or horse
ran iike him, and he had the other canoe in the
creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday
knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I car-
ried them up both together upon it between us;
but when we got them to the outside of our wall or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before;
for it was impossible to get them over; and I was
resolved not to break it down : so I set to work
again; and Friday and I, in about two hours time,
made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails,
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the
space without our outward fence, and between that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted:
and here we made two beds of such things as I
had; viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets laid up-
on it to lie on, and another to cover them on each
bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought my-
self very rich in subjects; and it was a merry re-
flection which I frequently made, how like a king
I looked: first of all, the whole country was my
own mere property; so that I had an undoubted
right of dominion: 2dly, My people were perfect-
ly subjected : I was absolute lord and lawgiver;
they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to
lay down their lives, if there had been occasion for
it, for me: it was remarkable too, I had but three
subjects, and they were of three different religions.
My man Friday was a Protestant, his father a Pagan
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist:
however, I allowed liberty of conscience through-
out my dominions: but this by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to
rest them upon, I began to think of making some
provision for them; and the first thing I did, I or-
dered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed:
then I cut off the hind quarter, and, chopping it in-
to small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
758803 A
you, of flesh and broth; having put some barley
and rice also into the broth; and as I cooked it
without doors (for I made no fire within my inner
wall), so I carried it all into the new tent; and ha-
ving set a table there for them, I sat down and ate
my dinner also with them; and, as well as I could,
cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the
language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead
bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun,
and would presently be offensive; and I also-or-
dered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar-
barous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and
which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I
could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all
which he punctually performed, and defaced the
very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it
was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation
with my two new subjects; and first I set Friday
to inquire of his father, what he thought of the
escape of the savages in that canoe and whither
he might expect a return of them with a power
too great for us to resist? His first opinion was,
that the savages in the boat never could live out
the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be
devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were
cast away; but as to what they would do if they
came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it
was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully fright-
ed with the manner of being attacked, the noise,
and the fire, that he believed they would tell their
people they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, and not by the hand of man; and that the
two which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were two
heavenly spirits or furies come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said,
he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in
their language to one another; for it was impossi-
ble for them to conceive that a man should dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, with-
out lifting up the hand, as was done now. And
this old savage was in the right; for as I un-
derstood since by other hands, the savages of that
part never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards. They were so terrified with the accounts
given by these four men (for it seems they did
escape the sea), that they believed, whoever went
to that enchanted island, would be destroyed with
fire from the gods. w
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was un-
der continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, I and all my army;
for as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open
field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the fear of their coming wore off; and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the
main into consideration, being likewise assured by
Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation on his account, if I would go.
CHAP. V.
I learn from the Spaniard that there were Sirteen more
of his Countrymen among the Savages—The Spani-
ard and Friday's Father well Armed, sail on a
mission to the Continent—I Discover an English
ship lying at anchor off the Island–Her Boat comes
on shore with three Prisoners—The Crew straggle in-
to the Woods, their Boat being aground—Discover
myself to the Prisoners, who prove to be the Cap-
tain and Mate of the Vessel, and a Passenger—Se-
cure the Mutineers.
Bur my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
I understood, that there were sixteen more of his
countrymen and Portuguese, who having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived
there at peace indeed with the savages, but were
very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for
life: I asked him all the particulars of their voyage;
and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being direct-
ed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five
Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out
of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned when first the ship was lost; and that
these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards,
and arrived almost starved on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every
moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless; for that they had neither
powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having
spoiled all their powder, but a little which they
used at their first landing to provide themselves
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of
them there; and if they had formed no design of
making any escape He said, they had many con-
sultations about it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, or provisions of any kind,
their counsels always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him, how he thought they would receive
a proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done I told him with freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put
my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no
inherent virtue in the nature of man; nor did men
always square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advanta-
ges they expected: I told him, it would be very
hard, that I should be the instrument of their de-
liverance, and that they should afterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an English-
man was certain to be made a sacrifice, what neces-
sity, or what accident soever, brought him thither;
and that I had rather be delivered up to the sa-
vages, and be devoured alive, than fallinto the merci-
less claws of the priests, and be carried into the In-
quisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if
they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away
either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands
or Spanish coast northward: but that if in requital
they should, when I had put weapons into their
hands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and
make my case worse than it was before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable,
and that they were so sensible of it, that he belie-
ved they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliver.
ance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them
with the old man, and discourse with them about
7
it, and return again, and bring me their answer:
that he would make conditions with them upon their
solemn oath, that they would be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and
that they should swear upon the holy Sacraments
and Gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Chris-
tian country as I should agree to, and no other;
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such coun-
try as I intended; and that he would bring a
contract from them under their hands for that pur-
pose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he
lived, till I gave him order; and that he would take
my side to the last drop of blood, if there should
happen the least breach of faith among his country-
men.
He told me, they were all of them very civil
honest men, and they were under the greatest dis-
tress imaginable, having neither weapons or clothes,
nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of
the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to
their own country; and that he was sure, if I
would undertake their relief, they would live and
die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
relieve them if possible, and to send the old savage
and this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when
he had gotten all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had
so much prudence in it on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be
very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a
year. The case was this:
He had been with us now about a month; du-
ring which time I had let him see in what manner
I had provided, with the assistance of Providence,
for my support; and he saw evidently what stock
of corn and rice I had laid up; which, as it was
more than sufficient for myself, so it was not suffi-
cient, at least without good husbandry, for my fa-
mily, now it was increased to number four: but
much less would it be sufficient, if his countrymen,
who were, as he said, fourteen still alive, should
come over; and least of all would it be sufficient to
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a
voyage to any of the Christian colonies of Ameri-
ca. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable, to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare
seed to sow; and that we should wait another har-
vest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difficulty into another: “You know,” says he,
“ the children of Israel, though they rejoiced at
first at their being delivered out of Egypt, yet re-
belled even against God himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wilder-
ness.” -
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased
with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his
fidelity. So we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted; and in about a month's time, by the
end of which it was seed-time, we had gotten as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed
twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars
of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to
spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley
sufficient for our own food for the six months that
we had to expect our crop, that is to say, reckon-
ing from the time we set our seed aside for sowing;
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number
being sufficient to put us out of fear of the sava-
ges, if they had come, unless their number had
been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as here we had
our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was
impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it
out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out several
trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and
then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted
my thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct
their work: I shewed them with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks,
and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick: what prodigious labour
it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my
little flock of tame goats as much as I could; and
to this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard to
go out one day, and myself with Friday the next
day, for we took our turns: and by this means we
got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock: but above all,
the season for curing the grapes coming on, I cau-
sed such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in
the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we should
have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with
our bread, was a great part of our food, and very
good living too, I assure you; for it is an exceed-
ing nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order;
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in
the island, but, however, it was enough to answer
our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we
brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the
rice, which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had
been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready
for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victual-
ed our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of America. When we had
thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we
fell to work to make more wicker-work; viz. great
baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard
was very handy and dexterous at this part, and
often blamed me, that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need
of it. And now having a full supply of food for
all the guests expected, I gave the Spaniard leave
to go over to the main, to see what he could do
with those he left behind him there: I gave him a
strict charge in writing not to bring any man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of
himself and of the old savage, that he would no
way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind to send
for them, in order to their deliverance; but that
they would stand by and defend him against all
such attempts; and wherever they went, would be
entirely under, and subjected to his command; and
that this should be put in writing, and signed with
their hands: how we were to have this done, when
I knew they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was
a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the
old savage (the father of Friday), went away in
one of the canoes, which they might be said to
come in, or rather were brought in, when they came
as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on
it, and about eight charges of powder and ball,
charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent oc-
casions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first mea-
sures used by me in view of my deliverance for
now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suf-
ficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for their countrymen for about eight days time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go,
agreeing with them about a signal they should
hang out at their return, by which I should know
13
them again, when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day
that the moon was at the full; by my account in
the month of October; but as for the exact reckon-
ing of days, after I had once lost it, I could never
recover it again; nor had I kept even the number
of years so punctually, as to be sure that I was
right, though, as it proved when I afterwards exa-
mined my account, I found I had kept a true reck-
oning of years.
It was no less than eight days I waited for
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident in-
tervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been
heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running
in to me, and called aloud, “Master, master, they
are come, they are come.”
I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went
out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
my little grove, which (by the way) was by this
time grown to be a very thickwood; I say, regardless
of danger, I went without my arms, which was not
my custom to do; but I was surprised, when, turn-
ing my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and a half's distance, standing in
for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as
they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in. Also I observed presently, that
they did not come from that side which the shore
lay on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him
lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we did not know yet whether they
were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspec-
tive-glass, to see what I could make of them; and
having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the
top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of any thing, and to take my view the
plainer without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my
eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half's distance from me,
S. S. E. but not above a league and a half from the
shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one whom I had rea-
son to believe was manned by my own country-
men, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot
describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung
about me, I cannot tell from whence they came,
bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business
WOL. II. H
an English ship could have in that part of the
world; since it was not the way to or from any
part of the world where the English had any traf.
fic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive
them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had
better continue as I was, than fall into the hands
of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices
of danger which sometimes are given him when he
may think there is no possibility of its being real.
That such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few that have made any observation of things can
deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invi-
sible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot
doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to
warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they
are from some friendly agent, (whether supreme, or
inferior and subordinate, is not the question,) and
that they are given for our good :
The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been
made cautious by this secret admonition, come
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably,
and in a far worse condition than before, as you will
see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but
10
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at for the conve-
nience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they would have landed just, as I may say, at
my door, and would have soon beaten me out of
my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one
or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof three
of them I found were unarmed, and (as I thought)
bound; and when the first four or five of them were
jumped on shore, they took those three out of the
boat as prisoners: one of the three I could per-
ceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty,
affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extrava-
gance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be; Fri-
day called out to me in English, as well as he
could, “O master! you see English mans eat pri-
soners as well as savage mans.”—“Why,” said I,
“Friday, do you think they are going to eat them
then *-* Yes,” says Friday, “ they will eat
them. “No, no,” said I, “Friday; I am afraid
they will murder them indeed; but you may be
sure they will not eat them.”
All this while I had no thought of what the mat-
ter really was, but stood trembling with the horror
of the sight, expecting every moment when the
three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cut-
lass (as the seamen call it) or sword, to strike one
of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment, at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him; or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that I might have rescued the three men;
for I saw no fire-arms they had among them; but
it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of
the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed also, that
the three other men had liberty to go where they
pleased; but they sat down all three upon the
ground very pensive, and looked like men in de-
spair. -
This put me in mind of the first time when I
came on shore, and began to look about me; how
I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked
round me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and
how I lodged in the tree all night for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I
was to receive by the providential driving of the
ship nearer the land, by the storms and tides, by
which I have since been so long nourished and
supported; so these three poor desolate men knew
nothing how certain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how ef-
fectually and really they were in a condition of
safety, at the same time they thought themselves
lost, and their case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and
so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that
in the worst circumstances they have always some-
thing to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and
partly while they rambled about to see what kind
of place they were in, they had carelessly staid till
the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed consi-
derably away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I
found afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who
were straggling about, upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength
to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the
shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are,
perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled
about the country again; and I heard one of them
say aloud to another (calling them off from the
boat), “Why, let her alone, Jack, can’t ye she'll
float next tide.” By which I was fully confirmed
in the main inquiry, of what countrymen they
Were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once da-
ring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the top of the hill;
and very glad I was, to think how well it was for-
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours be-
fore the boat could be on float again, and by that
time it would be dark, and I might be more at li-
berty to see their motions, and to hear their dis-
course, if they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle,
as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had
at first: I ordered Friday also, whom I had made
an excellent marksman with his gun, to load him-
self with arms: I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure, in-
deed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-
skin coat on, with the great cap I mentioned, a
naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and a gun
upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have
made any attempt till it was dark; but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in
short they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, were all laid down. to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their
condition to get any sleep, were however set down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight
of any of the rest,
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immedi-
ately I marched in the figure above, my man Fri-
day at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a
spectre-like figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could,
and then, before any of them saw me, I called
aloud to them in Spanish, “What are ye, gentle-
men º’”
They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the un-
couth figure that I made: they made no answer at
all, but I thought I perceived them just going to
fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:
“Gentlemen,” said I, “do not be surprised at me;
perhaps you may have a friend near you, when you
did not expect it.” “ He must be sent directly
from Heaven then,” said one of them very gravely
to me, pulling off his hat at the same time, “for
our condition is past the help of man. “All help
is from Heaven, Sir,” said I: “but can you put
a stranger in the way how to help you? For you
seem to me to be in some great distress: I saw
you when you landed; and when you seemed to
make application to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.”
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, return-
ed, “Am I talking to God or man Is it a real man,
or an angel?”—“Be in no fear about that, Sir,”
said I: “if God had sent an angel to relieve you,
he would have come better clothed, and armed
after another manner than you see me in; pray
lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman,
and disposed to assist you; you see I have one ser-
vant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us
freely can we serve you? What is your case ?”
“Our case,” said he, “Sir, is too long to tell
you, while our murderers are so near; but in short,
Sir, I was commander of that ship; my men ha-
ving mutinied against me, they have been hardly
prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have
set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
two men with me, one my mate, the other a pas-
senger, where we expected to perish, believing -'.e
place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it.”
“Where are those brutes, your enemies?” said
I; “do you know where they are gone *—“There
they are, Sir,” said he, “pointing to a thicket of
trees; “my heart trembles for fear they have seen
us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
certainly murder us all.”
“Have they any fire-arms ?” said I: he answer-
ed, “They had only two pieces, and one which
they left in the boat.”—“ Well then,” said I,
“ leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it
is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we ra-
ther take them prisoners ?” He told me there were
two desperate villains among them, that it was
scarce safe to shew any mercy to; but if they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to
their duty: I asked him, which they were He
told me, he could not at that distance describe
them; but he would obey my orders in any thing
I would direct. “Well,” said I, “ let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve farther;” so they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
“Look you, Sir,” said I, “if I venture upon
your deliverance, are you willing to make two con-
ditions with me * He anticipated my proposals,
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if re-
covered, should be wholly directed and command-
ed by me in every thing; and if the ship was not
recovered, he would live and die with me in what
part of the world soever I would send him; and
the two other men said the same.
“Well,” said I, “my conditions are but two: 1.
That while you stay on this island with me, you
will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms into your hands, you will upon all occa-
sions give them up to me, and do no prejudice to
me or mine, upon this island, and in the mean time
to be governed by orders.
“2. That if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, pas-
sage-free.”
He gave me all the assurance that the invention
and faith of a man could devise, that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands; and
besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions as long as he lived.
“Well then,” said I, “ here are three muskets
for you, with powder and ball; tell me next what
you think is proper to be done.” He shewed all
the testimony of his gratitude that he was able;
but offered to be wholly guided by me: I told him,
I thought it was hard venturing any thing, but the
best method I could think of was, to fire upon them
at once, as they lay ; and if any were not killed at
the first volley, and offered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it; but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of
all the mutiny in the ship; and if they escaped,
we should be undone still; for they would go on
board, and bring the whole ship's company, and
destroy us all. “Well then,” said I, “ necessity
legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to
save our lives.” However, seeing him still cau-
tious of shedding blood, I told him, they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them
on their feet. I asked him, if either of them were
the men who he had said were the heads of the
mutiny He said, No. “Well then,” said I, “ you
may let them escape, and Providence seems to
have wakened them on purpose to save them-
selves.” “Now,” said I, “if the rest escape you,
it is your fault.”
Animated with this, he took the musket I had
given him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, with each man a piece
in his hand: the two men, who were with him, go-
ing first, made some noise, at which one of the sea-
men, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late
then; for the moment he cried out, they fired, I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving
his own piece: they had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded;
but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other; but the cap-
tain stepping to him, told him it was too late to
cry for help; he should call upon God to forgive
his villany; and with that word knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more: there were three more in the company, and
one of them was also slightly wounded. By this
time I was come; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare
their lives, if they would give him any assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that
could be desired, and he was willing to believe them,
and spare their lives, which I was not against; only
I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her,
and bring away the oars and sail, which they did;
and by and by, three straggling men, that were
(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back
upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing their cap-
tain who before was their prisoner, now their con-
queror, they submitted to be bound also; and so
our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should
inquire into one another's circumstances: I began
first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu-
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnish-
ed with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as
my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affect-
ed him deeply; but when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to have been pre-
served there on purpose to save his life, the tears
ran down his face, and he could not speak a word
Inore.
After this communication was at an end, I car-
ried him and his two men into my apartments,
leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the
top of the house; where I refreshed them with
such provisions as I had, and shewed them all the
contrivances I had made during my long, long in-
habiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was per-
fectly amazing; but, above all, the captain admi-
red my fortification; and how perfectly I had con-
cealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which,
having now been planted near twenty years, and
the trees growing much faster than in England, was
become a little wood, and so thick, that it was un-
passable in any part of it, but at that one side where
I had reserved my little winding passage into it:
this I told him was my castle, and my residence;
but that I had a seat in the country, as most prin-
ces have, whether I could retreat upon occasion,
and I would shew him that too another time; but
at present our business was to consider how to re-
cover the ship. He agreed with me as to that;
but told me he was perfectly at a loss what mea-
sure to take: for that there were still six-and-twenty
hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives
to the law, would be hardened in it now by despe-
ration; and would carry it on, knowing that, if
they were reduced, they should be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any
of the English colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a num-
ber as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said,
and found it was a very rational conclusion, and
that therefore something was to be resolved on
very speedily, as well to draw the men on board
into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent
their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon
this, it presently occurred to me, that in a little
while, the ship's crew wondering what was become
of their comrades, and of the boat, would certain-
ly come on shore in their other boat to see for
them; and that then perhaps they might come
armed, and be too strong for us: this he allowed
was rational. -
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to
do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach,
so that they might not carry her off; and taking
everything out of her, leaving her so far useless as
not to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on
board, took the arms which were left on board out
of her, and whatever else we found there, which
was a bottle of brandy and another of rum, a few
biscuit cakes, an horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvas; the sugar was five
or six pounds; all which was very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were car-
ried before as above,) we knocked a great hole in
her bottom, that if they had come strong enough
to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
could be capable to recover the ship; but my view
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did
not much question to make her fit again to carry
us away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our
friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them
still in my thoughts.
CHAP. VI.
The Ship makes Signals for her Boat—On receiving
no answer, she sends another Boat on Shore—Me-
thods by which we secure this Boat's Crew, and re-
cover the Ship.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and
had first by main strength heaved the boat up up-
on the beach, so high that the tide would not float
her off at high water mark; and, besides, had
broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should
do; we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her
make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for the
boat to come on board; but no boat stirred ; and
they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we
saw them (by the help of our glasses) hoist another
boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found,
WOL. II. I
as they approached, that there were no less than
ten men in her, and that they had fire arms with
them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the
shore, we had a full view of them as they came,
and a plain sight of the men, even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east
of the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to
come to the same place where the other had land-
ed, and where the boat lay. -
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters
of all the men in the boat; of whom he said that
there were three very honest fellows, who he was
sure were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being
overpowered and frighted: but that for the boat-
swain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among
them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as
any of the ship's crew; and were, no doubt, made
desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
prehensive he was, that they would be too power-
ful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our
circumstances were past the operations of fear:
that seeing almost every condition that could be
was better than that we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether
death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance: I
asked him, what he thought of the circumstances
of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for “And where, Sir,” said I,
“ is your belief of my being preserved here on
purpose to save your life, which elevated you a
little while ago? For my part,” said I, “ there
seems to be one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it.”—“What's that, ” says he. “Why,” said I,
“’tis that as you say, there are three or four honest
fellows among them, which should be spared; had
they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I
should have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands: for, de-
pend upon it, every man of them that comes
ashore, are our own, and shall die or live as they
behave to us.”
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheer-
ful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged
him; so we set vigorously to our business. We
had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming
from the ship, considered of separating our pri-
soners, and had indeed secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less as-
sured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of
the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out
of the woods, if they could have delivered them-
selves: here they left them bound, but gave them
provisions, and promised them, if they continued
there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had
such good usage as to have provisions and a light
left them; for Friday gave them candles (such as
we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of
them were kept pinioned indeed, because the cap-
tain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service upon their captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly enga-
ging to live and die with us; so, with them and the
three honest men, we were seven men well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were a-coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said, there were three
or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their
other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach,
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after
them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid
they would rather have left the boat at an anchor,
some distance from the shore, with some hands in
her to guard her; and so we should not be able to
seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran
all to the other boat; and it was easy to see they
were under a great surprise to find her stripped as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
her bottom.
After they had mused a while upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they could make their com-
panions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their
small arms, which indeed we heard, and the echoes
made the woods ring; but it was all one : those in
the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those
in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this,
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go
all on board again to their ship, and let them know
there, that the men were all murdered, and the
long boat staved; accordingly, they immediately
launched the boat again, and got all of them o
board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again and set sail, giving their comrades
- up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship which
he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat,
but we perceived them all coming on shore again;
but with this new measure in their conduct, which
it seems they consulted together upon; viz. to
leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on
shore, and go up into the country to look for their
fellows. w
This was a great disappointment to us; for now
we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us
if we let the boat escape, because they would then
row away to the ship; and then the rest of them
would be sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our re-
covering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained
in the boat put her off to a good distance from the
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so
that it was impossible for us to come at them in
the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill, under
which my habitation lay; and we could see them
plainly, though they could not perceive us ; we
13
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them;
or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the
hill, where they could see a great way in the valley
and woods, which lay towards the north-east part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from
one another, they sat down together under a tree,
to consider of it: had they thought fit to have
gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were
too full of apprehensions of danger, to venture to
go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me
upon this consultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps
they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to
make their fellows hear, and that we should all
sally upon them, just at the juncture when their
pieces were all discharged, and they would cer-
tainly yield, and we should have them without
bloodshed. I liked the proposal, provided it was
done while we were near enough to come up to
them, before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still
a long time very irresolute what course to take; at
length I told them, there would be nothing to be
done in my opinion till night; and then, if they
did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find
a way to get between them and the shore, and so
might use some stratagem with them in the boat,
to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient
for their removing, and were very uneasy; when,
after long consultations, we saw them start all up,
and march down toward the sea: it seems, they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over
for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the
shore, I imagined it to be as it really was; that
they had given over their search, and were for
going back again; and the captain, as soon as I
told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the ap-
prehensions of it; but I presently thought of a stra-
tagem to fetch them back again, and which an-
swered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go
over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued; and as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at about half a mile's distance, Ibade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found
the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return
it again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a
round, always answering when the others hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island, and among the
woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to
me, by such ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Fri-
day and the mate hallooed, and they presently
heard them, and answering, run along the shore
westward, towards the voice they heard, when they
were presently stopped by the creek, where the
water being up, they could not get over, and call-
ed for the boat to come up, and set them over, as
indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way into the
creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land,
they took one of the three men out of her to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, ha-
ving fastened her to the stump of a little tree on
the shore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their bu-
siness, I took the rest with me, and, crossing the
creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware, one of them lying on
shore, and the other being in the boat; the fellow
on shore was between sleeping and waking, and
going to start up, the captain, who was foremost,
ran in upon him and knocked him down, and then
called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon
him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this
was, it seems, one of the three who were not so
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and
therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's
mate so well managed their business with the rest,
that they drew them, by hallooing and answering,
from one hill to another, and from one wood to an-
other, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and
indeed they were heartily tired themselves also by
the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to
me before they came back to their boat; and we
could hear the foremost of them, long before they
came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along; and could also hear them answer, and com-
plain how lame and tired they were, and not being
able to come any faster, which was very welcome
news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is
impossible to express their confusion, when they
found the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide
ebbed out, and their two men gone: we could hear
them call to one another in a most lamentable
manner, telling one another they were gotten into
an enchanted island; that either there were inha-
bitants in it, and they should all be murdered; or
else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two com-
rades by their names a great many times, but no
answer: after some time, we could see them, by
the little light there was, run about wringing their
hands, like men in despair; and that sometimes
they would go and sit down in the boat to rest
themselves, then come ashore, and walk about
again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me given them
leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but
I was willing to take them at some advantage, so
to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could;
and especially I was unwilling to hazard the kill-
ing any of our men, knowing the other men were
very well armed : I resolved to wait to see if they
did not separate; and therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer; and ordered
Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands
and feet as close to the ground as they could, that
they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, till the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most de-
jected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them with two more of the crew; the cap-
tain was so eager, at having the principal rogue so
much in his power, that he could hardly have pa-
tience to let him come so near as to be sure of him;
for they only heard his tongue before: but when
they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting
up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men;
viz. myself generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-
general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom he had trusted with
arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the
man they had left in the boat, who was now one of
us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring
them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
them to terms; which fell out just as we desired:
for indeed it was easy to think, as their condition
then was, they would be very willing to capitulate;
so he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
“Tom Smith, Tom Smith.” Tom Smith answered
immediately, “Who's that? Robinson " For it
seems he knew his voice. The other answered,
“Ay, ay; for God’s sake, Tom Smith, throw down
your arms, and yield, or you are all dead men this
moment.”
“Who must we yield to ? where are they "
says Smith again. “Here they are,” says he ,
“here is our captain and fifty men with him, have
been hunting you this two hours; the boatswain is
killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner;
and if you do not yield, you are all lost.”
“Will they give us quarter, then º’ says Tom
Smith, “ and we will yield.” “I’ll go and ask, if
you promise to yield,” says Robinson. So he
asked the captain, and the captain himself then
calls out, “You, Smith, you know my voice, if you
lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins.”
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, “ For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter: what have I done?
they have all been as bad as I;” (which by the
way was not true, either; for it seems this Will
Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the cap-
tain when they first mutinied, and, used him bar-
barously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language): however, the captain told him he
must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to
the governor's mercy, by which he meant me; for
they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had
parleyed with them, and two more, who bound
them all; and then my great army of fifty men,
which, particularly with those three, were in all but
eight, came up and seized upon them all, and upon
their boat, only that I kept myself and one more
out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to
think of seizing the ship; and as for the captain,
now he had leisure to parley with them, he expos-
tulated with them upon the villany of their prac-
tices with him, and at length, upon the farther
wickedness of their design; and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged
hard for their lives: as for that, he told them they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
the island; that they thought they had set him on
shore in a barren uninhabited island; but it had
pleased God so to direct them, that the island was
inhabited, and that the governor was an English-
man; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,
whom he was commanded by the governor to advise
to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged
in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees
to beg the captain to intercede with the governor
for his life; and all the rest begged of him for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to Eng-
land.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our de-
liverance was come, and that it would be a most
easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in
getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the
dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me: when I called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to
the captain, “Captain, the commander calls for
you;” and presently the captain replied, “Tell his
excellency I am just a-coming.” This more per-
fectly amused them; and they all believed that the
commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked won-
derfully well, and resolved to put it in execution
the next morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay: this was
committed to Friday, and the two men who came
on shore with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison;
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men
in their condition.
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it,
of which I have given a full description; and as it
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough, considering they were upon their
behaviour. 22.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word,
to try them, and tell me, whether he thought they
might be trusted or no, to go on board, and sur-
prise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to;
and that though the governor had given them quar-
ter for their lives, as to the present action, yet that
if they were sent to England, they would all be
hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they
would join in such an attempt as to recover the
ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a propo-
sal would be accepted by men in their condition:
they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own
him for a father to them as long as they lived.
“Well,” says the captain, “I must go and tell
the governor what you say, and see what I can do
to bring him to consent to it.” So he brought me
an account of the temper he found them in; and
that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told
him he should go back again, and choose out five
of them, and tell them, that they should see that they
did not want men; but he would take out those five
WOL. II. K
to be his assistants, and that the governor would
keep the other two, and the three that were sent
prisoners to the castle, (my cave,) as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that, if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that
the governor was in earnest; however, they had
no way left them but to accept it; and it was now
the business of the prisoners, as much as of the
captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the ex-
pedition: 1. The captain, his mate, and passenger.
2. Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their characters from the captain,
I had given their liberty, and trusted them with
arms. 3. The other two whom I kept till now in
my bower pinioned; but, upon the captain's motion,
had now released. 4. These five released at last;
so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with these hands on board the ship : for, as for me,
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and
it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep
31
them fast; but Friday went twice a day to them,
to supply them with necessaries; and I made the
other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
where Friday was to take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it
was with the captain, who told them, I was the
person the governor had ordered to look after
them, and that it was the governor's pleasure that
they should not stir any where but by my direc-
tion; that if they did, they should be fetched into
the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never
suffered them to see me as governor, so I now ap-
peared as another person, and spoke of the gover-
nor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him,
but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one,
and man them : he made his passenger captain of
one, with four other men; and himself, and his
mate, and five more, went in the other: and they
contrived their business very well; for they came
up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson
hail them, and tell them he had brought off the
men and the boat, but that it was a long time be-
fore they had found them, and the like; holding
them in a chat, till they came to the ship's side;
when the captain and the mate, entering first with
-->
their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the but end of their mus-
kets; being very faithfully seconded by their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches
to keep them down who were below; when the
other boat, and their men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
skuttle which went down into the cook-room,
making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to
break into the round-house, where the new rebel
captain lay, and, having taken the alarm, was got-
ten up, and with two men and a boy had gotten
fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate with
a crow split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, in-
to the round-house, wounded as he was, and with
his pistol shot the new captain through the head,
the bullets entering at his mouth, and came out
again behind one of his ears; so that he never
spoke a word; upon which the rest yielded, and
the ship was taken effectually without any more
lives being lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the cap-
tain ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the
signal agreed upon with me, to give me notice of
his success; which you may be sure I was very
glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till near two of the clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something sur-
prised with the noise of a gun; and presently start-
ing up, I heard a man call me by the name of go-
vernor, governor' and presently I knew the cap-
tain's voice; when climbing up to the top of the
hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms: “My dear friend and
deliverer,” says he, “there's your ship, for she is
all yours, and so are we, and all that belong to
her.” I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode within a little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her; and the weather being
fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the
mouth of a little creek; and the tide being up, the
captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door.
. I was, at first, ready to sink down with the sur-
prise: for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly
put into my hands, all things easy, and a large
ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased
to go. At first, for some time, I was notable to an-
swer one word; but as he had taken me in his arms,
I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pull-
ed a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram
of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for
me: after I drank it, I sat down upon the ground,
and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a
good while before I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an
ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was;
and he said a thousand kind tender things to me,
to compose and bring me to myself: but such was
the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my
spirits into confusion; at last it broke into tears,
and in a little while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my
deliverer; and we rejoiced together: I told him, I
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to de-
liver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to
be a chain of wonders; that such things as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of
Providence governing the world, and an evidence,
that the eyes of an infinite Power could search into
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness
to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless
Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner pro-
vided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition, but from whom every deliver-
ance must always be acknowledged to proceed
When we had talked a while, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little refreshments, such
as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches who
had been so long his masters had not plundered
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat,
and bids his men bring the things ashore that were
for the governor; and indeed it was a present, as
if I had been one, not that I was to be carried
along with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still, and they were to go without
me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full
of excellent cordial waters; six large bottles of
Madeira wine, the bottles held two quarts apiece;
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good
pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pease, and about a hundred weight o
biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of
flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-
juice, and abundance of other things: but besides
these, and what was a thousand times more useful
to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of
shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little. In a word, he clothed me
from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was any thing in the world of that kind so
unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me
to wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his
good things were brought into my little apartment,
we began to consult what was to be done with the
prisoners we had; for it was worth considering
whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew
to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree;
and the captain said, he knew they were such
rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if he
did carry them away, it must be in irons, as male-
factors, to be delivered over to justice at the first
English colony he could come at; and I found that
the captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that, if he desired it, I
durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke of
to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island: “I should be very glad of
that,” says the captain, “ with all my heart.”
“Well,” said I, “ I will send for them, and talk
with them for you:” so I caused Friday and the
two hostages, for they were now discharged, their
comrades having performed their promise; I say,
I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the
five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came.
After some time, I came thither dressed in my
new habit, and now I was called governor again.
Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused
the men to be brought before me, and I told them,
I had had a full account of their villanous behaviour
to the captain, and how they had run away with
the ship, and were preparing to commit farther rob-
‘beries; but that Providence had ensnared them in
their own ways, and that they were fallen into the
pit which they had digged for others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship
had been seized, that she lay now in the road, and
they might see by and by, that their new captain
had received the reward of his villany; for that
they might see him hanging at the yard-arm : that
as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say,
why I should not execute them as pirates taken in
the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt
I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy: but I
told them I knew not what mercy to shew them;
for, as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England: and as for the captain,
he could not carry them to England, other than as
prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny, and run-
ning away with the ship; the consequence of which
they must needs know, would be the gallows; so
that I could not tell which was best for them, un-
less they had a mind to take their fate in the
island; if they desired that, I did not care, as I had
liberty to leave it: I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift
on shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said
they would much rather venture to stay there, than
to be carried to England to be hanged; so I left it
on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some dif-
ficulty of it, as if he durst not leave them there;
upon this I seemed to be a little angry with the
captain, and told him, that they were my prisoners,
not his; and that seeing I had offered them so
much favour, I would be as good as my word; and
that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I would.
set them at liberty as I found them; and if he did
not like that, he might take them again if he could
catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I
accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them re-
tire into the woods, to the place whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some am-
munition, and some directions how they should live
very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain, that I would stay that night
to prepare my things; and desired him to go on
board in the mean time, and keep all right in the
ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for
me: ordering him in the mean time to cause the
new captain who was killed, to be hanged at the
yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men
up to me to my apartment, and entered seriously
into discourse with them of their circumstances: I
told them, I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain carried them away, they would
certainly be hanged: I shewed them their captain
hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them
they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the
way of making it easy to them: accordingly I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; shewed them my fortifications, the
way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to
make them easy. I told them the story of the
sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected; for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. -
I left them my fire-arms; viz. five muskets,
three fowling-pieces, and three swords: I had
about a barrel of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the way I managed the
goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, to
make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own
story; and I told them, I would prevail.with the
captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder
more, and some garden-seed, which I told them I
would have been very glad of; also I gave them
the bag of pease which the captain had brought me
to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase
them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day
and went on board the ship; we prepared imme-
diately to sail, but did not weigh that night; the
next morning early, two of the five men came
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most
lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to
be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they
should be murdered; and begged the captain to
take them on board though he hanged them im-
mediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no
power without me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they
were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled; after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on
shore, the tide being up, with the things promised
to the men, to which the captain, at my interces-
sion, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for: I
also encouraged them, by telling them, that if it
lay in my way to send a vessel to take them in, I
would not forget them.
CHAP. VII.
I take leave of the Island, and, after a long Voyage,
arrive in England–Go down into Yorkshire, and
find the greaterpart of my Family dead—Resolve to
go to Lisbon for information respecting my Plan-
tation at the Brazils–Meet an old Friend there,
by whose means I become rich—Set out for Eng-
land over land—Much annoyed by Wolves on the
road.
WHEN I took leave of this island, I carried on
board for relics the great goat-skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also
I forgot not to take the money I formerly mention-
ed, which had lain by me so long useless that it .
was grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly
pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and
handled; and also the money I found in the wreck
of the Spanish ship. -
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of De-
cember, as I found by the ship's account, in the
year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and-
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days:
being delivered from the second captivity the same
day of the month that I first made my escape in
the barco-longo, from among the moors of Salee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the eleventh of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was a perfect
stranger to all the world, as if I had never been
known there: my benefactor, and faithful steward,
whom I had left in trust with my money, was alive,
but had had great misfortunes in the world, was
become a widow the second time, and very low in
the world: I made her easy as to what she owed
me, assuring her, I would give her no trouble;
but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would
indeed allow me to do but little for her: but I
assured her, I would never forget her former kind-
ness to me; nor did I forget her, when I had suffi-
cient to help her; as shall be observed in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two
of the children of one of my brothers: and as I
had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provision made for me; so that, in a word,
*
I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that
little money I had, would not do much for me
as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which
I did not expect; and this was, that the master of
the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by
the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
given a very handsome account to the owners, of
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them, and
some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon that
subject, and a present of almost two hundred
pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the
circumstances of my life, and how little way this
would go towards settling me in the world, I re-
solved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brazils, and what was become of my partner,
who, I had reason to suppose, had some years now
given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where
I arrived in April following; my man Friday ac-
companying me very honestly in all these ram-
blings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea,
off the shore of Africa: he was now grown old,
and had left off the sea, having put his son, who
was far from a young man, into his ship; and who
still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not
know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I
soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I
told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my
plantation and my partner : the old man told me,
he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came
away, my partner was living; but the trustees,
whom I had joined with him, to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead; that, however, he be-
lieved that I would have a very good account of
the improvement of the plantation; for that, upon
the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of
the produce of my part of the plantation, to the
procurator fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case
I never came to claim it, one third to the king, and
two thirds to the monastery of St Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
VOL. II. L
_*
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the im-
provement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he as-
sured me, that the steward of the king's revenue
(from lands,) and the provedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along, that the
incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every
year a faithful account of the produce, of which
they received duly my moiety.
I asked him, if he knew to what height of im-
provement he had brought the plantation; and
whether he thought it might be worth looking af.
ter; or whether, on my going thither, I should
meet with no obstruction to my possessing my just
right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon
the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the
best of his remembrance, he had heard, that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems, grant-
ed away to some other monastery, or religious
house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a
year; that, as to my being restored to a quiet pos-
session of it, there was no question to be made of
that, my partner being alive to witness my title,
and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country. Also he told me, that the survivors
I 3
of my two trustees were very fair, honest people,
and very wealthy, and he believed I would not only
have their assistance for putting me in possession,
but would find a very considerable sum of money
in their hands for my account, being the produce
of the farm, while their fathers held the trust, and
before it was given up, as above, which, as he re-
membered, was about twelve years.
I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain, how
it came to pass, that the trustees should thus dis-
pose of my effects, when he knew that I had made
my will, and had made him, the Portuguese cap-
tain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that, as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as
executor, until some certain account should come
of my death; and that, besides, he was not willing
to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that it was
true, he had registered my will, and put in his
claim; and could he have given any account of my
being dead or alive, he would have acted by pro-
curation, and taken possession of the ingenio, (so
they called the sugar-house,) and had given his son,
who was now at the Brazils, order to do it.
“But,” says the old man, “I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so ac-
ceptable to you as the rest; and that is, that believ-
ing you were lost, and all the world believing so,
also, your partner and trustees did offer to account
to me in your name, for six or eight of the first
years of profit, which I received; but there being
at that time,” says he, “great disbursements for in-
creasing the works, building an ingenio, and buying
slaves, it did not amount to near so much as after-
wards it produced: however,” says the old man, “I
shall give you a true account of what I have re-
ceived in all, and how I have disposed of it.”
After a few days farther conference with this
ancient friend, he brought me an account of the six
first years income of my plantation, signed by my
partner, and the merchants trustees, being always
delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the
consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this
account, that every year the income considerably
increased: but, as above, the disbursement being
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old
man let me see, that he was debtor to me four
hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship, he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years
after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his
misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make
use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him
a share in a new ship; “ however, my old friend,”
says he, “ you shall not want a supply in your ne-
cessity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall
be fully satisfied.”
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives
me two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writings of his title to the ship which
his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was
a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both in my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and
kindness of the poor man, to be able to bear this;
and remembering what he had done for me, how he
had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sin-
cere a friend he was now to me, I could hardly re-
frain weeping at what he said to me; therefore first
I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him He told me he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was
my money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he
spoke. In short, I took one hundred of the moi-
dores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them; then I returned him the rest, and
told him, if ever I had possession of the plantation,
I would return the other to him also, as indeed I
afterwards did; and that, as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found
he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from
him.
When this was past, the old man began to ask
me if he should put me in a method to make my
claim to my plantation. I told him, I thought to
go over to it myself. He said, I might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways
enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to my use; and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away
to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public
register, with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that
I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said planta-
tion at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with
a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his ac-
quaintance at the place; and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the re-
turn.
Never anything was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pro-
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared
to be 1174 moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years
more while they kept the effects in their hands, be-
fore the government claimed the administration,
as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they call civil death; and the balance of
this, the value of the plantation increasing, amount-
ed to crusadoes, which made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustines ac-
count, who had received the profits for above four-
teen years; but not being able to account for what
was disposed to the hospital, very honestly decla-
red he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he
acknowledged to my account. As to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's, congra-
tulating me very affectionately upon my being
alive; giving me an account how the estate was
improved, and what it produced a year, with a par-
ticular of the number of squares, or acres, that it
contained; how planted, how many slaves there
were upon it; and, making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave
Marias to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was
alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own, and in the mean
time to give him orders to whom he should deliver
my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding
with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of
his family; and sent me as a present, seven fine
leopard skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa by some other ship which he had sent
thither; and who, it seems, had made a better
voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of ex-
cellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped
me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and
the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning. It is im-
possible to express the flutterings of my very heart,
when I looked over these letters, and especially
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which
brought my letters brought my goods; and the ef.
fects were safe in the Tagus before the letter came
to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew
sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me
a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and
something of the real cause of my illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which
I had relief, and grew well; but I verily believe, if
it had not been eased by the vent given in that
manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master all on a sudden, of above fifty
thousand pounds Sterling in money, and had an
estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of
above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an estate
of lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a con-
dition which I scarce knew how to understand, or
how to compose myself for the enjoyment of.
The first thing I did was to recompense my ori-
ginal benefactor, my good old captain, who had
been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to
me in the beginning, and honest to me at the end.
I shewed him all that was sent me; I told him,
that, next to the providence of Heaven, which dis-
poses all things, it was owing to him; and that it
now lay on me to reward him, which I would do
a hundred-fold. So I first returned to him the hun-
dred moidores I had received of him; then I sent
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general
release or discharge for the four hundred and se-
venty moidores, which he had acknowledged he
owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible;
after which I caused a procuration to be drawn, em-
powering him to be my receiver of the annual pro-
fits of my plantation, and appointing my partner
to account to him, and make the returns by the
usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause in the
end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a-year
to him during his life, out of the effects; and fifty
moidores a-year to his son after him, for his life.
And thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my
course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in-
deed, I had more care upon my head now than I
had in my silent state of life in the island, where I
wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great
charge upon me, and my business was how to se-
cure it: I had never a cave to hide my money in,
or a place where it might lie without lock or key,
till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body
would meddle with it. On the contrary, I knew
wot where to put it, or whom to trust with it; my
old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and
that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils
seemed to summon me thither; but now I could
not tell how to think of going thither till I had set-
tled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe
hands behind me. At first I thought of my old
friend the widow, who, I knew, was honest, and
would be just to me; but then she was in years,
and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go
back to England myself, and take my effects with
Ine.
I was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had been my first benefac-
tor, and she, while it was in her power, my faith-
ful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did,
I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his corre-
spondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to
go find her out, and carry her in money a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort
her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I
lived, have a farther supply. At the same time, I
sent my two sisters in the country, each of then
a hundred pounds, they being, though not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one having
been married, and left a widow; and the other ha-
wing a husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils,
and have settled myself there, for I was, as it were,
naturalized to the place; but I had some little
scruple in my mind about religion, which insensi-
bly drew me back, of which I shall say more pre-
sently. However, it was not religion that kept me
from going thither for the present; and as I had
made no scruple of being openly of the religion of
the country, all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; only that now and then having
of late thought more of it than formerly, when I
began to think of living and dying among them, I
began to regret my having professed myself a Pa-
pist, and thought it might not be the best religion
to die in. -
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me from going to the Brazils, but that
really I did not know with whom to leave my ef-
fects behind me; so I resolved at last to go to Eng-
land with them, where if I arrived, I concluded I
should make some acquaintance, or find some rela-
lations, that would be faithful to me; and accord-
ingly I prepared to go for England with all my
wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first (the Brazil fleet being just going away) resol-
ved to give answers suitable to the just and faith-
ful account of things I had from thence; and first
to the prior of St Augustine I wrote a letter full of
thanks for his just dealings, and the offer of the
eight hundred and seventy-two moidores, which
was undisposed of, which I desired might be given,
five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred
and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should di-
rect, desiring the good Padre's prayers for me, and
the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that so much justice
and honesty called for; as for sending them any
present, they were far above having any occasion
of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging
his industry in the improving the plantation, and
his integrity in increasing the stock of the works;
giving him instructions for his future government
of my part according to the powers I had left with
my old patron, to whom I desired him to send
whatever became due to me, till he should hear
from me more particularly; assuring him, that it
was my intention, not only to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life.
To this I added a very handsome present of some
Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for
such the captain's son informed me he had; with
two pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the best I
could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black bays, and
some Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo,
and turned all my effects into good bills of ex-
change, my next difficulty was, which way to go
to England. I had been accustomed enough to the
sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time; and though I could
give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped
my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind,
and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea,
and this might be one of the reasons. But let no
man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts
in cases of such moment. Two of the ships which
I had singled out to go in, I mean more particu-
larly singled out than any other, that is to say,
so as in one of them to put my things on board,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain;
I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz. one was
taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; so that, in either of those
vessels, I had been made miserable, and in which
most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing,
pressed me earnestly not to go to sea; but either
to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the
Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but
an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so
to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and
so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I
resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I
was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was
by much the pleasanter way; and to make it more
so, my old captain brought an English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing
to travel with me; after which, we picked up two
who were English, and merchants also, and two
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Pa-
ris only: so that we were in all six of us, and five
servants, the two merchants and the two Portuguese
contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, be-
sides my man Friday, who was too much a stran-
ger to be capable of supplying the place of a ser-
vant upon the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon: and our
company being all very well mounted and armed,
we made a little troop, whereof they did me the
honour to call me captain, as well because I was
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and
indeed was the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea
journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my
land journals. But some adventures that happened
to us in this tedious and difficult journey, I must
not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time
to see the court of Spain, and to see what was
worth observing; but it being the latter part of the
summer, we hastened away, and set out from Ma-
drid about the middle of October. But when we
came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at
several towns on the way, with an account that so
much snow was fallen on the French side of the
mountains, that several travellers were obliged to
come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted,
at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed; and to me, that had been always used
to a hot climate, and indeed to countries where we
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insuf-
ferable; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it was
surprising: to come but ten days before out of the
Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm,
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from
the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumb-
ing and perishing of our fingers and toes, was very
strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold
weather, which he had never seen or felt before in
his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampe-
luna, it continued snowing with so much violence,
and so long, that the people said, winter was come
before its time; and the roads, which were difficult
before, were now quite impassable: in a word, the
snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel;
and being not hard frozen, as is the case in north-
ern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We staid
no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when
(seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of
its being better, for it was the severest winter all
over Europe that had been known in many years)
I proposed that we should all go away to Fontara-
WOL. II. M
bia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which
was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came
in four French gentlemen, who having been stop-
ped on the French side of the passes, as we were
on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, tra-
versing the country near the head of Languedoc,
had brought them over the mountains by such
ways, that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; and where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to
bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would
undertake to carry us the same way, with no ha-
zard from the snow, provided we were armed suf-
ficiently to protect us from wild beasts: for he
said, upon these great snows, it was frequent for
some wolves to shew themselves at the foot of the
mountains, being made ravenous for want of food,
the ground being covered with snow. We told
him we were well enough prepared for such crea-
tures as they were, if he would ensure us from a
kind of two-legged wolves, which we were told we
were in most danger from, especially on the French
side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go: so we readily agreed
to follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen,
10
with their servants, some French, some Spanish,
who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were
obliged to come back again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November; and in-
deed I was surprised, when, instead of going for-
ward, he came directly back with us, on the same
road that we came from Madrid, above twenty
miles; when having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was plea-
sant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden,
turning to the left, he approached the mountains
another way; and though it is true, the hills and
the precipices looked dreadfully, yet he made so
many tours, such meanders, and led us by such
winding ways, we insensibly passed the height of
the mountains, without being much incumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he shewed us
the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though in-
deed they were at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we
found it snowed one whole day and a night, so fast,
that we could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we
should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that
we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our
guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in
sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after
them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he
had been devoured indeed, before we could have
helped him : one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attacked the man with that violence,
that he had not time, or not presence of mind
enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried
out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next
to me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the
matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the
man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, “O master!
O master!” But, like a bold fellow, rode directly
up to the man, and with his pistol shot the wolf
that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my
man Friday; for he, having been used to that kind
of creature in his country, had no fear upon him,
but went close up to him, and shot him as above;
whereas any of us would have fired at a farther
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf,
or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company,
when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard
on both sides the dismallest howlings of wolves,
and the noise redoubled by the echo of the moun-
tains, that it was to us as if there had been a pro-
digious multitude of them; and perhaps indeed
there was not such a few, as that we had no cause
of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the
other, that had fastened upon the horse, left him
immediately, and fled, having happily fastened
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him
much hurt : the man, indeed, was most hurt; for
the raging creature had bit him twice, once on the
arm, and the other time a little above his knee;
and he was just as it were tumbling down by the
disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and
shot the wolf. -
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Fri-
day’s pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up
as fast as the way (which was very difficult) would
give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us be-
fore, we saw plainly what had been the case, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide; though we
did not presently discern what kind of creature it
was he had killed.
CHAP. VIII.
Strange Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear—Terrible
engagement with a whole army of Wolves—Arrive
in England safely, and settle my Affairs there—I
Marry, and have a Family.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and
in such a surprising manner, as that which followed
between Friday and the bear, which gave us all
(though at first we were surprised and afraid for
him) the greatest diversion imaginable. As the
bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gal-
lop as the wolf does, which is swift and light; so he
has two particular qualities, which generally are
the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are
not his proper prey, I say not his proper prey, be-
cause though I can't say what excessive hunger
might do, which was now their case, the ground
being all covered with snow; yet as to men, he
does not usually attempt them, unless they first at-
tack him; on the contrary, if you meet him in the
woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't
meddle with you: yet then you must take care to
be very civil to him, and give him the road; for
he is a very nice gentleman, he won't go a step
out of the way for a prince; nay, if you are really
afraid, your best way is to look another way, and
keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and
stand still, and look stedfastly at him, he takes it
for an affront; and if you throw or toss any thing
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of
stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an af-
front, and sets all other business aside to pursue
his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in point
of honour, and this is his first quality; the next is,
that if he be once affronted, he will never leave
you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but fol-
low at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and
when we came up to him, he was helping him off
from his horse; for the man was both hurt and
frighted, and indeed the last more than the first;
when on a sudden, we espied the bear come out
of the wood, and a very monstrous one it was, the
biggest by far that ever I saw: we were all a little
surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fel-
low's countenance: “O ! O! O!” says Friday,
three times, pointing to him, “O master! you
give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him, me
makee you good laugh.”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased:
“You fool you,” said I, “he will eat you up.”—
“Eatee me up ! eatee me up !” says Friday twice
over again; “me eatee him up; me make you
good laugh; you all stay here, me shew you good
laugh.” So down he sits, and gets his boots off in
a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call
the flat shoes they wear,) and which he had in his
pocket, and gives my other servant his horse, and
with his gun away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty
near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand
him: “Hark ye, hark ye,” says Friday, “me
speakee wit you.” We followed at a distance; for
now being come down to the Gascoigne side of the
mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country was plain, and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone, and throws at him, and hit him just on the
head; but did him no more harm than if he had
thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's
end; for the rogue was so void of fear, that he did
it purely to make the bear follow him, and shew
us some laugh, as he called it. -
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him,
he turns about, and comes after him, taking de-
vilish long strides, and shuffling along at a strange
rate, so as he would put a horse to a middling
gallop. Away runs Friday, and takes his course,
as if he ran towards us for help; so we all resol-
ved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was
going about his own business another way; and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear
upon us, and then run away; and I called out,
“You dog,” said I, “is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature.” He hears me, and cries out,
“No shoot, no shoot, stand still, you get much
laugh;” and as the nimble creature ran two feet
for the beast's one, he turned on a sudden, on one
side of us, and seeing a great oak tree, fit for his
purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and doubling
his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his
gun down upon the ground, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. -
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed
at a distance. The first thing he did, he stopped
at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly,
as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my
life see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the
bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small of a large limb of the tree, and the
bear got about half way to him. As soon as the
bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree
was weaker, “Ha” says he to us, “ now you see
me teachee the bear dance;” so he falls a-jumping,
and shaking the bough, at which the bear began
to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind
him, to see how he should get back; then indeed
we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal: when he sees him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had sup-
posed the bear could speak English, “What, you
come no farther? Pray you come farther.” So he
left jumping and shaking the bough : and the bear,
just as if he understood what he said, did come a
little farther; then he fell a-jumping again, and
the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him
on the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and
we would shoot the bear; but he cried out ear-
nestly, “O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then;” he would have said by and by. How-
the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to
look behind him, to see how he should get back.
Wo L. II. Page£6.
.*

!
|

ever, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much,
and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laugh-
ing enough indeed, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do; for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found
the bear was too cunning for that too; for he
would not get out far enough to be thrown down,
but clings fast with his great broad claws and feet,
so that we could not imagine what would be the
end of it, and where the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for
seeing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that
he would not be persuaded to come any farther;
“Well, well,” said Friday “you no come farther,
me go, me go; you no come to me, me come to
you;” and upon this he goes out to the smallest
end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet; and away he ran to his gun,
takes it up, and stands still.
“Well,” said I to him, “Friday, what will you
do now * Why don't you shoot him *—“No
shoot,” says Friday, “no yet; me shoot now me
no kill; me stay, give you one more laugh; and
indeed so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and
coming backward till he got into the body of the
tree; then with the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws,
and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. At
this juncture, and just before he could set his hind
feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to him
clapped the muzle of his piece into his ear, and
shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased by our
looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud; “So
we kill bear in my country,” says Friday. “So you
kill them?” said I; “why, you have no guns.”
—“No,” says he, “no guns, but shoot great much
long arrow.”
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but
we were still in a wild place, and our guide very
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the
howling of wolves ran much in my head; and in-
deed except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I
never heard anything that filled me with so much
horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called
us off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we
should certainly have taken the skin of this mon-
strous creature off, which was worth saving; but
we had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened
us; so we left him, and went forward on our jour-
ney.
The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains;
and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards,
were come down into the forest and plain country,
pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done
a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they
surprised the country-people, killed a great many
of their sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which
our guide told us, if there were any more wolves
in the country, we should find them there; and
this was a small plain, surrounded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile or lane, which
we were to pass to get through the wood, and then
we should come to the village where we were to
lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sunset, when
we came into the plain. We met with nothing in
the first wood, except that in a little plain within
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over,
we saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed
one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view: they took no notice
of us, and were gone and out of sight in a few mo-
mentS.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a
ready posture; for he believed there were more
wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through
that wood, which was near half a league, and en-
tered the plain: as soon as we came into the plain,
we had occasion enough to look about us. The
first object we met with was a dead horse, that is to
say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and
at least a dozen of them at work; we could not say
eating of him, but picking of his bones rather; for
they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their
feast, neither did they take much notice of us; Fri-
day would have let fly at them, but I would not
suffer him by any means; for I found we were like
to have more business upon our hands than we
were aware of. We were not half gone over the
plain, but we began to hear the wolves howl in the
woods, on our left, in a frightful manner; and pre-
sently after we saw about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them
in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by ex-
perienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them; but found to draw ourselves in a
close line, was the only way; so we formed in a
moment; but, that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered, that only every other man
should fire; and that the others, who had not fired,
should stand ready to give them a second volley
immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us; and that then those who had fired at first,
should not pretend to load their fusils again, but
stand ready, with every one a pistol, for we were
all armed with a fusil and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six
vollies, half of us at a time; however, at present
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified, as
well with the noise as with the fire; four of them
being shot in the head, dropped; several others
were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could
see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering
that I had been told, that the fiercest creatures
were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all
our company to halloo as loud as we could, and I
found the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon
our shout, they began to retire, and turn about;
then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their
rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they
went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again,
and that we might lose no time, we kept going;
but we had but little more than loaded our fusils,
and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard
a terrible noise in the same wood on our left; only
that it was farther onward the same way we were
to go.
The night was coming on, and the night began
to be dusky, which made it the worse on our side;
but, the noise increasing, we could easily perceive
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish
creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves on our left, one behind us,
and one on our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them; however, as they did not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we
could make our horses go, which, the way being
very rough, was only a good large trot; and in this
manner we only came in view of the entrance of
the wood through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly sur-
prised, when, coming near the lane, or pass, we saw
a confused number of wolves standing just at the
entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood,
we heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle
on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seven-
teen wolves after him full speed: indeed the horse
11
had the heels of them; but as we supposed that he
could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but
they would get up with him at last; and no ques-
tion but they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we
found the carcase of another horse, and of two men
devoured by these ravenous creatures, and of one
the man was no doubt the same whom we heard
fire a gun, for there lay a gunjust by him fired off;
but as to the man, his head, and the upper part of
his body, were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them. It happened very much to our advan-
tage, that at the entrance into the wood, but a lit-
tle way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and
I suppose lay there for carriage: I drew my little
troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves
in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all
to alight, and, keeping that tree before us for a
breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never
was a more furious charge than the creatures made
WOL. II. N
upon us in this place; they came on us with a
growling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece
of timber (which, as I said, was our breastwork),
as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and
this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occa-
sioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which
was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to
fire as before, every man; and they took their aim
so sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves
at the first volley; but there was a necessity to
keep a continual firing, for they came on like de-
vils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired our second volley of fusils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone off; but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again; so we fired our vollies
of pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so
I called my servant, not my man Friday, for he
was better employed; for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he charged my fusil and his own
while we were engaged; but, as Isaid, I called my
other man; and giving him a horn of powder, I
bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber,
and let it be a large train; he did so, and had but
time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
10
and some were got up upon it; when I, snapping
an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on
fire; and those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire: we dispatched these in an instant,
and the rest were so frighted with the light, which
the night, for now it was very near dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout:
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied im-
mediately upon near twenty lame ones, which we
found struggling on the ground, and fell a-cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expec-
tation; for the crying and howling they made were
better understood by their fellows; so that they
fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore
of them; and had it been daylight, we had killed
many more. The field of battle being thus clear-
ed, we made forward again; for we had still near
a league to go. We heard the ravenous crea-
tures howl and yell in the woods as we went, seve-
ral times; and sometimes we fancied we saw some
of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were
not certain; so in about an hour more we came to
the town, where we were to lodge, which we found
in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it seems,
that, the night before, the wolves and some bears
had broken into that village, and put them in a ter-
rible fright; and they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in the night, to pre-
serve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther; so we were
obliged to take a new guide there, and go to Tho-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or any
thing like them; but when we told our story at
Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground;
but they inquired much what kind of a guide we
had gotten, that would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season; and told us, it was very
much we were not all devoured. When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told
us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroy-
ed; for it was the sight of the horses that made
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that
at other times they are really afraid of a gun; but
they being excessive hungry, and raging on that
account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger; and that if we had
not by the continued fire, and at last by the strata-
gem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on
horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not
have taken the horses so much for their own, when
men were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal
they told us, that at last, if we had stood all to-
gether, and left our horses, they would have been
so eager to have devoured them, that we might
have come off safe, especially having our fire-arms
in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger
in my life; for seeing above three hundred devils
come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and
having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave
myself over for lost; and as it was, I believe, I
shall never care to cross those mountains again;
I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues
by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm
once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in
my passage through France; nothing but what
other travellers have given an account of, with
much more advantage than I can. I travelled from
Tholouse to Paris, and without any considerable
stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover,
the fourteenth of January, after having had a se-
vere cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate
safe about me; the bills of exchange, which I
brought with me, having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my
good ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the
money I had sent her, thought no pains too much,
or care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with every thing, that I was per-
fectly easy as to the security of my effects; and
indeed I was very happy from my beginning, and
now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this
good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects
with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and
so to the Brazils. But now another scruple came
in the way, and that was religion; for as I had
entertained some doubts about the Roman religion,
even while I was abroad, especially in my state of
solitude; so I knew there was no going to the
Brazils for me, much less going to settle there,
unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic
religion, without any reserve; except, on the other
hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles,
be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition:
so I resolved to stay at home, and, if I could find
means for it, to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who in return gave me notice, that he
could easily dispose of it there: but that if I
thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully
understand the value of it, who lived just upon the
spot, and who I knew to be very rich, so that he
believed they would be fond of buying it; he did
not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces of
eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it
to them, and he did so; and in about eight months
more, the ship being then returned, he sent me an
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent
of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to
my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange
for 33,800 pieces of eight for the estate; reserving
the payment of 100 moidores a year to him (the
old man) during his life, and 50 moidores after-
wards to his son for his life, which I had promised
them; and which the plantation was to make good
as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first
part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of
Providence's chequer-work, and of a variety which
the world will seldom be able to shew the like of:
beginning foolishly, but closing much more hap-
pily than any part of it ever gave me leave so
much as to hope for. **
Any one would think, that in this state of com-
plicated good fortune, I was past running any more
hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other circum-
stances had concurred : but I was inured to a
wandering life, had no family, nor many relations;
nor, however rich, had I contracted much ac-
quaintance; and though I had sold my estate in
the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the
wing again; especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island, and to know
if the poor Spaniards were in being there; and
how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that al-
most for seven years she prevented my running
abroad; during which time I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my care:
the eldest having something of his own, I bred
up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of
some addition to his estate, after my decease; the
other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterpri-
sing young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and
sent him to sea: and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures
myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for, first of all, I married, and that not either to my
disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and had three chil-
dren, two sons and one daughter.
CHAP. IX.
Reflections—Unsettled state of mind, and conversa-
tion with my Wife thereon—Purchase a Farm in
the County of Bedford–Lose my Wife—I deter-
mine to revisit my Island, and for that purpose
settle all my affairs in England—Description of
the Cargo I carried out with me—Save the Crew
of a Vessel burnt at sea.
That homely proverb used on so many occasions
in England, viz. “That what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh,” was never more veri-
fied than in the story of my Life. Any one would
think, that after thirty-five years affliction, and a
variety of unhappy circumstances, which few men,
if any, ever went through before, and after near
seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness
of all things; grown old, and when, if ever, it might
be allowed me to have had experience of every state
of middle life, and to know which was most adapted
to make a man completely happy; I say, after all
this, any one would have thought that the native
propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of
in my first setting out into the world to have been
so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out,
the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con-
densed, and I might at sixty-one years of age have
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have
done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay farther, the common motive of foreign ad-
ventures was taken away in me; for I had no for-
tune to make, I had nothing to seek: if I had
gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer;
for I had already sufficient for me, and for those I
had to leave it to, and that I had was visibly in-
creasing; for having no great family, I could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set
up for an expensive way of living, such as a great
family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like,
which were things I had no notion of, or inclina-
tion to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to
sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it
increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or
at least not enough to resist the strong inclination
I had to go abroad again, which hung about me
like a chronical distemper; particularly the desire
of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the
colony I left there, run in my head continually. I
dreamed of it all night, and my imagination run
upon it all day; it was uppermost in all mythoughts,
and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon
it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing
could remove it out of my mind; it even broke so
violently into all my discourses, that it made my
conversation tiresome; for I could talk of nothing
else, all my discourse run into it, even to imperti-
nence, and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment
say, that all the stir people make in the world
about ghosts and apparitions, is owing to the
strength of imagination, and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing
as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking, and the
like; that people's poring affectionately upon the
past conversation of their deceased friends so rea-
lizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying,
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they
see them, talk to them, and are answered by them,
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and va-
pour in the thing; and they really know nothing
of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spec-
tres, or walking of people after they are dead, or
whether there is any thing in the stories they tell
us of that kind, more than the product of vapours,
sick minds, and wandering fancies. But this I
know, that my imagination worked up to such a
height, and brought me into such excess of va-
pours, or what else I may call it, that I actually
supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my
old castle behind the trees, saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors whom I
left upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with
them, and looked at them so steadily, though I was
broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this
I did till I often frightened myself with the images
my fancy represented to me: one time in my sleep
I had the villainy of the three pirate sailors so
lively related to me, by the first Spaniard and Fri-
day's father, that it was surprising; they told me
how they barbarously attempted to murder all the
Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions
they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve
them; things that I had never heard of, and that
were yet all of them true in fact; but it was so
warm in my imagination, and so realized to me,
that to the hour I saw them, I could not be per-
suaded but that it was or would be true; also how
I resented it when the Spaniard complained to me,
and how I brought them to justice, tried them be-
fore me, and ordered them all three to be hanged.
What there was really in this, shall be seen in its
place; for however I came to form such things in
my dream, and what secret converse of spirits in-
jected it, yet there was, Isay, very much of it true.
I own, that this dream had nothing literally and
specifically true; but the general part was so true,
the base and villainous behaviour of these three har-
dened rogues was such, aud had been so much worse
than all I can describe, that the dream had toe
much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
wards have punished them severely, so if I had
hanged them all, I had been much in the right,
and should have been justifiable both by the laws
of God and man.
But to return to my story—In this kind of tem-
per I had lived some years, I had no enjoyment of
my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion
but what had something or other of this in it; so
that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent
upon it, told me very seriously one night, that she
believed there was some secret powerful impulse of
Providence upon me, which had determined me to
go thither again; and that she found nothing hin-
dered my going, but my being engaged to a wife
and children. She told me, that it was true she
could not think of parting with me; but as she was
assured, that if she was dead it would be the first
thing I would do; so, as it seemed to her that the
thing was determined above, she would not be the
only obstruction; for if I thought fit, and resolved
to go Here she found me very intent upon her
words, and that I looked very earnestly at her; so
that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I
asked her why she did not go on, and say out what
she was going to say? But I perceived her heart
was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes:
“Speak out, my dear,” said I; “are you willing
I should go?” “No,” says she, very affection-
ately, “I am far from willing: but if you are re-
solved to go,” says she, “ and rather than I will be
the only hinderance, I will go with you; for though
I think it a preposterous thing for one of your years,
and in your condition, yet if it must be,” said she,
again weeping, “I won't leave you; for if it be of
Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, he will
also make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dis-
pose of me, that I may not obstruct it.”
This affectionate behaviour of my wife brought
me a little out of the vapours, and I began to con-
sider what I was doing; I corrected my wandering
fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately,
what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters,
and closed in so happy aud easy a manner, I say,
what business had I to rush into new hazards, and
put myself upon adventures, fit only for youth and
poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new en-
gagement; that I had a wife, one child born, and
my wife then great with child of another; that I
had all the world could give me, and had no need
to seek hazards for gain; that I was declining in
years, and ought to think rather of leaving what I
had gained, than of seeking to increase it; that as
to what my wife had said, of its being an impulse
from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go,
I had no notion of that; so after many of these co-
gitations, I struggled with the power of my imagi-
nation, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people
may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in a
word, I conquered it; composed myself with such
arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and which
my present condition furnished me plentifully with;
and particularly, as the most éffectual method, I
resolved to divert myself with other things, and to
engage in some business that might effectually tie
me up from any more excursions of this kind; for
I found the thing return upon me chiefly when I
was idle, had nothing to do, or any thing of mo-
ment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the
county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself
thither. I had a little convenient house upon it,
and the land about it I found was capable of great
improvement, and that it was many ways suited to
my inclination, which delighted in cultivating,
7
managing, planting, and improving of land; and
particularly, being an inland country, I was remo-
ved from conversing among ships, sailors, and
things relating to the remote part of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my
family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, wag-
gon, horses, cows, sheep; and setting seriously to
work, became in one half year a mere country
gentleman; my thoughts were entirely taken up in
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, en-
closing, planting, &c.; and I lived, as I thought,
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of
directing, or that a man always bred to misfor-
tunes was capable of being retreated to.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to
pay, was limited by no articles; I could pull up or
cut down as I pleased; what I planted was for my-
self, and what I improved was for my family; and
having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I
had not the least discomfort in any part of my
life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that
I enjoyed the middle state of life which my father
so earnestly recommended to me, a kind of hea-
venly life, something like what is described by the
poet upon the subject of a country life:
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
WOL. II. O
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow
from unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once;
and not only made a breach upon me, inevitable
and incurable, but drove me, by its consequence,
upon a deep relapse into the wandering disposi-
tion; which, as I may say, being born in my very
blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like the
returns of a violent distemper, came on with an ir-
resistible force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow
was the loss of my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon
my wife, to give a character of her particular vir-
tues, and make my court to the sex by the flattery
of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the
stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enter-
prises, the engine that by her prudence reduced
me to that happy compass I was in, from the most
extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in
my head as above; and did more to guide my ram-
bling genius, than a mother's tears, a father's in-
structions, a friend's counsel, or all my own reason-
ing powers could do. I was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties,
and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in
the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone the world looked awkward-
ly round me, I was as much a stranger in it in my
1 :
thoughts as I was in the Brazils when I went first
on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island.
I knew neither what to do, or what not to do; I
saw the world busy round me, one part labouring
for bread, and the other part squandering in vile
excesses or empty pleasures equally miserable, be-
cause the end they proposed still fled from them;
for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of their
vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance,
and the men of labour spent their strength in daily
strugglings for bread to maintain the vital strength
they laboured with; so living in a daily circulation
of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to
live, as if daily bread were the only end of a weari-
some life, and a wearisome life the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my
kingdom the island, where I suffered no more corn
to grow, because I did not want it; and bred no
more goats, because I had no more use for them;
where the money lay in the drawer till it grew
mildewed, and had scarce the favour to be looked
upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought
to have done, and as reason and religion had dic-
tated to me, would have taught me to search far-
ther than human enjoyments for a full felicity, and
that there was something which certainly was the
reason and end of life, superior to all these things,
and which was either to be possessed, or at least
hoped for, on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a
ship without a pilot, that could only run before the
wind; my thoughts run all away again into the old
affair, my head was quite turned with the whimsies
of foreign adventures; and all the pleasing inno-
cent amusements of my farm and my garden, my
cattle and my family, which before entirely pos-
sessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and
were like music to one that has no ear, or food to
one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to leave
off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to Lon-
don; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London I was still as uneasy as
before; I had no relish to the place, no employ-
ment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about like
an idle person, of whom it may be said, he is per-
fectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one
farthing matter to the rest of his kind whether he
be dead or alive. This also was the thing which
of all circumstances of life was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active
life; and I would often say to myself, “A state of
idleness is the very dregs of life;” and indeed I
thought I was much more suitably employed when
I was twenty-six days making me a deal board.
It was now the begining of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I
had brought up to the sea, and had made him
commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made; he
came to me, and told me, that some merchants of
his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go
a voyage for them to the East Indies and to China,
as private traders; “And now, uncle,” says he, “if
you will go to sea with me, I’ll engage to land you
upon your old habitation in the island, for we are
to touch at the Brazils.”
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a fu.
ture state, and of the existence of an invisible
world, than the concurrence of second causes with
the ideas of things which we form in our minds,
perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any
in the world. -
My nephew knew nothing how far my distem-
per of wandering was returned upon me, and I
knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to
say, when that very morning, before he came to
me, I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought,
and revolving every part of my circumstances in
my mind, come to this resolution, viz. that I would
go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-captain;
and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would
go and see the island again, and see what was be-
come of my people there. I had pleased myself
also with the thoughts of peopling the place, and
carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what; when in
the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I
have said, with his project of carrying me thither,
in his way to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadi-
ly at him, “What devil,” said I “sent you of this
unlucky errand "My nephew startled, as if he
had been frighted at first; but perceiving I was not
much displeased with the proposal, he recovered
himself. “I hope it may not be an unlucky pro-
posal, Sir,” says he; “I dare say you would be
pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother monarchs in the world.”
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my
temper, that is to say, with the prepossession I was
under, and of which I have said so much, that I
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the
merchants, I would go with him: but I told him I
would not promise to go any farther than my own
island. “Why, Sir,” says he, “ you don't want to
be left there again, I hope *—“Why,” said I “can
you not take me up again in your return?” He told
me, it could not be possible that the merchants
would allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his
way, and might be three or four: “Besides, Sir, if
I should miscarry,” said he, “ and not return at all,
then you would be just reduced to the condition
you were in before.”
This was very rational; but we both found out
a remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop
on board the ship, which, being taken in pieces
and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with
us, be set up again in the island, and finished, fit
to go to sea in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the impor-
tunities of my nephew joined in so effectually with
my inclination, that nothing could oppose me: on
the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerned themselves so much for me, as to per-
suade me one way or other, except my ancient good
friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me
to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and
the needless hazard of a long voyage; and, above
all, my young children: but it was all to no pur-
pose; I had an irresistible desire to the voyage;
and I told her I thought there was something so
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting
Providence, if I should attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and join-
ed with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my
absence, and providing for the education of my
children.
In order to this I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy and
satisfied they would have justice done them, what-
ever might befall me; and for their education, I
left it wholly to my widow, with a sufficient main-
tenance to herself for her care; all which she rich-
ly deserved; for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and
as she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank
her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the begin-
ning of January 1694 5, and I with my man Fri-
day went on board in the Downs the 8th, having,
besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things
for my colony, which if I did not find in good con-
dition, I resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
purposed to place there as inhabitants, or at least
to set on work there upon my own account while I
stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry
them forward, as they should appear willing; par-
ticularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a
very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by
trade, but was also a general mechanic; for he was
dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind
corn, was a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he
also made any thing that was proper to make of
earth, or of wood; in a word. we called him our
Jack of all Trades.
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered
himself to go passenger to the East Indies with my
nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our
new plantation, and proved a most necessary handy
fellow as could be desired, in many other busi-
nesses besides that of his trade; for, as I observed
formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have
not kept an account of the particulars, consisted of
a sufficient quantity of linen, and some thin Eng-
lish stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I expected
to find there, and enough of them as, by my calcu-
lation, might comfortably supply them for seven
years: if I remember right, the materials which I
carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes,
stockings, and all such things as they could want
for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds,
including some beds, bedding, and household-stuff,
particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles,
pewter, brass, &c. besides near a hundred pounds
more in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples,
hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could
think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets,
and fuzees, besides some pistols, a considerable
quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and because
I knew not what time and what extremities I was
providing for, I carried an hundred barrels of pow-
der, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part
of some pikes and halberts; so that, in short, we
had a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and L
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck
guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave be-
hind if there was occasion; that when they came
there we might build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies: and indeed I at first thought
there would be need enough of it all, and much
more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of
the island, as shall be seen in the course of the
story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had
been used to meet with; and therefore shall have
the less occasion to interrupt the reader, who per-
haps may be impatient to hear how matters went
with my colony; yet some odd accidents, eross
winds, and bad weather, happened on this first set-
ting out, which made the voyage longer than I ex-
pected it at first; and I, who had never made but
one voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea, in which
I might be said to come back again as the voyage
was at first designed, began to think the same ill
fate still attended me; and that I was born to be
never contented with being on shore, and yet to
be always unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward,
and we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ire-
land, where we lay wind-bound two-and-thirty
days: but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we
never touched the ship's stores, but rather added
to them : here also I took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had
a good passage, to put on shore in my island; but
we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland,
and had a very fair gale of wind for some days;
as I remember, it might be about the 20th of
February in the evening late, when the mate ha-
ving the watch, came into the round-house, and told
us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in,
and told us the boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes
we saw a very great light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a distance. Imme-
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which
we all agreed that there could be no land that way
in which the fire shewed itself, no, not for five
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W. N. W.
Upon this we concluded it must be some ship on
fire at sea; and as by our hearing the noise of guns
just before, we concluded it could not be far off, we
stood directly towards it, and were presently satis-
fied we should discover it, because the farther we
sailed the greater the light appeared, though the
weather being hazy we could not perceive any
thing but the light for a while : in about half an
hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little,
we could plainly discern that it was a great ship
on fire in the middle of the sea,
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster,
though not at all acquainted with the persons en-
gaged in it; I presently recollected my former
circumstances, in what condition I was in when
taken up by the Portugal captain; and how much
more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had
no other ship in company with them : upon this I
immediately ordered that five guns should be fired,
one soon after another, that, if possible, we might
give notice to them that there was help for them
at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see
the flame in the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as
the burning ship drove, waiting for day-light;
when on a sudden, to our great terror, though we
had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air,
and immediately sunk. This was terrible, and in-
deed an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor
men, who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed
in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boats in the middle of the ocean, which, at pre-
sent, by reason it was dark, I could not see: how-
ever, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship
where we could, and which we had lanterns for,
and kept firing guns all the night long; letting
them know by this, that there was a ship not far
off. -
About eight o'clock in the morning we disco-
vered the ship's boats, by the help of our per-
spective-glasses; and found there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water; we perceived they rowed, the wind being
against them; that they saw our ship, and did the
utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them
know we saw them; and hung a waft out, as a sig-
nal for them to come on board; and then made
more sail, standing directly to them. In a little
more than half an hour we came up with them,
and in a word took them all in, being no less than
sixty-four men, women, and children; for there
were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French mer-
chant-ship of three hundred tons, homeward-bound
from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master
gave us a long account of the distress of his ship,
how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence
of the steersman; but, on his crying out for help,
was, as every body thought, entirely put out: but
they soon found that some sparks of the first fire
had gotten into some part of the ship, so difficult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench
it; and afterwards getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded
into the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the
application they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into
their boats, which, to their great comfort, were
pretty large; being their long-boat, and a great
shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no great
service to them, other than to get some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they had se-
cured themselves from the fire. They had indeed
small hope of their lives by getting into these
boats at that distance from any land; only, as they
said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and
had a possibility, that some ship might happen to
be at sea, and might take them in. They had
sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparing to
make the best of their way to Newfoundland, the
wind blowing pretty fair; for it blew an easy gale
at S. E. by E. They had as much provisions and
water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might support them about twelve days;
in which, if they had no bad weather, and no con-
trary winds, the captain said, he hoped he might
get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might per-
haps take some fish to sustain them till they might
go on shore. But there were so many chances
against them in all these cases; such as storms to
overset and founder them ; rains and cold to be-
numb and perish their limbs; contrary winds to
keep them out and starve them; that it must have
been next to miraculous if they had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one
being hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain,
with tears in his eyes, told me, they were on a sud-
den surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire,
and after that four more; these were the five guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light:
this revived their hearts, and gave them the notice
which, as above, I designed it should, viz. that
there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they
took down their masts and sails; and the sound
coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by
till morning. Some time after this, hearing no
more guns, they fired three muskets, one a consi-
derable while after another; but these, the wind
being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and
hearing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused
to be fired all the rest of the night: this set them
to work with their oars to keep their boats ahead,
at least that we might the sooner come up with
them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they
found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several
gestures, the strange ecstacies, the variety of pos-
tures, which these poor delivered people run into,
to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected
a deliverance; grief and fear are easily described;
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of head
and hands, make up the sum of its variety: but an
excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand ex-
travagances in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been
in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark ra-
ving and downright lunatic; some ran about the
ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, several singing,
some laughing, more crying: many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word; others sick and vomit-
ing, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves, and giving God
thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might
be many that were thankful afterward; but the
passion was too strong for them at first, and they
were not able to master it; they were thrown into
ecstacies and a kind of frenzy, and so there were but
a very few who were composed and serious in their
joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition
to it, from the particular circumstance of the nation
they belonged to; I mean the French, whose tem-
per is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate,
and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid,
than of other nations. I am not philosopher to de-
termine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen
before came up to it: the ecstasies poor Friday,
my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father
in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the sur-
prise of the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the two villains that set them on
WOL. II. P
shore in the island, came a little way towards it;
but nothing was to compare to this, either that I
saw in Friday, or any where else in my life.
It is farther observable, that these extravagan-
ces did not shew themselves in that different man-
ner I have mentioned, in different persons only:
but all the variety would appear in a short succes-
sion of moments, in one and the same person. A
man that we saw this minute dumb, and as it were
stupid and confounded, should the next minute be
dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next
moment a-tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to
pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a
madman; a few minutes after that, we should have
him all in tears, then sick, then swooning; and had
not immediate help been had, would in a few mo-
ments more have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the
greatest part of them; and, if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to let above thirty of them
blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man, and the other a young man; and that which
was strangest was, that the oldest man was the
WOrSt.
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship,
and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone dead,
to all appearance; not the least sign of life could
be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately ap-
plied proper remedies to recover him; and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not
dead: and at length he opened a vein in his arm,
having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to
warm it as much as possible: upon this the blood,
which only dropped at first, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his
eyes; and about a quarter of an hour after that he
spoke, grew better, and, in a little time, quite well;
after the blood was stopped, he walked about, told
us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial
which the surgeon gave him, and was, what we
called, come to himself; about a quarter of an
hour after this they came running into the cabin
to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French woman
that had fainted, and told him the priest was gone
stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the
change of his circumstances in his mind, and this
put him into an ecstacy of joy: his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and feverish; and the man was
as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in
it; the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated
upon him, and he waked next morning perfectly
composed and well. -
The younger priest behaved himself with great
command of his passion, and was really an ex-
ample of a serious, well-governed mind; at his first
coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on
his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his
deliverance; in which I unhappily and unseason-
ably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in
a swoon: but he spoke calmly; thanked me; told
me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance;
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that
next to his Maker he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and
not only left him, but kept others from interrupt-
ing him also; he continued in that posture about
three minutes, or a little more, after I left him,
then came to me, as he had said he would, and
with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but
with tears in his eyes, thanked me that had, under
God, given him and so many miserable creatures
their lives: I told him, I had no room to move him
to thank God for it rather than me; for I had seen
that he had done that already : but I added, that
it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason
as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so
far as to make us the instruments of his mercy to
many of his creatures.
After this the young priest applied himself to
his country-folks; laboured to compose them; per-
suaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of
their reason; and with some he had success, though
others were, for a time, out of all government of
themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as per-
haps it may be useful to those into whose hands it
may fall, in the guiding themselves in all the ex-
travagances of their passions; for if an excess of
joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the
reach of their reason, what will not the extrava-
gances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry
us to ? And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping
an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind,
as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sor-
row and anger.
We were something disordered by these extrava-
gances among our new guests for the first day; but
when they had been retired, lodgings provided for
them as well as our ship would allow, and they
had slept heartily, as most of them did, being fa-
tigued and frightened, they were quite another sort
of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledge-
ments for the kindness shewn them, was wanting;
the French, it is known, are naturally apt enough
to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day; and, desiring to
speak with me and my nephew, the commander
began to consult with us what should be done with
them; and first they told us, that as we had saved
their lives, so all they had was little enough for a
return to us for the kindness received. The cap-
tain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out
of the flames: and if we would accept it, they were
ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only
desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way,
where, if possible, they might get a passage to
France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at
first word, and to consider what to do with them af-
terwards; but I over-ruled him in that part; for I
knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange
country; and if the Portugal captain that took me
up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for
my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been
as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at
Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan only ex-
cepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, a
much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had
taken them up in their distress, it was true; but
that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-
creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered,
if we were in the like or any other extremity; that
we had done nothing for them but what we belie-
ved they would have done for us if we had been in
their case and they in ours; but that we took them
up to serve them, not to plunder them; and that it
would be a most barbarous thing, to take that little
from them which they had saved out of the fire,
and then set them on shore and leave them; that
this would be first to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning,
and then abandon them to starving; and therefore
I would not let the least thing be taken from them:
as to setting them on shore, I told them indeed that
was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship
was bound to the East Indies; and though we were
driven out of our course to the westward a very
great way, which perhaps was directed by Heaven
on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impos.
sible for us wilfully to change our voyage on th’s
particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he
was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 231
them was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting
with other ships homeward-bound from the West
Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to Eng-
land or France, . .
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it;
but they were in a great consternation, especially
the passengers, at the notion of being carried away
to the East Indies: they then entreated me, that
seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I
met with them, I would at least keep on the same
course to the banks of Newfoundland, where it was
possible I might meet with some ship or sloop that
they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from
whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on
their part, and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for
indeed I considered, that to carry this whole com-
pany to the East Indies would not only be an into-
lerable severity to the poor people, but would be
ruining our whole voyage by devouring all our pro-
visions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party,
but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely
necessary to us; and in which no one could say we
were to blame; for the laws of God and nature
would have forbid, that we should refuse to take
up two boats full of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing, as well re-
specting ourselves, as the poor people, obliged us
to see them on shore somewhere or other, for their
deliverance; so I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would
permit; and, if not, that I would carry them to
Martinico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the wea-
ther pretty good; and as it had blowed continu-
ally in the points between N. E. and S. E. a long
time, we missed several opportunities of sending
them to France; for we met several ships bound
to Europe, whereof two were French, from St Chris-
topher's; but they had been so long beating up
against the wind, that they durst take in no pas-
sengers for fear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It
was about a week after this, that we made the
banks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my
story, we put all our French people on board a
bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them on
shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if
they could get provisions to victual themselves
with: when, I say, all the French went on shore,
I should remember that the young priest I spoke
of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, de-
sired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on
shore on the coast of Coromandel: I readily agreed
to that; for I wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also
four of the seamen entered themselves in our ship,
and proved very useful fellows.
CHAP. X.
Steer for the West Indies—Distressing account of a
Bristol Ship, the Crew of which we save in a state
of starvation—Arrive at my Island—Friday's joy
on discovering it—Affecting interview berwirt him
and his Father on landing—Narrative of the oc-
currences on the Island during my absence.
From hence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about
twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind
at all, when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as
that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N.
and the 19th day of March 1684-5, when we
espied a sail, our course S.E. and by S. We soon
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore
up to us; but could not at first know what to make
of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bow-
sprit; and presently she fires a gun as a signal of
distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at N.
N.W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak
with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol bound home
from Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the
road at Barbadoes, a few days before she was
ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the
captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
so that, beside the terror of the storm, they were
but in an indifferent case for good artists to bring
the ship home; they had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met with another terrible storm
after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and in which they had lost their masts, as above;
they told us, they expected to have seen the Baha-
ma Islands, but were then driven away again to
the south-east by a strong gale of wind at N. N.
W. the same that blew now, and having no sails to
work the ship with, but a main-course, and a kind
of square sail upon a jury-foremast, which they had
set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were
endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they
were almost starved for want of provisions, besides
the fatigues they had undergone; their bread and
flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left
in the ship, and had had none for eleven days; the
only relief they had, was, their water was not all
spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour
left; they had sugar enough; some succades or
sweetmeats they had at first, but they were devour-
ed; and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-
servant, on board, who were going passengers, and
thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily
came on board the evening before the hurricane
began; and, having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the
rest; for the seamen, being reduced to such an ex-
treme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we
may be sure, for the poor passengers; and they
were indeed in a condition that their misery is very
hard to describe. *
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curi-
osity had not led me, the weather being fair, and
the wind abated, to go on board the ship: the se-
cond mate, who upon this occasion commanded the
ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me
indeed, that they had three passengers in the great
cabin, that they were in a deplorable condition;
“Nay,” says he, “I believe they are dead, for I
have heard nothing of them for above two days;
and I was afraid to inquire after them,” said he,
“ for I had nothing to relieve them with.”
We immediately applied ourselves to give them
what relief we could spare; and indeed I had so
far over-ruled things with my nephew, that I would
have victualled them, though we had gone away to
Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to
have supplied ourselves; but there was no neces-
sity for that.
But now they were in a new danger, for they
were afraid of eating too much, even of that little
we gave them. The mate or commander brought
six men with him in his boat, but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak,
they could hardly sit to their oars; the mate him-
self was very ill, and half starved, for he declared
he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they
ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat
before him immediately, and he had not eaten three
mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of
order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mix-
ed him up something with some-broth, which he
said would be to him both food and physic; and
after he had taken it, he grew better: in the mean
time I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them, and the poor creatures rather devour-
ed than ate it; they were so exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no
command of themselves; and two of them ate with
so much greediness, that they were in danger of
their lives the next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very mo-
ving to me, and brought to mind what I had a ter-
rible prospect of at my first coming on shore in my
island, where I had not the least mouthful of food,
or any hopes of procuring it; besides the hourly
apprehension I had of being made the food of
other creatures. But all the while the mate was
thus relating to me the miserable condition of the
ship's company, I could not put out of my thought
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures
in the great cabin; viz. the mother, her son, and
the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of
for two or three days; and whom he seemed to
confess they had wholly neglected, their own ex-
tremities being so great; by which I understood,
that they had really given them no food at all; and
that therefore they must be perished, and be all
lying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the
cabin. -
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then
called captain, on board with his men to refresh
them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go
on board the ship, and with my mate and twelve
men to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five
pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the
men to cause the meat to be boiled while they
stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to
prevent the men's taking it to eat raw, or taking it
out of the pot before it was well boiled, and then
to give every man but a little at a time; and by
this caution he preserved the men, who would
otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their
lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into
the great cabin, and see what condition the poor
passengers were in, and, if they were alive, to com-
fort them and give them what refreshment was
proper; and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher
with some of the prepared broth which he had gi-
ven the mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery,
which I knew the ship itself would present me
with, in a more lively manner than I could have it
by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we
now called him, with me, and went myself a little
after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tu-
mult to get the victuals out of the boiler before
it was ready; but my mate observed his order, and
kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible per-
suasion to have patience, kept them off by force :
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped
in the pot, and softened them with the liquor of
the meat, which they call brewis, and gave every
one one, to stay their stomachs, and told them it
was for their own safety that he was obliged to give
them but little at a time. But it was all in vain,
and had I not come on board, and their own com-
mander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats also of giving them no more, I
believe they would have broke into the cook-room
by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however, we pacified them, and fed them
gradually and cautiously for the first time, and the
next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the ca-
bin was of another nature, and far beyond the rest;
for as, first, the ship's company had so little for
themselves, it was but too true, that they had at
first kept them very low, and at last totally ne-
glected them ; so that for six or seven days it
T -
might be said, they had really had no food at all,
and for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate re-
ported, was a woman of good sense and good breed-
ing, had spared all she could get so affectionately
for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat
upon the floor or deck, with her back up against
the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed
fast, and her head sunk in between her shoulders,
like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth; she
opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could
not speak: yet she understood what he said, and
made signs to him, intimating, that it was too late
for her; but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said, they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth; and, as he said, got two or
three spoonfuls down, though I question whether
he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late, and
she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of
his most affectionate mother's life, was not so far
gone; yet he lay in a cabin-bed as one stretched
out, with hardly any life left in him; he had a
WOL. II. Q
piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten
up the rest of it; however, being young, and ha-
ving more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly
to revive, though, by giving him some time after
but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was
very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay
all along upon the deck hard by her mistress, and
just like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy,
and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one
of her hands was clasped round the frame of
one chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could
not easily make her let it go; her other arm lay
over her head, and her feet lay both together, set
fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in short,
she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with
hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of death,
but, as the men told us afterwards, was broken-
hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two
or three days before, and whom she loved most
tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for
when our surgeon, who was a man of very great
knowledge and experience, and with great applica-
tion recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
3
hand as to her senses; for she was little less than
distracted for a considerable time after, as shall
appear presently. -
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must
be desired to consider, that visits at sea are not like
a journey into the country, where sometimes peo-
ple stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our busi-
mess was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but
not lie by for them; and though they were willing
to steer the same course with us for some days, yet
we could carry no sail to keep pace with a ship
that had no masts: however, as their captain beg-
ged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast,
and a kind of topmast to his jury-foremast, we did,
as it were, lie by him for three or four days, and
then having given him five barrels of beef and
pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of
pease, flour, and what other things we could spare;
and taking three casks of sugar and some rum, and
some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we
left them, taking on board with us, at their own
earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all
their goods. e
The young lad was about seventeen years of age,
a pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth;
greatly dejected with the loss of his mother, and,
as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon
to speak to me, to take him out of the ship; for
he said, the cruel fellows had murdered his mother;
and indeed so they had, that is to say, passively;
for they might have spared a small sustenance to
the poor helpless widow, that might have preserved
her life, though it had been just to keep her alive.
But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going,
and how it would carry him away from all his
friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circumstan-
ces, almost, as we found them in; that is to say,
starving in the world. He said he mattered not
whither he went, if he was but delivered from the
terrible crew that he was among: that the captain
(by which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure
would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he was
sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thank-
ful for it, let us carry them whither we would. The
surgeon represented the case so affectionately to
me, that I yielded, and we took them both on board
with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of su-
gar, which could not be removed, or come at; and
as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made
his commander sign a writing, obliging him to go,
as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr Rogers, a
1.
merchant there, to whom the youth said he was re-
lated, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the decea-
sed widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that
I am of opinion, the first storm she met with after-
wards she might founder in the sea; for she was
leaky, and had damage in her hold when I met
with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and
had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather,
though at first the winds had been contrary. I shall
trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind,
weather, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage;
but, shortening my story for the sake of what is to
follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habi-
tation, the island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It
was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as I came to it, and went from it before, on the
south and east side of the island, as coming from
the Brazils; so now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any land-mark, I did not know it when I saw
it, or know whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore
on several islands in the mouth of the great river
Oroonoque, but none for my purpose: only this I
learnt by my coasting the shore, that I was under
one great mistake before, viz. that the continent
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in,
was really no continent, but a long island, or rather
a ridge of islands reaching from one to the other
side of the extended mouth of that great river;
and that the savages who came to my island, were
not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind,
who inhabited something nearer to our side than
he rest.
In short, I visited several of the islands to no pur-
pose; some I found were inhabited, and some were
not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and
thought they had lived there; but speaking with
them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek
hard by, and that they came thither to make salt,
and catch some pearl-mussels, if they could; but
they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
farther north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, some-
times with the ship, sometimes with the French-
man's shallop (which we had found a convenient
boat, and therefore kept her with their very good
will,) at length I came fair on the south side of my
island, and I presently knew the very countenance
of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor
broadside with the little creek where was my old
habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday,
and asked him, if he knew where he was? He look-
ed about a little, and presently clapping his hands,
cried, “O yes, Othere, O yes, Othere!” pointing
to our old habitation, and fell a dancing and caper-
ing like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to
the place.
“Well, Friday,” said I, “ do you think we shall
find any body here, or no? and what do you think,
shall we see your father?” The fellow stood mute
as a stock a good while; but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejec-
ted; and I could see the tears run down his face
very plentifully. “What is the matter, Friday :"
said I; “ are you troubled because you may see
your father ”—“No, no,” says he, shaking his
head, “no see him more, no ever more see again.”
—“Why so,” said I, “Friday 2 how do you know
that?”—“O no, O no,” says Friday, “he long ago
die; long ago, he much old man.”—“Well, well,”
said I, “Friday, you don't know: but shall we see
any one else then "The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above
my old house; and though we lay half a league
off, he cries out, “ Me see! me see! yes, yes, me
*
see much man there, and there, and there.” I
looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a per-
spective-glass; which was, I suppose, because I
could not hit the place; for the fellow was right,
as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there
were five or six men all together stood to look at
the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and fired
three guns, to give them notice we were friends;
and about half a quarter of an hour after, we per-
ceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek; so
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday
with me; and hanging out a white flag, or a flag
of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me
the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told
the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular both of myself and those
that I left there, and who was on that account ex-
tremely desirous to go with me. We had besides
about sixteen men very well armed, if we had found
any new guest there which we did not know of;
but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek; and
the first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard
whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his
face perfectly well; as to his habit, I shall describe
it afterwards. I ordered no body to go on shore at
first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday
in the boat; for the affectionate creature had spied
his father at a distance, a good way off of the
Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and
if they had not let him go on shore he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he flew away to his father like an arrow out of
a bow. It would have made any man shed tears
in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this poor fellow's joy, when he
came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set
him down upon a tree, and lay down by him; then
stood and looked at him as any one would look at
a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together;
then lay down upon the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again,
and stared at him; one would have thought the
fellow bewitched : but it would have made a dog
laugh to see how the next day his passion run out
another way: in the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father, several hours,
always leading him by the hand as if he had been
a lady; and every now and then would come to
fetch something or other for him from the boat,
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, or
something or other that was good. In the afternoon
his frolics ran another way; for then he would set
the old man down upon the ground, and dance
about him, and made a thousand antic postures and
gestures; and all the while he did this he would be
talking to him, and telling him one story or another
of his travels, and of what had happened to him
abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial
affection was to be found in Christians to their pa-
rents in our parts of the world, one would be tempt-
ed to say there hardly would have been any need
of the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression; I return to my landing.
It would be endless to take notice of all the cere-
monies and civilities that the Spaniards received me
with. The first Spaniard whom, as I said, I knew
very well, was he whose life I saved: he came to-
wards the boat attended by one more, carrying a
flag of truce also; and he did not only not know
me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of
its being me that was come till I spoke to him.
“Seignior,” said I, in Portuguese, “do you not
know me?” at which he spoke not a word; but
giving his musket to the man that was with him,
threw his arms abroad, and saying something in
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came for-
ward, and embraced me, telling me, he was inex-
cusable not to know that face again that he had
once seen, as of an angel from Heaven sent to
save his life: he said abundance of very handsome
things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how;
and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He
then asked me if I would walk to my old habita-
tion, where he would give me possession of my
own house again, and where I should see there had
been but mean improvements; so I walked along
with him; but, alas! I could no more find the
place again than if I had never been there; for they
had planted so many trees, and placed them in
such a posture, so thick and close to one another,
in ten years time they were grown so big, that, in
short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings and blind ways as they themselves only
who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these for-
tifications? He told me, I would say there was
need enough of it, when they had given an account
how they had passed their time since their arriving
in the island, especially after they had the misfor-
tune to find that I was gone: he told me he could
... not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune,
when he heard that I was gone in a good ship,
and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes
a strong persuasion, that one time or other he should
see me again: but nothing that ever befel him in
his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to
him at first, as the disappointment he was under
when he came back to the island, and found I was
not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them)
that were left behind, and of whom he said he had
a long story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the savages, only
that their number was so small. “And,” says he,
“ had they been strong enough, we had been all
long ago in purgatory;” and with that he crossed
himself upon the breast. “But, Sir,” says he, “I
hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell
you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them, and making
them our subjects, who would not be content with
being moderately our masters, but would be our
murderers.” I answered, I was heartily afraid of
it when I left them there; and nothing troubled
me at my parting from the island, but that they
were not come back, that I might have put them in
possession of every thing first, and left the other in
a state of subjection, as they deserved: but if they
had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and
should be very far from finding any fault with it;
for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungo-
vernable villains, and were fit for any manner of
mischief.
While I was saying this came the man whom
he had sent back, and with him eleven men more :
in the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess
what nation they were of; but he made all clear
both to them and to me. First he turned to me,
and pointing to them, said, “These, Sir, are some
of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you;” and
then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who I was; upon which they all came
up one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and
ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if
they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a
monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour
was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and
yet mixed with a manly majestic gravity, which
very well became them: and in short they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew
how to receive their civilities, much less how to
return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in
the island after my going away, is so remarkable,
and has so many incidents, which the former part
of my relation will help to understand, and which
will, in most of the particulars, refer to that account
I have already given, that I cannot but commit
them with great delight to the reading of those
that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation
in the first person, which will put me to the ex-
pense of ten thousand Said I's, and Said he's, and
He told me’s, and I told him's, and the like; but
I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can
gather them out of my memory from what they
related to me, and from what I met with in my
conversing with them, and with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly
as I can, I must go back to the circumstance in
which I left the island, and which the persons
were in of whom I am to speak. At first it is ne-
cessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had
rescued from the savages; I say, I had sent them
away in a large canoe to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions
whom he had left behind him, in order to save
them from the like calamity that he had been in,
and in order to succour them for the present, and
that if possible, we might together find some way
for our deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appear-
ance of, or the least room to hope for, my own de-
liverance, any more than I had twenty years be-
fore; much less had I any foreknowledge of what
after happened, I mean of an English ship coming
on shore there to fetch them off; and it could not
but be a very great surprise to them when they
came back, not only to find that I was guile, but
to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed
of all that I had left behind me, which would other-
wise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into,
that I might begin where I left off, was of their
own part; and I desired he would give me a par-
ticular account of his voyage back to his country-
men with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them
over. He told me there was little variety in that
part; for nothing remarkable happened to them
on the way, they having very calm weather and a
smooth sea; for his countrymen it could not be
doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to
see him (it seems he was the principal man among
them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time:) they
were, he said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was fallen into the hands
of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour
him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners;
that when he told them the story of the delive
ance, and in what manner he was furnished
carrying them away, it was like a dream to the
and their astonishment, they said, was somethin
like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them
who he was, and told them the story of his exalta-
tion in Pharaoh's court; but when he shewed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the pro-
visions that he brought them for their journey or
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and im-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
The first business was to get canoes; and in
this they were obliged not to stick so much upon
the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their
friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes
or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing,
or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning; it
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready,
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provi-
sions, or any other thing in the world, but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which
they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offer-
ed for my escape, as I mentioned in my other
part, and to get off from the island; leaving three
of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, dis-
agreeable villains behind me that any man could
desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards' great
grief and disappointment you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that
when the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my
letter to them, and gave them provisions and other
relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they
gave them the long paper of directions, which I
had left with them, containing the particular me-
thods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred
up my tame goats, and planted my corn; how I
cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
every thing I did; all this being written down,
they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom under-
stood English well enough; nor did they refuse
to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing else,
for they agreed very well for some time: they gave
them an equal admission into the house, or cave,
and they began to live very sociably; and the head
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my me-
thod, and Friday's father together, managed all
their affairs; for as for the Englishmen, they did
nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots,
and catch tortoises, and when they came home at
night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for
them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with
this, would the other but have left them alone;
which, however, they could not find in their hearts
to do long; but, like the dog in the manger, they
would not eat themselves, and would not let others
eat neither: the differences, nevertheless, were at
first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating;
WOL. ii. R
but at last it broke out into open war, and it began
with all the rudeness and insolence that can be
imagined, without reason, without provocation,
contrary to nature, and indeed to common sense;
and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the
accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part,
I must supply a defect in my former relation; and
this was, that I forgot to set down among the rest,
that just as we were weighing the anchor to set
sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our
ship, which I was afraid once would turn to a se-
cond mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain,
rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his as-
sistance, parted them by force, and making two of
the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them
in irons; and as they had been active in the for-
mer disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous
words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there
for mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend
to do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and
some of them had put it in the heads of the rest,
that the captain only gave them good words for
the present till they should come to some English
5
port, and that then they should be all put into a
gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted
us with it; upon which it was desired that I, who
still passed for a great man among them, should go
down with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell
them, that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for
the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and
after passing my honour's word to them, they ap-
peared easy, and the more so, when I caused the
two men who were in irons to be released and for-
given.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for
that night, the wind also falling calm. Next morn-
ing we found that our two men, who had been laid
in irons, had stole each of them a musket and some
other weapons; what powder or shot they had we
knew not; and had taken the ship's pinnace, which
was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to
their companions in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-
boat on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and
away they went to seek the rogues; but they could
neither find them, nor any of the rest; for they
all fled into the woods when they saw the boat
coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in
justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burnt all their household stuff and fur-
niture, and left them to shift without it; but having
no order, he let all alone, left every thing as they
found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on
board without them.
These two men made their number five : but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than
these, that after they had been two or three days
together, they turned their two new-comers out of
doors to shift for themselves, and would have no-
thing to do with them; nor could they, for a good
while, be persuaded to give them any food : as for
the Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the bu-
siness began to go forward; the Spaniards would
have persuaded the three English brutes to have
taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would
not hear of it: so the two poor fellows lived by
themselves, and finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortable,
they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of
the danger of the savages, who always landed on
the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their magazines and stores in;
and the Spaniards having given them some corn
for seed, and especially some of the pease which I
had left them, they dug and planted, and inclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began
to live pretty well: their first crop of corn was on
the ground, and though it was but a little bit of
land which they had dug up at first, having had
but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them,
and find them with bread or other eatables; and
one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of the
ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings,
and such other preparations, as the rice and the
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture,
when the three unnatural rogues, their own coun-
trymen too, in mere humour, and to insult them,
came and bullied them, and told them the island
was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had
given them possession of it, and nobody else had
any right to it; and, damn them, they should build
no houses upon their ground, unless they would
pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first,
and asked them to come and sit down, and see
what fine houses they were that they had built,
and tell them what rent they demanded: and one
of them merrily told them, if they were ground-
landlords, he hoped if they built tenements upon
the land, and made improvements, they would, ac-
cording to the custom of all landlords, grant them
a long lease; and bid them go fetch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and
raging, told them they should see they were not in
jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where
the honest men had made a fire to dress their
victuals, he takes a firebrand and claps it to the
outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire;
and it would have been all burnt down in a few
minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fel-
low, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his
feet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest
man's thrusting him away, that he turned upon
him with a pole he had in his hand; and had not
the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run
into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran
in after him, and immediately they came both out
with their muskets; and the man that was first
struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down
who began the quarrel, with the stock of his mus-
#et, and that before the other two could come to
help him; and then seeing the rest come at them,
they stood together, and presenting the other ends
of their pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one
of the two honest men, bolder than his comrade,
and made desperate by his danger, told them if
they offered to move hand or foot they were all
dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay
down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; but seeing him resolute, it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their
wounded man with them, and be gone; and, in-
deed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently
with the blow: however, they were much in the
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did
not disarm them effectually, as they might have
done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards,
and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing
but revenge, and every day gave them some inti-
mation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of
the lesser part of their rogueries, such as treading
down their corn, shooting three young kids and a
she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and in a word, plaguing them
night and day in this manner, it forced the two
men to such a desperation, that they resolved to
fight them all three the first time they had a fair
opportunity. In order to this they resolved to go
to the castle, as they called it, that was my old
dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together at that time, intending to have a
fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to
see fair play. So they got up in the morning be-
fore day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
CHAP. XI.
Marrative continued—Insolence of three of the Eng-
lishmen to the Spaniards—They are disarmed and
brought to order—A great body of Savages land
upon the Island—They turn out to be two adverse
Nations met there by chance—A bloody Battle be-
twirt them—Several of the vanquished Party secu-
red by the Spaniards.
IT happened that the day before two of the Spa-
niards, having been in the woods, had seen one of
the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I call
the honest men; and he had made a sad complaint to
the Spaniards, of the barbarous usage they had met
with from their three countrymen, and how they
had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their
corn, that they had laboured so hard to bring for-
ward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sus-
tenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came
home at night, and they were all at supper, he took
the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in gentle and mannerly terms, and asked
them, how they could be so cruel, they being harm-
less inoffensive fellows, and that they were putting
themselves in a way to subsist by their labour,
and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to
bring things to such perfection as they had 2
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly,
“What had they to do there? That they came
on shore without leave, and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their
ground.”—“Why,” says the Spaniard, very calmly,
“Seignior Inglese, they must not starve.” The
Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn tar-
paulin, “they might starve and be damned, they
should not plant nor build in that place.”—“But
what must they do then, Seignior * says the Spa-
niard. Another of the brutes returned, “ Do!
d—n them, they should be servants, and work for
them.” “But how can you expect that of them
they are not bought with your money; you have
no right to make them servants.” The English-
man answered, “The island was theirs, the gover-
nor had given it to them, and no man had anything
to do there but themselves;” and with that swore
by his Maker, that he would go and burn all their
new huts; they should build none upon their land.
“Why, Seignor,” says the Spaniard, “ by the
same rule, we must be your servants too.” “Ay,”
says the bold dog, “ and so you shall too, before
we have done with you;” mixing two or three
G—d d-mme's in the proper intervals of his
speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and
made him no answer. However, this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says
to the other, I think it was he they called Will
Atkins, “ Come, Jack, let us go and have the other
brush with them; we will demolish their castle, I
will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in
our dominions.”
Upon this they were all trooping away, with
every man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and mut-
tered some insolent things among themselves, of
what they would do to the Spaniards too, when op-
portunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did
not so perfectly understand them as to know all
the particulars; only that, in general, they threat-
ened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's
part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not
know; but it seems they wandered about the coun-
try part of the night; and then lying down in the
place which I used to call my bower, they were
weary, and overslept themselves. The case was
this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and
so to take the poor men when they were asleep;
and they acknowledged it afterwards, intending to
set fire to their huts while they were in them, and
either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and, as malice seldom sleeps very sound,
it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking. -
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much fairer one
than that of burning and murdering, it happened,
and very luckily for them all, that they were up
and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues
came to their huts.
When they came thither, and found the men
gone, Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest man,
called out to his comrades, “Ha! Jack, here's the
nest; but d-n them, the birds are flown.” They
mused awhile to think what should be the occasion
of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently, that the Spaniards had given them notice
of it; and with that they shook hands, and swore
to one another, that they would be revenged of the
Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody
bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's ha-
bitation; they did not set fire indeed to any thing,
but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled
them so limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood; they tore all their little collect-
ed household-stuff in pieces, and threw every thing
about in such a manner, that the poor men found,
afterwards, some of their things a mile off from
their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the
young trees which the poor men had planted;
pulled up the enclosure they had made to secure
their cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked
and plundered every thing, as completely as a herd
of Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find
them out, and had resolved to fight them wherever
they had been, though they were but two to three:
so that, had they met, there certainly would have
been bloodshed among them; for they were all
very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them
asunder, than they themselves could do to meet:
for, as they had dogged one another, when the
three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them,
the three were come to the old habitation again:
we shall see their differing conduct presently.
When the three came back, like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had
been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by
way of scoff and bravado; and one of them step-
ping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as
it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about,
fleering in his face, says he to him, “And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce,
if you do not mend your manners.” The Spa-
niard, who though quite a civil man, was as brave
as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of
his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with
a pole-axe ; at which one of the rogues, insolent as
the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme-
diately: he missed his body indeed, for the bullets
went through his hair, but one of them touched the
tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt
than he really was, and that put him into some
heat, for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but
now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the
man who had fired at him; when the rest of the
Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling
to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they
had made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well
as their own countrymen, they began to cool; and
giving the Spaniards better words, would have had
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering
the feud that was between them and the other two
Englishmen, and that it would be the best method
they could take to keep them from one another,
told them they would do them no harm; and if
they would live peaceably they would be very wil-
ling to assist and associate with them, as they did
before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved
to do mischief with them to their own countrymen,
and had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear rea-
son than to act reason; but being refused their
arms, they went raving away, and raging like mad-
men, threatening what they would do, though they
had no fire-arms: but the Spaniards, despising their
threatening, told them they should take care how
they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle;
for if they did, they would shoot them, as they
would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found
them; and if they fell into their hands alive, they
would certainly be hanged. However, this was far
from cooling them; but away they went, swearing
and raging like furies of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and
rage enough also, though of another kind; for,
having been at their plantation, and finding it all
demolished and destroyed, as above, it will easily
be supposed they had provocation enough; they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spa-
niards were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was
strange enough to find, that three men should thus
bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and espe-
cially having thus disarmed them, made light of
their threatenings; but the two Englishmen re-
solved to have their remedy against them, what
pains soever it cost to find them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told
them, that they were already disarmed: they could
not consent that they (the two) should pursue them
with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them: “But,” said
the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, “we
will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for, as there is no doubt but they
will come to us again when their passion is over,
being not able to subsist without our assistance, we
promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this
condition we hope you will promise to use no vio-
lence with them, other than in your defence.”
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awk-
wardly, and with great reluctance; but the Spa-
niards protested, they did it only to keep them
from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last;
“For,” said they, “we are not so many of us;
here is room enough for us all, and it is great pity
we should not be all good friends.” At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue of the
thing, living for some days with the Spaniards;
for their own habitation was destroyed.
In about five days time the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger,
having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while,
came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two
more with him, walking by the side of the creek;
they came up in a very submissive humble manner,
and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them,
they had acted so unnaturally by their country-
men, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards),
that they could not come to any conclusion with-
out consulting the two Englishmen, and the rest;
but however they would go to them, and discourse
about it, and they should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed that they were very hard put to
VOL. II. s
it; for it seems, as they were to wait this half-hour
for an answer, they begged he would send them
out some bread in the mean time; which he did,
and sent them at the same time a large piece of
goat's flesh, and a broiled parrot, which they ate
very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called
in, and a long debate had about them, their two
countrymen charging them with the ruin of all
their labour, and a design to murder them; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not
deny now; upon the whole, the Spaniards acted
the moderators between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three,
while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows’
two huts, one to be of the same dimensions, and the
other larger than they were before; also to fence
their ground again, where they had pulled up the
fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled up,
dig up the land again for planting corn, where they
had spoiled it; and, in a word, to restore every
thing in the same state as they found it, as near as
they could; for entirely it could not be, the season
for the corn, and the growth of the trees and
hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this: and as they
had plenty of provisions given them all the while,
3
£hey grew very orderly, and the whole society be-
gan to live pleasantly and agreeably together again;
only that these three fellows could never be per-
suaded to work; I mean, not for themselves, ex-
cept now and then a little, just as they pleased;
however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if
they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation,
they would be content to work for them, and let
them walk about and be as idle as they pleased;
and thus having lived pretty well together for a
month or two, the Spaniards gave them their arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with
them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these
arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful crea-
tures began to be as insolent and troublesome as
before; but however, an accident happened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all; they were obliged to lay by all private
resentments, and look to the preservation of their
lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard gover-
nor, as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, who was now the captain, or lead-
er, or governor of the rest, found himself very un-
easy in the night, and could by no means get any
sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only found his thoughts tumultuous;
his mind ran upon men fighting, and killing one an-
other, but was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep; in short, he lay a great
while; but growing more and more uneasy, he re-
solved to rise: as they lay, being so many of them,
upon goats-skins, laid thick upon such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but one, so
they had little to do, when they were willing to
rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they
were ready for going any way that their thoughts
guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being
dark, he could see little or nothing; and besides,
the trees which I had planted, as in my former ac-
count is described, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up,
and see that it was a clear star-light night; and,
hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down
again; but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor
could he compose himself to anything like rest, but
his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and yet
he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them
waked, and, calling, asked who it was that was up ;
The governor told him how it had been with him.
“Say you so * says the other Spaniard; “ such
things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there is
certainly some mischief working,” says he, “near
us;” and presently he asked him,” “Where are
the Englishmen?”—“They are all in their huts,”
says he, “ safe enough.” It seems, the Spaniards
had kept possession of the main apartment, and had
made a place, where the three Englishmen, since
their last mutiny, always quartered by themselves,
and could not come at the rest. “Well,” says the
Spaniard, “there is something in it, I am persuad-
ed from my own experience; I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have converse with, and receive
intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and in-
habiting the invisible world; and this friendly no-
tice is given for our advantage, if we know how to
make use of it. Come,” says he, “let us go out
and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in
it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story to the
purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it.”
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong,
and in good company, nor alone, as I was, used
none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and
then pulling it up after them, to go up a second
stage to the top, but were going round through the
grove unconcerned and unwary, when they were
surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little
way off from them, and hearing the voices of men,
not of one, or two, but of a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to
prevent them making the least discovery of there
being any inhabitant upon the place; and when by
any necessity they came to know it, they felt it so
effectually, that they that got away, were scarce
able to give any account of it, for we disappeared
as soon as possible, nor did ever any that had seen
me, escape to tell any one else, except it were the
three savages in our last encounter, who jumped
into the boat, of whom I mentioned that I was
afraid they should go home, and bring more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those men, that so great a number came now to-
gether; or whether they came ignorantly, and by
accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spa-
niards could not, it seems, understand: but whatever
it was, it had been their business, either to have
concealed themselves, and not have seen them at
all; much less to have let the savages have seen,
that there were any inhabitants in the place; but
to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not
a man of them should have escaped, which could
only have been by getting in between them and
their boats: but this presence of mind was wanting
to them; which was the ruin of their tranquillity
for a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor, and
the man with him, surprised with this sight, ran
back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were
all in; and they again as readily took the alarm;
but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close
within where they were, but that they must all run
out to see how things stood.
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours,
to view them by the light of three fires they had
made at some distance from one another; what they
were doing they knew not, and what to do them-
selves they knew not; for, first, the enemy were
too many; and, secondly, they did not keep to-
gether, but were divided into several parties, and
were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at
this sight; and as they found that the fellows ran
straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt,
but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon
their habitation, or upon some other place, wher
they would see the tokens of inhabitants; and the
were in great perplexity also for fear of their flock
of goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, if they should have been destroyed;
so the first thing they resolved upon, was to dis-
patch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the
goats away to the great valley where the cave was,
and, if need were, to drive them into the very cave
itself.
Could they have seen the savages all together in
one body, and at a distance from their canoes, they
resolved, if there had been an hundred of them, to
have attacked them; but that could not be obtained,
for there were some of them two miles off from the
other, and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two
different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course
they should take, and beaten their brains in consi-
dering their present circumstances, they resolved at
last, while it was dark, to send the old savage (Fri-
day's father) out as a spy, to learn if possible some-
thing concerning them, as what they came for, and
what they intended to do, and the like. The old
man readily undertook it, and stripping himself
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he
went. After he had been gone an hour or two, he
brings word that he had been among them undis-
covered, that he found they were two parties, and
of two several nations, who had war with one an-
other, and had had a great battle in their own
country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were by mere
chance landed in the same island for the devour-
ing their prisoners, and making merry; but their
coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled
all their mirth; that they were in a great rage at
one another, and were so near, that he believed
they would fight again as soon as daylight began to
appear; but he did not perceive that they had any
motion of any body's being on the island but them-
selves. He had hardly made an end of telling the
story, when they could perceive, by the unusual
noise they made, that the two little armies were en-
gaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could
to persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen:
he told them their safety consisted in it, and that
they had nothing to do but to lie still, and the sa-
vages would kill one another to their hands, and
the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon
the Englishmen, their curiosity was so importunate
upon their prudentials, that they must run out and
see the battle; however, they used some caution,
viz. they did not go openly just by their own dwel-
ling, but went farther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might secure-
ly see them manage the fight, and, as they thought,
not to be seen by them; but it seems the savages
did see them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and if I might be-
lieve the Englishmen, one of them said he could
perceive that some of them were men of great
bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held
two hours before they could guess which party
would be beaten; but then that party which was
nearest our people's habitation began to appear
weakest, and, after some time more, some of them
began to fly; and this put our men again into a
great consternation, lest any of those that fled
should run into the grove before their dwelling for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place,
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved,
that they would stand armed within the wall, and
whoever came into the grove they should sally out
over the wall, and kill them, so that if possible not
one should return to give an account of it; they
ordered also, that it should be done with their swords,
or by knocking them down with the stock of the
musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising
an alarm by the noise.
As they expected it fell out: three of the routed
army fled for life, and crossing the creek ran di-
rectly into the place, not in the least knowing whi-
ther they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition to our
men's great satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors
had not pursued them, or seen which way they
were gone. Upon this the Spaniard governor, a
man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the
three fugitives; but sending three men out by the
top of the hill, ordered them to go round and come
in behind them, surprise and take them prisoners;
which was done: the residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes, and got off to sea; the
victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little,
but drawing themselves into a body together, gave
two great screaming shouts, which they supposed
were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended;
and the same day, about three o'clock in the after-
moon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus
the Spaniards had their island again free to them-
selves, their fright was over, and they saw no sava-
ges in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came
out of their den, and viewing the field of battle, they
found about two-and-thirty dead men upon the
spot; some were killed with great long arrows, se-
veral of which were found sticking in their bodies,
but most of them were killed with their great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found
in the field of battle, and as many bows, with a
great many arrows. These swords were great un-
wieldy things, and they must be very strong men
that used them; most of those men that were kil-
led with them had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their
brains knocked out, and several of their arms and
legs broken; so that it is evident they fight with
inexpressible rage and fury. They found not one
wounded man that was not stone dead; for either
they stay by their enemy till they have quite kil-
led them, or they carry all the wounded men, that
are not quite dead, away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a
great while; the sight had filled them with horror,
and the consequence appeared terrible to the last
degree, especially upon supposing that some time
or other they should fall into the hands of those
creatures, who would not only kill them as ene-
mies, but kill them for food as we kill our cattle.
And they professed to me, that the thoughts of
being eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was
supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their
very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with unusual terror,
that they were not themselves for some weeks
after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of, and for a great
while after they were very tractable, and went about
the common business of the whole society well
enough; planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be
all naturalized to the country; but some time after
this they fell all into such simple measures again as
brought them into a great deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had ob-
served; and these three being lusty stout young
fellows, they made them servants, and taught them
to work for them; and as slaves they did well
enough; but they did not take their measures with
them as I did by my man Friday, viz. to begin
with them upon the principle of having saved their
lives, and then instructed them in the rational
principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing
and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate
arguings; but as they gave them their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept
them fully employed in drudgery enough; but they
failed in this by it, that they never had them to
assist them and fight for them as I had my man
Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh
upon my bones.
But to come to the family part: Being all now
good friends (for common danger, as I said above,
had effectually reconciled them,) they began to
consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing that came under their consideration was,
whether, seeing the savages particularly haunted
that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to
their way of living, and manifestly to their advan-
tage, they should not rather remove their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle
and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived
that they should not remove their habitation, be-
cause that some time or other they thought they
might hear from their governor again, meaning
me; and if I should send any one to seek them, I
would be sure to direct them on that side, where if
they should find the place demolished they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were
gone, and so our supply would go away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper to both, and where
indeed there was land enough; however, upon se-
cond thoughts they altered one part of that resolu-
tion too, and resolved only to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there;
and so, if one part was destroyed, the other might
be saved; and one piece of prudence they used,
which it was very well they did; viz. that they
never trusted these three savages, which they had
taken prisoners, with knowing any thing of the
plantation they had made in that valley, or of any
cattle they had there; much less of the cave there,
which they kept in case of necessity as a safe re-
treat; and thither they carried also the two bar-
rels of powder which I had left them at my co-
ming away.
But however they resolved not to change their
habitation; yet they agreed, that as I had careful-
ly covered it first with a wall and fortification, and
then with a grove of trees; so seeing their safety
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which
they were now fully convinced, they set to work to
cover and conceal the place yet more effectually
than before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees
(or rather thrust in stakes which in time all grew
to be trees) for some good distance before the en-
trance into my apartment, they went on in the same
manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space
of ground, from the trees I had set quite down to
the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my
floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide
flowed, not so much as leaving any place to land,
or any sign that there had been any landing there-
about. These stakes also being of a wood very for-
ward to grow, as I had noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller
than those which I had planted, and placed them
so very thick and close, that when they had been
three or four years grown, there was no piercing
with the eye any considerable way into the planta-
tion. As for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh; and
among them they placed so many other short ones,
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisa-
do a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate it but with a little army to cut
it all down; for a little dog could hardly get be-
tween the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by
all the ground to the right hand, and to the left,
and round even to the top of the hill, leaving no
way, not so much as for themselves to come out,
but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill,
and then lifted up and placed again from the first
stage up to the top; which ladder, when it was taken
down, nothing but what had wings or witch-craft
to assist it, could come at them.
This was excellently well contrived, nor was it
less than what they afterwards found occasion for;
which served to convince me, that as human pru-
dence has authority of Providence to justify it, so
it has, doubtless, the direction of Providence to set
it to work, and, would we listen carefully to the
voice of it, I am fully persuaded we might prevent
many of the disasters which our lives are now by
our own negligence subjected to: but this by the
way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after
this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits
from the savages; they had indeed an alarm given
them one morning, which put them in a great con-
sternation; for some of the Spaniards being out
early one morning on the west side, or rather end of
the island, which, by the way, was that end where
I never went, for fear of being discovered, they were
surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians
just coming on shore. -
They made the best of their way home in hurry
enough, and giving the alarm to their comrades,
they kept close all that day and the next, going out
only at night to make observation; but they had
the good luck to be mistaken, for wherever the
savages went, they did not land at that time on the
island, but pursued some other design.
vol. ii. - T
CHAP. XII.
-
Fresh broils betwixt the turbulent Englishmen and the
Spaniards—The English make a Voyage to the
Main Land, and return in twenty-two days—Par-
ticulars of their Voyage—Description of the Men
and Women they brought with them—The Colony
discovered by an unlucky accident to the Savages,
who invade the Island, but are defeated.
And now they had another broil with the three
Englishmen, one of which, a most turbulent fel-
low, being in a rage at one of the three slaves
which I mentioned they had taken, because the
fellow had not done something right which he bid
him do, and seemed a little untractable in his
shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt,
in which he bore it by his side, and fell upon him,
the poor savage, not to correct him but to kill
him. One of the Spaniards who was by, seeing
him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the
hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck
7 - -
into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut
the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and en-
treating him not to murder the poor man, clapt in
between him and the savage to prevent the mis-
chief.
The fellow being enraged the more at this,
struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore
he would serve him as he intended to serve the
savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided
the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his
hand (for they were working in the field about the
corn-land,) knocked the brute down; another of
the Englishmen running at the same time to help
his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down, and then
two Spaniards more came to help their man, and a
third Englishman fell upon them. They had none
of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third English-
man; he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the last Spaniards, and wounded
them both. This fray set the whole family in an
uproar, and more help coming in, they took the
three Englishmen prisoners. The next question
was, what should be done with them they had
been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so
desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew not
what course to take with them, for they were mis-
-
chievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did any man; so that, in short, it was
not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in
so many words, that if they had been his own
countrymen he would have hanged them all; for
all laws and all governors were to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to the society ought
to be expelled out of it; but as they were English-
men, and that it was to the generous kindness of
an Englishman that they all owed their preserva-
tion and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judge-
ment of the other two Englishmen, who were their
countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and
said they desired it might not be left to them;
“ For,” says he, “I am sure we ought to sentence
them to the gallows; and with that gives an ac-
count how Will Atkins, one of the three, had pro-
posed to have all the five Englishmen join together,
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in
their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls
to Will Atkins: “How, Seignior Atkins,” says he,
“will you murder us all? What have you to say
to that? That hardened villain was so far from de-
nying it, that he said it was true, and, G-d d-mn
him, they would do it still before they had done
with them. “Well but Seignior Atkins,” said
the Spaniard, “what have we done to you that you
will killus? And what would you get by killing us?
And what must we do to prevent your killing us?
Must we kill you, or will you kill us? Why will you
put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins :"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spa-
niard's making a jest of it, that had he not been
held by three men, and withal had no weapons
with him, it was thought he would have attempted
to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the
company.
This harebrained carriage obliged them to con-
sider seriously what was to be done. The two Eng-
lishmen and the Spaniard who saved the poor sa-
vage, were of the opinion that they should hang
one of the three for an example to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet;
and indeed there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the poor savage was in such a mi-
serable condition with the wound he had received,
that it was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, no, it was
an Englishman that had saved all their lives, and
he would never consent to put an Englisman to
death though he had murdered half of them: nay,
he said if he had been killed himself by an English-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that
they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the gover-
nor Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying it; and
as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, where
they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came in-
to it; but then it was to be considered what should
be done to keep them from the mischief they de-
signed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means
were to be used for preserving the society from
danger. After a long debate it was agreed, first,
that they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or
any weapon, and should be turned out of the so-
ciety, and left to live where they would, and how
they could by themselves; but that none of the
rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse
with them, speak with them, or have any thing to
do with them; that they should be forbid to come
within a certain distance of the place where the .
rest dwelt; and that if they offered to commit any
disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any
of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle
belonging to the society, that they should die
without mercy, and would shoot them wherever
they could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing
upon the sentence, considered a little upon it, and
turning to the two honest Englishmen, said, “Hold,
you must reflect, that it will be long ere they can
raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must
not starve: we must therefore allow them provi-
sions.” So he caused to be added, that they should
have a proportion of corn given them to last them
eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time
they might be supposed to raise some of their own;
that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats,
and six kids given them, as well for present sub-
sistence as for a store; and that they should have
tools given them for their work in the field; such
as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but
they should have none of these tools or provisions
unless they would swear solemnly that they would
not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them,
or of their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turn-
ed them out to shift for themselves. They went
away sullen and refractory, as neither contented to
go away or to stay; but as there was no remedy
they went, pretending to go and choose a place
where they should settle themselves, to plant and
live by themselves; and some provisions were
given them, but no weapons.
About four or five days after they came again

for some victuals, and gave the governor an ac-
count where they had pitched their tents, and
marked themselves out an habitation or plantation:
it was a very convenient place indeed, on the
remotest part of the island, N. E. much about the
place where I providentially landed in my first
voyage when I was driven out to sea, the Lord .
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sur-
round the island. -
Here they built themselves two handsome huts,
and contrived them in a manner like my first ha-
bitation, being close under the side of a hill, ha-
ving some trees growing already to the three sides
of it; so that by planting others it would be very
easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly
searched for. They desired some dry goat-skins
for beds and covering, which were given them;
and upon their giving their words that they would
not disturb the rest, or injure any of their planta-
tions, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,
for sowing, and, in a word, any thing they want-
ed but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six
months, and had got in their first harvest, though
the quantity was but small, the parcel of land they
had planted being but little; for indeed having all
their plantation to form, they had a great deal of
work upon their hands; and when they came to
make boards, and pots, and such things, they were
quite out of their element, and could make nothing
of it; and when the rainy season came on, for want
of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their
grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much; so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did; and in four days worked a great
hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things from the rain;
but it was but a poor place at best compared to
mine; and especially as mine was then; for the
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made se-
veral new apartments in it.
About three quarters of a year after this sepa-
ration, a new frolic took these rogues, which, to-
gether with the former villainy they had commit-
ted, brought mischief enough upon them, and had
very near been the ruin of the whole colony. The
three new associates began, it seems, to be weary
of the laborious life they led, and that without hope
of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they would make a voyage to the conti-
nent from whence the savages came, and would try
if they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to
make them do the laborious part of the work for
them.
The project was not so preposterous if they had
gone no farther; but they did nothing and pro-
posed nothing but had either mischief in the de-
sign, or mischief in the event; and if I may give
my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to
pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with divine justice? It was cer-
tainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of
mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state
they were in; and as they shewed not the least
remorse for the crime, but added new villanies to
it, such as particularly that piece of monstrous
cruelty of wounding a poor slave because he did
not, or perhaps could not understand to do what he
was directed, and to wound him in such a manner
as, no question, made him a cripple all his life, and
in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
had for his cure; and what was still worse, the
murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime,
the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was,
as was afterwards the formed design they all laid to
murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story:
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one
morning, and in very humble terms desired to be
admitted to speak with them: the Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to say, which was this,
that they were tired of living in the manner they
did, that they were not handy enough to make the
necessaries they wanted, and that having no help,
they found they should be starved; but if the Spa-
niards would give them leave to take one of the
canoes which they came over in, and give them
arms and ammunition proportioned for their de-
fence, they would go over to the main, and seek
their fortune, and so deliver them from the trou-
ble of supplying them with any other provisions. .
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of
them; but yet very honestly represented to them
the certain destruction they were running into;
told them they had suffered such hardships upon
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit
of prophecy, tell them, that they would be starved
or murdered, and bade them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be
starved if they stayed here, for they could not
work, and would not work: and they could but be
starved abroad; and if they were murdered, there
was an end of them, they had no wives or chil-
dren to cry after them, and, in short, insisted im-
portunately upon their demand, declaring that they
would go, whether they would give them any arms
or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness,
that if they were resolved to go, they should not
go like naked men, and be in no condition to de-
fend themselves, and that though they could ill
spare their fire-arms, having not enough for them-
selves, yet they would let them have two muskets,
a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet,
which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having
baked them bread enough to serve them a month,
and given them as much goat's flesh as they could
eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of
dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young
kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for
a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty
miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would
have very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and
therefore was rather too big for them to manage;
but as they had a fair breeze and the flood-tide
with them, they did well enough; they had made
a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-
skins dried, which they had sewed or laced to-
gether; and away they went merrily enough; the
Spaniards called after them, “Bon veajo;” and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another,
and the two honest Englishmen who remained be-
hind, how quietly and comfortably they lived now
those three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their ever coming again, that was the remotest
thing from their thoughts, could be imagined;
when, behold, after twenty-two days absence, one
of the Englishmen being abroad upon his planting
work, sees three strange men coming towards him
at a distance, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was be-
witched, and came frighted and amazed, to the
governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all un-
done, for there were strangers handed upon the
island, he could not tell who. The Spaniard pau-
sing a while, says to him, “How do you mean, you
cannot tell who They are savages to be sure.”
“No, no,” says the Englishman, “they are men
in clothes, with arms.”—“Nay then,” says the
Spaniard, “why are you concerned 2 If they are
not savages, they must be friends; for there is no
Christian nation upon earth but will do us good ra-
ther than harm.
While they were debating thus, came the three
Englishmen, and standing without the wood which
was new-planted, hallooed to them; they presently
knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that
kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned
upon another question, viz. What could be the
matter, and what made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in;
and inquiring where they had been, and what they
- had been doing? they gave them a full account
of their voyage in a few words, viz. that they
reached the land in two days, or something less,
but finding the people alarmed at their coming,
and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them,
they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the
northward six or seven hours, till they came to a
great opening, by which they perceived that the
land they saw from our island was not the main,
but an island: that entering that opening of the
sea, they saw another island on the right hand
north, and several more west; and being resolved
to land somewhere, they put over to one of the
islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore;
that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots,
and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable:
and the women, as well as the men, were very for-
ward to supply them with any thing they could get
for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way
upon their heads. -
They continued here four days, and inquired, as
well as they could of them by signs, what nations
were this way, and that way; and were told of se-
veral fierce and terrible people, that lived almost
every way; who, as they made known by signs to
them, used to eat men; but as for themselves, they
said, that they never ate men or women, except
only such as they took in the wars; and then they
owned that they made a great feast, and ate their
prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast
of that kind, and they told them two moons ago,
pointing to the moon, and then to two fingers; and
that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were
feeding them to make them fat for the next feast.
The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see
those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them
to carry away for their own eating, So they
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify,
that the next morning at sunrising they would
bring some for them; and accordingly the next
morning they brought down five women and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry
with them on their voyage, just as we would bring
so many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to
victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were
at home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and
they did not know what to do; to refuse the pri-
soners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that offered them; and what to do
with them they knew not; however, upon some
debate, they resolved to accept of them; and in
return they gave the savages that brought them
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets, which, though they did
not understand, they seemed extremely pleased
with; and then tying the poor creatures’ hands be-
hind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners
into the boat for our men. -
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as
soon as they had them, or else they that gave them
this noble present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them,
have killed two or three of them the next morning,
and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner.
But having taken their leave with all the respect
and thanks that could well pass between people,
where, on either side, they understood not one word
they could say, they put off with their boat, and
came back towards the first island, where when they
arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty,
there being too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some
communication with their prisoners, but it was im-
3
possible to make them understand any thing; no-
thing they could say to them, or give them, or do for
them, but was looked upon as going about to murder
them: they first of all unbound them, but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the women,
as if they had just felt the knife at their throats;
for they immediately concluded they were un-
bound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the
same thing; then they concluded it was for feam
they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough
to kill; if they looked at one of them more par-
ticularly, the party presently concluded it was to
see whether he or she was fattest and fittest to kill
first; nay, after they had brought them quite
over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them
well, still they expected every day to make a din-
ner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unac-
countable history or journal of their voyage, the
Spaniard asked them where their new family was
And being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were
come to beg some victuals for them; they (the
Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is
to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down
to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's
father with them.
WOL. II. u
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore
they bound their hands, that they might not take
the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were
three men, lusty, comely fellows, well shaped,
straight and fair limbs, about thirty or thirty-five
years of age, and five women; whereof two might
be from thirty to forty, two more not above twen-
ty-four or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall comely
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women
were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in
shape and features, only tawny; and two of them,
had they been perfect white, would have passed
for handsome women, even in London itself, having
very pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a
very modest behaviour, especially when they came
afterwards to be clothed, and dressed, as they call-
ed it, though that dress was very indifferent, it
must be confessed; of which hereafter.
The sight, you may be sure, was something un-
couth to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a
just character) men of the best behaviour, of the
most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good hu-
mour that ever I met with; and, in particular, of
the most modesty, as will presently appear: I say
the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men
and five naked women, all together bound, and in
10
the most miserable circumstances that human na-
ture could be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting
every moment to be dragged out, and have their
brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old In-
dian, Friday’s father, to go in and see first if he
knew any of them, and then if he understood any
of their speech. As soon as the old man came in,
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of
them; neither could any of them understand a
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one
of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end,
which was to satisfy them, that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they
abhorred eating of men or women, and that they
might be sure they would not be killed. As soon
as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward and several ways as is
hard to describe, for it seems they were of several
nations.
The woman who was their interpreter was bid,
in the next place, to ask them if they were willing
to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away to save their lives At which
they all fell a-dancing; and presently one fell to
taking up this, and another that, any thing that lay
next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that
they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having wo-
men among them would presently be attended
with some inconveniency, and might occasion
some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three
men what they intended to do with these women,
and how they intended to use them, whether as ser-
vants, or as women One of the Englishmen an-
swered very boldly and readily, that they would
use them as both. To which the governor said,
“I am not going to restrain you from it; you are
your own masters as to that: but this I think is
but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among
you, and I desire it of you for that reason only,
viz. that you will all engage, that if any of you
take any of these women as a woman, or wife, he
shall take but one; and that, having taken one,
none else should touch her; for though we cannot
marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable, that
while you stay here, the woman any of you takes
should be maintained by the man that takes her,
and should be his wife; “I mean,” says he, “while
he continues here; and that none else should have
any thing to do with her.” All this appeared so
just, that every one agreed to it without any diffi-
culty. -
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if
they designed to take any of them But every One
answered, “No:” some of them said they had
wives in Spain; and the others did not like women
that were not Christians; and all together decla-
red, that they would not touch one of them; which
was an instance of such virtue as I have not met
with in all my travels. On the other hand, to be
short, the five Englishmen took them every one a
wife; that is to say, a temporary wife; and so
they set up a new form of living; for the Spa-
niards and Friday's father lived in my old habita-
tion, which they had enlarged exceedingly within;
the three servants, which they had taken in the
late battle of the savages, lived with them; and
these carried on the main part of the colony, sup-
plying all the rest with food, and assisting them in
any thing as they could, or as they found necessity
required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such
refractory, ill-matched fellows, should agree about
these women, and that two of them should not
pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison, more
agreeable than the others: but they took a goo
way enough to prevent quarrelling among then
selves; for they set the five women by themselves
in one of their huts, and they went all into the
other hut, and drew lots among them who should
choose first.
He that drew to choose first, went away by him-
self to the hut where the poor naked creatures
were, and fetched out her he chose ; and it was
worth observing, that he that chose first took her
that was reckoned the homeliest and the oldest of
the five, which made mirth enough among the rest;
and even the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fel-
low considered better than any of them, that it was
application and business that they were to expect
assistance in as much as any thing else, and she
proved the best wife in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves in a row
thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of
their condition returned upon them again, and they
firmly believed that they were now going to be de-
voured: accordingly, when the English sailor came
in and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a
most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took
their leave of her with such agonies and such af.
fection as would have grieved the hardest heart in
the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen
to satisfy them that they were not to be imme-
diately murdered, till they fetched the old man,
Friday's father, who instantly let them know, that
the five men who had fetched them out one by one,
had chosen them for their wives.
When they had done this, and the fright the wo-
men were in was a little over, the men went to
work, and the Spaniards came and helped them;
and in a few hours they had built them every one
a new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those
they had already were crowded with their tools,
household-stuff, and provisions. The three wicked
ones had pitched farthest off, and the two ho-
nest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of
the island, so that they continued separate as be-
fore: and thus my island was peopled in three
places, and, as I might say, three towns were be-
gun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that
as it often happens in the world (what the wise
ends of God's providences are in such a disposition
of things I cannot say), the two honest fellows had
the two worst wives; and the three reprobates that
were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for no-
thing, and neither seemed born to do themselves
good, or any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives; not that the two first
were ill wives as to their temper or humour; for all
the five were most willing, quiet, passive, and sub-
jected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but
my meaning is, they were not alike capable, inge-
nious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour
of a diligent application on the one hand, and to
the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on
the other, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, planting, and
management of the several little colonies, the two
men had so far outgone the three, that there was no
comparison; they had indeed both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted;
and the reason was, because, according to my rule,
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow
more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and
indeed every thing else, was easy to be seen at
first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees
planted about their huts, that when you came to
the place nothing was to be seen but a wood; and
though they had their plantation twice demolished,
once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, as shall be shewn in its place; yet they had
restored all again, and every thing was flourishing
and thriving about them : they had grapes planted
in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
had themselves never seen any thing of that kind;
and by their good ordering their vines, their grapes
were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thick-
est part of the woods, where, though there was not
a natural cave, as I had found, yet they made one
with incessant labour of their hands, and where,
when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children so as they could
never be found; they having, by sticking innu-
merable stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I
said, grew so easily, made a grove impassable ex-
cept in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part, and then went in by ways of
their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them,
though they were much civilized by their new set-
tlement compared to what they were before, and
were not so quarrelsome, having not the same op-
portunity, yet one of the certain companions of a
profligate mind never left them, and that was their
idleness. It is true, they planted corn, and made
fences; but Solomon's words were never better ve-
rified than in them: “I went by the vineyard of
the slothful, and it was overgrown with thorns;”
for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds; the
hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats
had gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here
and there a dead bush was crammed in to stop
them out for the present, but it was only shutting
the stable-door after the steed was stolen; whereas,
when they looked on the colony of the other two,
there was the very face of industry and success
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen
in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's
words in another place: “ The diligent hand ma-
keth rich;” for every thing grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had
more tame cattle than the others, more utensils
and necessaries within doors, and yet more plea-
sure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy
and cleanly within doors; and having learnt the
English ways of dressing and cooking from one of
the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's
mate on board the ship, they dressed their hus-
bands' victuals very nicely; whereas the other could
not be brought to understand it; but then the hus-
band, who, as I said, had been cook's mate, did
it himself; but as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and
caught fish and birds; in a word, any thing but la-
bour, and they fared accordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived
hard and beggarly; and so I believe, generally
speaking, it is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene different from all
that had happened before, either to them or me;
and the origin of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore five or
six canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which
you please; and there is no room to doubt that they
came upon the old errand of feeding upon their
slaves; but that part was now so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not
concern themselves about it as I did; but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their
only business was to lie concealed, and that, if they
were not seen by any of the savages, they would
go off again quietly when their business was done,
having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been
made sensible of this, they had nothing to do but
to give notice to all the three plantations to keep
within doors, and not to shew themselves; only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice
when the boats went off to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a dis-
aster spoiled all these measures, and made it known
among the savages, that there were inhabitants
there, which was, in the end, the desolation of al-
most the whole colony. After the canoes with the
savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad
again, and some of them had the curiosity to go to
the place where they had been, to see what they
had been doing. Here, to their great surprise,
they found three savages left behind, and lying
fast asleep upon the gound; it was supposed they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman feast,
that, like beasts, they were asleep, and would not
stir when the others went, or they were wandered
into the woods, and did not come back in time to
be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this
sight, and perfectly at a loss what to do; the Spa-
niard governor, as it happened, was with them, and
his advice was asked; but he professed he knew
not what to do; as for slaves, they had enough al-
ready; and as to killing them, they were none of
them inclined to that. The Spaniard governor
told me they could not think of shedding innocent
blood; for as to them, the poor creatures had done
no wrong, invaded none of their property, and
they thought they had no just quarrel against them
to take away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards,
observe, that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never
met with seventeen men, of any nation whatsoever,
in any foreign country, who were so universally
modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humour-
ed, and so courteous as these Spaniards; and, as
to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very na-
ture; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous
passions, and yet all of them men of great courage
and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the insufferable usage of the three English-
men; and their justice and humanity appeared now
in the case of the savages as above. After some
consultation they resolved upon this, that they
would lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these
three men might be gone; but then the governor
Spaniard recollected, that the three savages had no
boat; and that if they were left to rove about the
island, they would certainly discover that there
were inhabitants in it, and so they should be un-
done that way.
Upon this they went back again, and there lay
the fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to
awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they
did so. The poor fellows were strangely frighted
when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and
eaten; for it seems those people think all the world
do as they do, eating men's flesh; but they were
soon made easy as to that: and away they carried
them.
It was very happy for them that they did not
carry them home to their castle; I mean to my pa-
lace under the hill: but they carried them first to
the bower, where was the chief of their country
work: such as the keeping the goats, the planting
the corn, &c.; and afterwards they carried them to
the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not
much they had for them to do; and whether it
was by negligence in guarding them, or that they
thought the fellows could not mend themselves,
I know not, but one of them ran away, and ta-
king into the woods, they could never hear of him
more.
They had good reason to believe he got home
again soon after in some other boats or canoes of
savages, who came on shore three or four weeks
afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels as
usual, went off again in two days time. This
thought terrified them exceedingly; for they con-
cluded, and that not without good cause indeed,
that if this fellow got safe home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account
that there were people in the island, as also how
weak and few they were; for this savage, as I ob-
served before, had never been told, as it was very
happy he had not, how many they were, or where
they lived, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire
of any of their guns, much less had they shewn
him any other of their retired places, such as the
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the
two Englishmen had made, and the like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow
had given intelligence of them was, that about two
months after this six canoes of savages, with about
seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came row-
ing along the north side of the island, where they
never used to come before, and landed about an
hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a
mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen,
where this escaped man had been kept. As the
Spaniard governor said, had they been all there
the damage would not have been so much, for not
a man of them would have escaped: but the case
differed now very much; for two men to fifty were
too much odds. The two men had the happiness
to discover them about a league off, so that it was
above an hour before they landed, and as they
landed about a mile from their huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now ha-
ving great reason to believe that they were betray-
ed, the first thing they did was to bind the slaves
which were left, and cause two of the three men
whom they brought with the women, who, it seems,
proved very faithful to them, to lead them with
their two wives, and whatever they could carry
away with them, to their retired place in the
woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to
bind the two fellows hand and foot till they heard
farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all
come on shore, and that they bent their course di-
rectly that way, they opened the fences where their
milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out,
leaving their goats to straggle into the wood, whi-
ther they pleased, that the savages might think
they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came
with them was too cunning for that, and gave them
an account of it all, for they went directly to the
place.
When the poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they
had of the three, who came with the women, and
who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm,
and desire speedy help; and in the mean time they
took their arms, and what ammunition they had,
and retreated towards the place in the wood where
their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet so
that they might see, if possible, which way the sa-
vages took.
They had not gone far but that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their ene-
mies come on directly to their habitation, and in a
moment more could see all their huts and house-
hold-stuff flaming up together, to their great grief
and mortification; for they had a very great loss,
and to them irretrievable, at least for some time.
5
They kept their station for a while, till they found
the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all
aver the place, rummaging every way, and every
place they could think of, in search for prey, and
in particular for the people, of whom it plainly ap-
peared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, so
they might come too many together, thought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile
farther, believing, as it afterwards happened, that
the farther they strolled, the fewer would be to-
gether.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very
thick grown part of the woods, and where an old
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly
large; and in this tree they both took their stand-
ing, resolving to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the
savages appeared running directly that way, as if
they had already notice where they stood, and were
coming up to attack them; and a little way far-
ther they espied three more coming after them,
and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word,
vol. ii. - x
they ran every way, like sportsmen beating for
their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whe-
ther they should stand and keep their posture, or
fly; but after a very short debate with themselves,
they considered, that if the savages ranged the
country thus before help came, they might, per-
haps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then
all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then
they would get to the top of the tree, from whence
they doubted not to defend themselves, fire except-
ed, as long as their ammunition lasted, though all
the savages that were landed, which were near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered
whether they should fire at the two first, or wait
for the three, and so take the middle party, by
which the two and the five that followed would be
separated: at length they resolved to let the two
first pass by, unless they should spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them. The two first sa-
vages also confirmed them in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of
the wood; but the three, and the five after them,
came forwards' directly to the tree, as if they had
known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so ºst towards them,
they resolved to take them in a line as they came;
and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, per-
haps the first shot might hit them all three; to
which purpose, the man who was to fire put three
or four bullets into his piece, and having a fair
loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the
tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, wait-
ing till they were within about thirty yards of the
tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages
came on, they plainly saw, that one of the three
was the runaway savage that had escaped from
them, and they both knew him distinctly, and re-
solved that, if possible, he should not escape,
though they should both fire; so the other stood
ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a marksman to miss
his aim; for as the savages kept near one another,
a little behind in a line, in a word he fired, and hit
two of them directly; the foremost was killed out-
right, being shot in the head; the second, which
was the runaway Indian, was shot through the
body and fell, but was not quite dead; and the
third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the same ball that went through the body of
the second; and being dreadfully frighted, though
not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, scream-
ing and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with
the noise than sensible of their danger, stood still
at first; for the woods made the sound a thousand
times bigger than it really was; the echoes rat-
tling from one side to another, and the fowls rising
from all parts, screaming and making, every sort,
a several kind of noise, according to their kind,
just as it was when I fired the first gun that, per-
haps, was ever shot off in that place since it was
an island.
However, all being silent again, and they not
knowing what the matter was, came on unconcern-
ed, till they came to that place where their com-
panions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and
here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that
they were within reach of the same mischief, stood
all of a huddle over the wounded man, talking,
and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he
came to be hurt; and who, it is very rational to
believe, told them that a flash of fire first, and im-
mediately after that thunder from their gods, had
killed those two, and wounded him. This, I say,
is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, so they had never
heard a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard
of a gun; neither knew they any thing of killing
or wounding at a distance with fire and bullets; if
they had, one might reasonably believe that they
would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing
the fate of their fellows without some apprehension
of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me
it grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor
creatures, who at the same time had no motion of
their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again,
resolved to let fly both together among them, and
singling out by agreement which to aim at, they
shot together, and killed, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our
men, seeing them all fall together, thought they
had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made
our two men come boldly out from the tree before
they had charged their guns again, which was a
wrong step, and they were under some surprise
when they came to the place, and found no less
than four of the men alive, and of them two very
little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them
to fall upon them with the stocks of their mus-
kets; and first they made sure of the runaway sa-
vage that had been the cause of all the mischief,
and of another that was hurt in his knee, and put
them out of their pain. Then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them
with his two hands held up, and made piteous
moan to them by gestures and signs for his life,
but could not say one word to them that they
could understand.
However, they signified to him to sit down at
the foot of a tree thereby; and one of the English-
men, with a piece of rope-twine which he had by
great chance in his pocket, tied his feet fast toge-
ther, and his hands behind him, and there they
left him; and with what speed they could make
after the other two which were gone before, fear-
ing they, or any more of them, should find the
way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay.
They came once in sight of the two men, but it
was at a great distance; however, they had the
satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards
the sea, the quite contrary way from that which
led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and
being satisfied with that, they went back to the
tree where they left their prisoner, who as they
supposed was delivered by his comrades; for he
was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn with
which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of
the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before,
not knowing what course to take, or how near
the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so
they resolved to go away to the place where their
wives were, to see if all was well there, and to
make them easy, who were in fright enough to
be sure; for though the savages were their own
country-folks, yet they were most terribly afraid
of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge
they had of them. -
When they came thither, they found the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place,
but had not found it; for indeed it was inaccessible,
by the trees standing so thick, as before, unless
the persons seeking it had been directed by those
that knew it, which these were not; they found,
therefore, every thing very safe, only the women
in a terrible fright. While they were here they
had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance: the other ten with their ser-
vants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's father,
were gone in a body to defend their bower, and
the corn and cattle that were kept there, in case
the savages should have roved over to that side of
the country; but they did not spread so far. With
the seven Spaniards came one of the savages, who,
as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with
them also came the savage whom the Englishmen
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it
seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of
the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought
him along with them, where, however, they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had done the
two others, who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them;
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that
they thought they were under an absolute neces-
sity to kill them for their own preservation: how-
ever, the Spaniard governor would not consent to
it; but ordered, that they should be sent out of
the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there, with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food: which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy
themselves to stay any longer there; but taking
five of the Spaniards, and themselves, with four
muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout
quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the
savages. And first, they came to the tree where
the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy
to see that some more of the savages had been
there; for they attempted to carry their dead men
away, and had dragged two of them a good way,
but had given it over; from thence they advanced
to the first rising ground, where they had stood and
seen their camp destroyed, and where they had the
mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither could they here see any of the savages:
they then resolved, though with all possible cau-
tion, to go forward towards their ruined planta-
tion; but a little before they came thither, coming
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the sa-
vages all embarking again in their canoes, in order
to be gone.
They seemed sorry at first that there was no
way to come at them to give them a parting blow;
but upon the whole were very well satisfied to be
rid of them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined,
and all their improvements destroyed, the rest all
agreed to come and help them to rebuild, and to
assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having
the least inclination to do any thing good, yet, as
soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote,
knew nothing till all was over.) came and offered
their help and assistance, and did very friendly
work for several days to restore their habitations,
and make necessaries for them; and thus in a little
time they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this, they had the farther
satisfaction of seeing three of the savages canoes
come driving on shore, and at some distance from
them, with two drowned men; by which they had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm
at sea, which had overset some of them, for it blew
very hard the night after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so on the
other hand enough of them escaped to inform the
rest, as well of what they had done, as of what
happened to them; and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature, which they, it seems,
resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to carry
all before them; for except what the first man had ".
told them of inhabitants, they could say little to it
of their own knowledge; for they ºver saw one
man, and the fellow being killed that had affirmed
it, they had no other witnesses to confirm it to
them.
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME,
Edi N BURGH t
Printed by James Ballantyne & Co.

